^f^rnm 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 28, 1969 

2 3 9 2 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 28, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
' , r . ; j 
.•. 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Messrs. Doyle and Noble of the Legal Division 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Burton of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2393 
7/28/69 
-2-
Ratifications of actions. Actions taken at a meeting of the 
available members of the Board on Friday, July 25, 1969, as recorded in 
the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous vote. 
Competitive factor report. During consideration of a report 
to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of The West Unity Banking Company, West Unity, 
Ohio, into The Citizens National Bank of Bryan, Bryan, Ohio, question 
was raised by Governor Maisel whether certain interlocking relation-
ships among the two aforementioned banks and another bank in a nearby 
community might not constitute a situation contrary to the antitrust 
laws. 
In the circumstances, the staff was requested to submit addi-
tional information that would be helpful in deciding on the type of 
report that should appropriately be rendered. 
Definitions used in competitive factor reports. The Board 
had recently released as public information the definitions used by 
it in competitive factor reports to describe the effects of a proposed 
merger or similar transaction. It had now been suggested by the staff 
that a list of the definitions be attached to each report rendered to 
the other Federal bank supervisory agencies. 
After consideration of the suggestion, Board members concluded 
that it would seem unnecessary to attach a list of the definitions to 
each report. However, it was agreed that at the end of each report a 

2 3 9 4 
7/28/69 
-3-
Federal Register citation might be given, and it was understood that a 
list of the definitions would be furnished in response to any inquiry. 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation. On February 24, 
1969, the Board considered, but did not reach a decision with respect to, 
a request from The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, a foreign 
banking corporation, for certain determinations under the Bank Holding 
Company Act. Briefly, in addition to the ownership of a number of 
foreign banking interests and also interests in nonbanking concerns both 
abroad and in the United States, the corporation owned the stock of a 
nonmember commercial bank located in the State of California and operated 
agencies in New York and California. For reasons related to tax consi-
derations, it desired to incorporate the New York agency as an "invest-
ment company." The investment company would engage in substantially 
the same kind of business as was being conducted by the agency; like 
the agency, it would maintain for the account of others credit balances 
incidental to or arising out of the exercise of its lawful powers. 
The determinations that The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation had asked the Board to make were as follows: (1) that it 
was not presently a bank holding company as defined in the Bank Holding 
Company Act; (2) that it would not become a bank holding company if it 
converted the New York agency into a wholly-owned corporate subsidiary; 
and (3) that prior approval of the Board would not be required for the 
formation of the proposed subsidiary. If the foregoing rulings were 

2395 
7/28/69 
-4-
granted, the Board was asked to determine what kind of deposits the 
new corporation could accept from what sources without causing its 
parent to become a bank holding company. 
A crucial question was whether the aforementioned credit 
balances should be deemed to constitute deposits within the meaning 
of the Bank Holding Company Act; if so, incorporation of the New York 
agency would cause the parent company to become a bank holding company 
under that Act. Under New York State law a distinction was made between 
credit balances and deposits, and the legal staff of the New York Reserve 
Bank believed that a dis tinction also could be made in considering the 
request of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation. However, the 
Board's Legal Division concluded that the credit balances must be 
regarded as the equivalent of deposits for purposes of the Federal law. 
Since the February 24 meeting there had been made available 
to the members of the Board documentation received from the Reserve 
Bank pertinent to the foregoing question. In a memorandum dated 
June 12, 1969, in which the whole matter was reviewed in some detail, 
the Board's Legal Division advised that both the Board's staff and the 
New York Bank continued to adhere to their original interpretations. 
As to a possible alternative procedure that the applicant 
corporation might want to consider, that is, the formation of an 
"agreement" corporation under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
it was pointed out in the Legal Division's memorandum and in a memorandum 

£ 3 9 6 
i. 
7/28/69 
-5-
of July 11, 1969, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation that 
the corporation's subsidiary bank in California would have to become a 
member bank. Furthermore, the Board would have to determine as a policy 
matter that the shareholder citizenship requirement prescribed by 
statute for Edge corporations need not be considered applicable in the 
case of agreement corporations. 
The Legal Division continued to recommend that the Board adopt 
the following position: (1) that the credit balances held by the 
New York agency of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
constituted deposits within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act; 
(2) that conversion of the agency into a corporation would cause the 
parent to become a bank holding company; (3) that such a transaction 
could not be consummated without prior Board approval; and (4) that such 
approval would be precluded by section 3(d) of the Act. 
Ancillary to the immediate issue was the question presented 
by the fact that in 1956 the Board had advised the Belgian-American 
Banking Corporation and the J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation, each 
of which were investment companies in the State of New York that held 
credit balances, that they were not considered banks within the meaning 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. Thus, if the Board ruled in the matter 
now before it along the lines recommended by the Legal Division, it 
appeared that the status of the aforementioned corporations might be 
affected. 

Z317 
7/28/69 
-6-
All of the aspects of the matter that had been alluded to in 
the documentation placed before the Board were reviewed at today's 
meeting. From the comments made by Board members, there appeared to be 
an inclination to regard the recommendations of the Legal Division as 
reflecting a correct interpretation of the law. However, there was 
also a disposition against reaching and implementing a final decision 
at this particular juncture. That attitude took into account primarily 
two considerations. First, it was thought that The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation should have an opportunity to submit addi-
tional views and comments, if it so desired, in the light of advice as 
to the staff conclusions that the Board had under consideration. Also, 
this might lead into discussion of the availability and feasibility of 
possible alternative procedures through which the results desired by 
the corporation might be accomplished. Second, it appeared that if the 
recommendations of the Legal Division were adopted it would be almost 
obligatory to reexamine the status of the Belgian-American Banking 
Corporation and the J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation. In this 
connection, it was understood that since 1956 there may have been changes 
in the organizational structures and operations of those organizations, 
but the details were not available at this time. Accordingly, Board 
members concluded that it would be helpful, before proceeding further, 
to have from those organizations not only factual statements but also 

7/28/69 
-7-
such views and comments as they might care to submit against the back-
ground of the staff findings that the Board seemed likely to adopt. 
In the circumstances, it was decided to address appropriate 
letters to the three corporations and, as a next step, to review the 
entire situation again in the light of their responses. Attached as 
Items 1, 2, and 3 are copies of the letters sent to The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation, European-American Banking Corporation 
(successor to Belgian-American Banking Corporation), and J. Henry 
Schroder Banking Corporation in furtherance of the procedure decided 
upon by the Board. Copies of the respective letters were sent to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York for its information. 
Special drawing rights. Governor Daane presented informally 
a summary of negotiations in which he had been participating with respect 
to the issuance of special drawing rights (SDR's) and commented on the 
likely course of events from this point forward. 
After responding to several questions raised by other members 
of the Board, Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting, as did 
Mr. Solomon (Adviser to the Board). 
Pan American Bancshares. The Board had previously given its 
approval to an application by Pan American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, 
Florida, for permission to take certain actions that would cause it to 
become a bank holding company. Apparently for reason of tax considera-
tions, a change had now been proposed in the method by which Atico 

7/28/69 
-8-
Financial Corporation would distribute to its shareholders the stock 
of Pan American Bancshares to be received in exchange for bank stock 
presently owned by Atico. 
After the Board's staff had indicated, in response to a question, 
that the proposed change in procedure would, had it been known earlier, 
not have caused the staff to alter its favorable recommendation with 
respect to the original application, unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to Pan American Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida, in the form 
attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with restricted staff 
attendance. 
Philadelphia salary structure. Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia approving, as 
requested, a revision of the minimums and maximums for the respective 
grades of the salary structure applicable to the Bank's employees, 
effective August 4, 1969. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
General pay increases. Mr. Johnson called to the Board's 
attention an apparently spreading tendency on the part of Federal 
Reserve Banks to grant general pay increases to their employees. Such 
a practice was not precluded by outstanding instructions to the Banks 
as long as they operated within the limitations imposed by salary 
structures approved by the Board. Not only, however, did the prospect 
of general pay increases generate pressure for revision of the salary 

2400 
7/28/69 
-9-
schedules but the practice appeared to be somewhat at odds with the 
concept under which the ranges for the grades to which positions were 
assigned were determined on the basis of community wage surveys. 
In response to questions, Mr. Johnson suggested that one 
approach to the problem would be for the Board to direct its staff to 
work with the Federal Reserve Banks in the development of guidelines, 
either formal or informal, according to which, in given circumstances, 
it could be judged whether a general pay increase was justified. It 
would be his preference to keep the negotiations informal in character. 
Board members' comments reflected concurrence in the view 
that an untoward resort to the use of general pay increases should be 
resisted and that the granting of such increases should be restricted 
to situations where unusual circumstances prevailed. At the same time, 
members recognized that pressures for the granting of general pay 
increases were likely to continue to be severe, particularly in an 
economic setting in which inflationary influences were strong. 
After some discussion the problem was referred to the Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans for further study 
and recommendation. 
Annex building. In view of indications that the Board's staff, 
particularly in the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the 
Division of Data Processing, might have increased more than earlier 
contemplated by the time the Board's annex building was ready for 

2401 
7/28/69 
-10-
occupancy, Mr. Shepardson had outlined in a memorandum to Governor 
Sherrill of July 23, 1969, two possibilities for augmenting the amount 
of office space available in the building. 
The first possibility, which was regarded as unattractive and 
in any event seemed unlikely to win approval from the National Capital 
Planning Commission and the Fine Arts Commission, involved the addition 
of one bay (30 feet) to each end of the building. The other possibility, 
which seemed relatively more attractive, involved enclosure of the 
podium level out to the column line. The expense entailed in making 
such a change in the building plans at this juncture would of course 
be much less than if the project were undertaken at a later time. On 
balance, however, Mr. Shepardson recommended against making the change 
in the plans. 
Governor Sherrill indicated that after giving a great deal of 
thought to the matter he was inclined to follow Mr. Shepardson's recom-
mendation. 
After discussion the other members of the Board agreed unanimously 
with the view that no change should be made in the plans along the lines 
that had been mentioned. 
In his memorandum Mr. Shepardson also dealt with costs involved 
in designing and developing the park over the so-called north garage 
and the park over the east triangle garage. As to the park over the 
north garage, it had been contemplated originally that the Board's 

2402 
7/28/69 
-11-
architect would design the park and that the Board would reimburse the 
National Park Service for half of the cost of developing and constructing 
the park. Subsequently, it had been agreed that it would be preferable 
for the Board to include the construction of the park in its general 
building contract, with the Park Service to reimburse the Board for 
half of the cost. As to the park over the east triangle garage, the 
Board had agreed to have its architect design the park and to include as 
part of the building cost the fountain, sidewalk, and adjacent area 
between the fountain and the Board's east property line, with the Park 
Service constructing and developing the portion east of the fountain. 
However, it was now proposed that the Board include the entire east 
triangle park in its construction contract, with the Park Service to 
reimburse the Board for its portion. 
Conforming amendments to the existing agreements with the 
Department of the Interior and the Park Service had been prepared and 
tentatively agreed upon, but the Park Service had made known that its 
agreement to reimburse the Board would be subject to the availability 
of appropriated funds for the purpose. As of July 1968, estimates of 
the costs involved were $235,000 for half of the park over the north 
garage and $30,000 for the Park Service's portion of the east park. 
Mr. Shepardson recommended that the proposed amendments to the 
existing agreements be authorized by the Board. 

1-
7/28/69 
-12-
. •• % • 
Pursuant to Mr. Shepardson's recommendation, the Board authorized 
the amendments. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary 

2 4 0 4 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/28/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 29, 1969 
Appleton, Rice & Perrin, 
1819 H Street, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 20006 
Attention: Duncan H. Cameron, Esq. 
Re: The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Dear Sirs: 
This refers to your letter of July 9, 1968, and to letters 
from the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation ("the Bank") dated 
July 3 and July 12, 1968, requesting of the Board certain rulings with 
respect to the applicability of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
("the Act"), 12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq., to the Bank's proposed forma-
tion of a wholly-owned corporation to take over the business of the 
Bank's New York Agency. 
After study of the facts and questions presented on behalf 
of the Bank and consideration of the language, structure, legislative 
history, and purposes of the relevant statutory provisions, the Board's 
Legal Division has concluded and has recommended to the Board that it 
take the position that: 
(1) the Bank controls, for purposes of the Act, 25 per cent 
or more of the stock of only one bank (The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation of California) and, therefore, is not currently 
a bank holding company under the Act; 
(2) "credit balances" are "deposits" within the meaning of 
the Act, whether in the accounts of the N.Y. Agency or of the pro-
posed corporation; 
(3) reorganizing the N.Y. Agency into a separate corporation, 
and ownership by the Bank of all of the stock of that corporation, would 
cause the Bank to become a bank holding company, because the Bank would 

£405 
Appleton, Rice & Perrin 
-2-
then own 25 per cent or more of the voting stock of each of two insti-
tutions that accept deposits that the depositors have a legal right to 
withdraw on demand; 
(4) formation of such holding company system is not exempt 
from the statutory requirement (section 3(a)(1) of the Act) of prior 
approval by the Board; and 
(5) section 3(d) of the Act precludes such Board approval. 
The Board has taken under consideration the views of its 
Legal Division and the arguments that have been advanced in support of 
the Bank* s position. However, before reaching its conclusion, the 
Board is offering other organizations that may be affected an oppor-
tunity to comment. 
It is hoped that the Board1s study of this matter will be 
concluded shortly. Promptly thereafter, you will be advised of the 
Board*s conclusions on the questions the Bank has raised. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

• 
fWRE^V 
2406 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
7/28/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 6, 1969. 
European-American Banking Corporation, 
52 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Dear Sirs: 
The Board has been requested to adopt certain inter-
pretations of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended 
in 1966 ("the Act"), that involve questions as to the nature of 
an "investment company" organized under Article XII of the New 
York Banking Law, and engaged in activities that include the 
receipt and holding of "credit balances", which appear to be 
funds that a customer may withdraw on demand from his account. 
It is our understanding that European-American Banking 
Corporation is an investment company of the kind described above 
and, for purposes of the Act, is controlled, together with 
European-American Bank & Trust Company (a New York commercial 
bank), by several foreign banks, each of which owns 25 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of your corporation, as well as 
of European-American Bank & Trust Company. On this basis, the 
Board's conclusions with respect to the above mentioned requests 
may affect the status and activities of European-American Banking 
Corporation and its affiliated companies. Accordingly, the 
Board deems it appropriate to afford you an opportunity to comment 
on this matter. 
A major question under consideration relates to the 
legal status of the "credit balances" that are held by such in-
vestment companies. These credit balances are represented as 
arising out of, and limited to use in, transactions in inter-
national trade. If such credit balances are "deposits" within 
the meaning of the Act, it appears that the institution that 
holds these accounts is a "bank" within the definition in 
section 2(c) of the Act; and a parent company (domestic or 
foreign) that owns 25 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
both such "bank" and another institution that engages in com-
mercial banking in the United States, is a bank holding company 
that is subject to the Act. 

2 1 0 ? 
European-American Banking 
-2-
Corporation 
The Board would be interested in any views that you 
may wish to present regarding this matter, particularly as to 
the status, under the Act, of such "credit balances" and of a 
New York "investment company" that holds such balances. You 
may also wish to furnish (1) your evaluation of the effects, both 
legal and practical, upon European-American Banking Corporation 
and its affiliated companies, of a Board conclusion that an invest-
ment company holding such credit balances is a "bank" for purposes 
of the Act; and (2) an identification of any other appropriate 
arrangements that appear to be available to a foreign parent 
company for the purpose of engaging in the type of activities 
that are now performed by its "investment company" subsidiary. 
Of course, the Board would welcome any other suggestions or 
comments that relate to the matter under consideration. 
An early decision on the questions now pending before 
the Board is desirable. Consequently, it would be appreciated 
if any comments you wish to make are received by the end of this 
month. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

aSfer. 
• • •• •• • 
I w * 
BOARD D F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2WS 
Item No. 3 
7/28/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
8 0 A R 0 
August 6, 1969. 
Schroders Limited of London, 
120, Cheapside, 
London, E.C. 2, England. 
J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation, 
57 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10006 
Dear Sirs: 
The Beard has been requested to adopt certain interpre-
tations of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended in 
1966 ("the Act") , that involve questions as to the nature of an 
"investment, company" organized under Article XII of the New York 
Banking Law, and engaged in activities that include the receipt 
and holding of "credit balances", which appear to be funds that 
a customer may withdraw on demand from his account. 
It is our understanding that J. Henry Schroder Banking 
Corporation ("Schroder") is an investment company of the kind 
described above and, for purposes of the Act, is controlled, 
together with Schroder Trust Company (a New York commercial bank), 
by Schroders Limited of London. On this basis, the Board's con-
clusions with respect to the above mentioned requests may affect 
the status and activities of Schroder and its affiliated companies. 
Accordingly, the Board deems it appropriate to afford you an 
opportunity to comment on this matter. 
A major question under consideration relates to the 
legal status of the "credit balances" that are held by such in-
vestment companies. These credit balances are represented as 
arising out of, and limited to use in, transactions in international 
trade. If such credit balances are "deposits" within the meaning 
of the Act, it appears that the institution that holds these 
accounts is a "bank" within the definition in section 2(c) of the 
Act; and a parent company (domestic or foreign) that owns 25 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of both such "bank" and another 
institution that engages in commercial banking in the United 
States, is a bank holding company that is subject to the Act. 

Z109 
S^hroders Limited of London 
-2-
J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation 
The Board would be interested in any views that you may 
wish to present regarding this matter, particularly as to the 
status, under the Act, of such "credit balances" and of a New 
York "investment company" that holds such balances." You may 
also wish to furnish (1) your evaluation of the effects, both 
legal and practical, upon Schroder and its affiliated companies, 
of a Board conclusion that an investment company holding such 
credit balances is a "bank" for purposes of the Act; and (2) an 
identification of any other appropriate arrangements that appear 
to be available to a foreign parent company for the purpose of 
engaging in the type of activities that are now performed by 
its "investment company" subsidiary. Of course, the Board would 
welcome any other suggestions or comments that relate to the 
matter under consideration. 
An early decision on the questions now pending before 
the Board is desirable. Consequently, it would be appreciated 
if any comments you wish to make are received by the end of this 
nonth. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
2110 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
7/28/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
J.ly 28, 1969 
Mr. Joseph Weintraub, Chairman, 
Pan American Bank of Miami, 
250 S.E. First Street, 
Miami, Florida. 33131 
Dear Mr. Weintraub: 
This responds to your letter of July 23, 1969 to Mr. Lyon 
of the Board's staff relating to a change proposed by Atico Financial 
Corporation ("Atico") in the method by which it will distribute to its 
shareholders stock of Pan American Bancshares, Inc. ("Pan American") 
to be received by it in exchange for bank stock presently owned by Atico. 
Your letter indicates that the only change proposed is that, 
instead of a spin-off of the shares as originally contemplated, the 
shares of Pan American will be transferred to M. A. Shapiro & Co., as 
underwriter, for sale to shareholders of Atico at the same price as is 
paid by M. A. Shapiro 6c Co. to Atico. 
It is the Board's understanding that, under the modified pro-
posal, as under the original one: 
1. Atico will not own as much as 25 per cent of the voting shares of 
Pan American at, or at any time subsequent to, the time that the latter 
becomes a bank holding company; and 
2. Atico will not in any manner control the election of a majority of 
the directors of Pan American or its subsidiary banks. 
Based on that understanding, the Board has determined that 
the proposed modification would not represent such a substantial departure 
from the original plan discussed by Pan American in connection with its 

Mr. Joseph Weintraub 
-2-
2411 
application to become a bank holding company as to make it necessary 
for the Board to give further consideration to its action approving that 
application. 
Very truly yours, 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
<j 11.12 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E 3 P O N D E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
7/28/69 
Item No. 5 
. July 28, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Karl R. Bopp, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Bopp: 
As requested in your letter of July 7, 1969, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for the 
respective grades of the employees salary structure at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, effective August 4, 1969: 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees with-
in the limits specified for the grades in which their respective posi-
tions are classified. All employees whose salaries are below the mini-
mums of their grades as a result of the structure increase should be 
brought within appropriate ranges not later than three months after the 
effective date of the new structure. 
Grade 
Minimum Salary 
Maximum Salary 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
§ 3,490 
3,690 
3,960 
4,280 
4,650 
5,060 
5,530 
6,080 
6,770 
7,490 
8,300 
9,190 
10,260 
11,480 
12,840 
14,330 
$ 4,720 
4,990 
5,350 
5,805 
6,300 
6,840 
7,480 
8,220 
9,140 
10,120 
11,210 
12,410 
13,860 
15,520 
17,360 
19,350 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth 1. Kenyoa 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
