MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 13, 1968 
5' V '.'•'•. • 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 13, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 4:15 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. -Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders of the Legal Division 
(Note: This meeting of the Board had been preceded by 
a meeting, beginning at 2:30 p.m., with representatives of the 
National Association of Supervisors of State Banks, including 
several State bank supervisors and a number of State member bankers. 
The delegation presented to the Board for consideration a number 
of matters that were said to be of considerable concern to State 
bank supervisors and to State member banks, particularly in the area 
referred to as reflecting inequality of competitive status between 
such banks and national banks. Among other problems, reference 
was made to the situation in which State member banks found them-
selves by virtue of the Board's outstanding interpretations 
relating to operations subsidiaries and loan production offices. 
The visitors were not informed of the status of the Board's current 
review of those interpretations.) 
Operations subsidiaries and loan production offices. The 
Board had before it a revised draft of a proposed reinterpretation 
of positions taken in 1966 and 1967 with respect to so-called 

8/13/68 
-2-
operations subsidiaries and loan production offices. The revised 
draft reflected views expressed by the Board at its meeting on 
July 29, 1968. 
The members of the Board who had favored the position 
taken in the proposed new interpretation indicated that they found 
the revised draft satisfactory, and consequently there were no 
suggestions for further changes except in one minor editorial 
respect. The other two members (Governors Robertson and Brimmer) 
continued to dissent from the issuance of the proposed interpretation 
for reasons they had stated previously. 
The discussion at this meeting therefore had to do mainly 
with the procedure to be followed in releasing the interpretation. 
It was pointed out by the staff that interpretations of existing 
law had not generally been regarded as constituting policy actions 
within the meaning of section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act and that 
they had accordingly not usually been included in the record of 
policy actions published in the Board's annual reports, with dis-
closure of votes and the reasons therefor. In this instance, 
therefore, one approach would be simply to publish the interpretation 
in the Federal Register. However, Board members were of the view 
that on this occasion the action was of sufficient importance to 
^arrant the issuance of a press release that would include a dis-
closure of votes. In this connection, Governor Brimmer made known 

o J L 1 4 
8/13/68 
-3-
that he would like to have included a relatively brief statement 
of the reasons for his dissent, while Governor Robertson indicated 
that he would consider the matter further. 
It was agreed that before the press release was issued 
Chairman Martin would as a matter of courtesy get in touch with 
Mr. Philip Hewes, President of the National Association of Supervisors 
of State Banks, and Mr. Frank Wille, the principal spokesman for 
the delegation that had met with the Board earlier this afternoon, 
and relate to them the substance of the Board's action. 
It was also agreed that the Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks should be notified, by telegram, before the press 
statement was issued. 
The proposed interpretation was then approved, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, with the understanding that a 
suitable press release would be issued, probably tomorrow afternoon. 
Copies of the press release, as issued, the interpretation, 
and a statement issued by Governors Robertson and Brimmer are attached 
under Item No. 1. 
There followed a brief discussion of other issues that had 
been brought up at this afternoon's meeting with the State bank 
supervisors and State member bankers, and reference was made to the 
suggestion that a committee might be named by the Board and the 

jJL 1 5 
8/13/68 
-4-
; i, , 
, 
• ; . , - . I - . ..-, ... 
State bank supervisors to discuss further some of the problems 
mentioned. However, some reservations were expressed with regard 
to the advisability of such a procedure, particularly in view of the 
precedent that might be created, and the Chairman proposed that the 
question be held over for further consideration. It was suggested 
that in the meantime the Board's staff could consider which, if any, 
of the issues raised might in its judgment benefit from joint dis-
cussions. A suggestion also was made that the Board attempt to 
decide without undue delay whether to seek legislation on certain 
matters of concern to the State bank supervisors that apparently 
could be resolved only in such manner and that the Board likewise 
study the proposal of the State bank supervisors that reports of 
examinations made by State banking departments meeting prescribed 
standards be accepted by the Federal Reserve. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: On August 13, 1968, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under delegated authority 
as reflected in the following items, copies of which 
are attached as indicated: 
_By the General Counsel of the Board 
Item No. 
Order changing the date for hearing in 
2 
the matter of the applications of Otto 
Bremer Company and Otto Bremer Foundation, 
both of St. Paul, Minnesota, for a 
determination under section 4(c)(8) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act. 

8/13/68 
-5-
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Letter to State Bank of Whiting, Whiting, 
Indiana, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Highland. 
Letter to Warren Bank, Warren, Michigan, 
approving the establishment of an in-town 
branch. 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
8/13/68 
For immediate release. 
August 14, 1968. 
In interpretations of Federal banking laws issued today, 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System decided that: 
1. State banks that are members of the Federal Reserve 
System, as well as national banks, may purchase for their own account 
shares of corporations to perform, at locations at which the banks 
are authorized to engage in business, functions that the banks are 
empowered to perform directly. 
2. State banks that are members of the Federal Reserve 
System, as well as national banks, may establish and operate, at any 
location in the United States, "loan production offices" that perform 
only servicing activities of the type described in the interpretation. 
Such offices may be established and operated by banks either 
directly, or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiary corporations. 
The interpretations, determined following a reexamination 
of Federal statutes, reversed positions taken by the Board in 1966 
and 1967. All members of the Board concurred in the new rulings 
except Governors Robertson and Brimmer, who adhered to the prior 
interpretations. 
The text of the interpretation incorporating both rulings 
is attached> as is a statement by Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 

3118 
Member Bank Purchase of Stock of Operations Subsidiaries 
The Board of Governors has reexamined its position that the 
so-called "stock-purchase prohibition" of section 5136 of the Revised 
Statutes (12 U. S. Code § 24), which is made applicable to member State 
banks by the 20th paragraph of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act 
(12 U. S. Code § 335 , forbids the purchase by a member bank "for its 
own account of any shares of stock of any corporation" (the statutory 
language), except as specifically permitted by provisions of Federal 
law or as comprised within the concept of "such incidental powers as 
shall be necessary to carry on the business of banking", referred to 
in the first sentence of paragraph "Seventh" of R.S. 5136. 
In 1966 the Board expressed the view that said incidental 
powers do not permit member banks to purchase stock of "operations 
subsidiaries" - that is, organizations designed to serve, in effect, 
as separately-incorporated departments of the bank, performing, at 
locations at which the bank is authorized to engage in business, 
functions that the bank is empowered to perform directly. 
(See 1966 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 1151.) 
The Board now considers that the incidental powers clause 
permits a bank to organize its operations in the manner that it believes 
best facilitates the performance thereof. One method of organization 
is through departments; another is through separate incorporation of 
particular operations. In other words, a wholly-owned subsidiary 
corporation engaged in activities that the bank itself may perform is 
simply a convenient alternative organizational arrangement. 

Reexamination of the apparent purposes and legislative history 
of the stock-purchase prohibition referred to above has led the Board to 
conclude that such prohibition should not be interpreted to preclude a 
member bank from adopting such an organizational arrangement unless its 
use would be inconsistent with other Federal law, either statutory or 
judicial. 
In view of the relationship between the operation of certain 
subsidiaries and the branch banking laws, the Board has also reexamined 
Its rulings on what constitutes "money lent" for the purposes of sec-
tion 5155 of the Revised Statutes (12 U. S. Code § 36), which provides 
that "The term 'branch' . . . shall be held to include any branch bank, 
branch office, branch agency, additional office, or any branch place of 
business . . . at which deposits are received, or checks paid, or money 
lent."-7 
The Board noted its 1967 interpretation that offices that are 
open to the public and staffed by employees of the bank who regularly 
engage in soliciting borrowers, negotiating terms, and processing appli-
cations for loans (so-called "loan production offices") constitute branches 
(1967 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1334.) The Board also noted that later in 
that year it considered the question whether a bank holding company may 
acquire the stock of a so-called "mortgage company" on the basis that the 
company would be engaged in "furnishing services to or performing 
services for such bank holding company or its banking subsidiaries" 
i/ In the Board's judgment, the statutory enumeration of three specific 
functions that establish branch status Is not meant to be exclusive but 
to assure that offices at which any of these functions is performed are 
regarded as branches by the bank regulatory authorities. In applying 
statute the emphasis should be to assure that significant banking 
^u?fior¥zedao?fTces a v a l * a b l e t o t h e Public only at governmentally 

'11 '7 $ \ 
(the so-called "servicing exemption" of section 4(c)(1)(C) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act; 12 U. S. Code § 1843). In concluding affirmatively, 
the Board stated that "the appropriate test for determining whether the 
company may be considered as within the servicing exemption is whether 
the company will perform as principal any banking activities - such as 
receiving deposits, paying checks, extending credit, conducting a trust 
department, and the like. In other words, if the mortgage company is to 
act merely as an adjunct to a bank for the purpose of facilitating the 
bank's operations, the company may appropriately be considered as within 
the scope of the servicing exemption." (1967 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1911.) 
The Board believes that the purposes of the branch banking laws 
and the servicing exemption are related. Generally, what constitutes a 
branch does not constitute a servicing organization and, vice versa, an 
office that only performs servicing functions should not be considered a 
branch. (Gee 1958 Federal Reserve Bulletin 431, last paragraph.) When 
viewed together, the above-cited interpretations on loan production 
offices and mortgage companies represent a departure from this principle. 
In reconsidering the laws involved, the Board has concluded that a test 
similar to that adopted with respect to the servicing exemption under 
the Bank Holding Company Act is appropriate for use in determining 
whether or not "money [is] lent" at a particular office, for the purpose 
the Federal branch banking laws. 
Accordingly, the Board considers that the following activities, 
individually or collectively, do not constitute the lending of money 

-4-
3121 
within the meaning of section 5155 of the Revised Statutes: 
soliciting 
loans on behalf of a bank (or a branch thereof), assembling credit in-
formation, making property inspections and appraisals, securing title 
information, preparing applications for loans (including making recom-
mendations with respect to action thereon), soliciting investors to pur-
chase loans from the bank, seeking to have such investors contract with 
the bank for the servicing of such loans, and other similar agent-type 
activities. When loans are approved and funds disbursed solely at the 
main office or a branch of the bank, an office at which only preliminary 
and servicing steps are taken is not a place where "money [is] lent". 
Because preliminary and servicing steps of the kinds described do not con-
stitute the performance of significant banking functions of the type that 
Congress contemplated should be performed only at governmentally approved 
offices, such office is accordingly not a branch. 
To summarize the foregoing, the Board has concluded that, 
insofar as Federal law is concerned, a member bank may purchase for its 
* 
own account shares of a corporation to perform, at locations at which the 
bank is authorized to engage in business, functions that the bank is 
empowered to perform directly. Also, a member bank may establish and 
operate, at any location in the United States, a "loan production office" 
of the type described herein. Such offices may be established and 
operated by the bank either directly, or indirectly through a wholly-
owned subsidiary corporation. 

* > 1 «;>»> 
_ 
%JjL*WiO 
This interpretation supersedes both the Board's 1966 ruling 
on "operations subsidiaries" and its 1967 ruling on "loan production 
offices," referred to above. 
<:ipT/f V •••! [•.;'.-J" 
< ' ; ^ : ' i 
STATEMENT BY GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRHYMER 
! 
, 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer, in stating the reasons for 
t 
their dissent, said: 
We are of the view that insofar as Federal laws are con-
i i r v , i' 
• 
cerned there should be no competitive inequality as between State banks 
and national banks. 
From the standpoint of Federal banking policy, we believe 
that it would be in the public interest to amend the governing statutes 
to give national banks and member State banks greater latitude to con-
duct some of their activities through subsidiary corporations. 
However, the law being what it is, and the obligation of 
the Federal Reserve being to administer that law (with respect to State 
member banks) as it is--not as we might like to have it--we believe the 
problem should have been resolved through legislation rather than by 
changing our interpretation of the law. 
To go even further, as the Board has done, and adopt the 
position that State member banks may (through these subsidiaries) 
establish loan production offices anywhere in the U. S., is to take 
such a long step toward a fundamental change in our banking structure 
as to call for legislative consideration--even if its legality were 
unquestionable, which is not the case. 

-6-
Congress, rather than bank supervisors, should decide 
whether nationwide systems of loan production offices are to be 
permitted in the U. S.--whether directly through specifically 
approved branches or indirectly through offices of "operations sub-
sidiaries'1 (where no supervisory approval would be required under 
this ruling). There is a provision requiring that "loans must be 
approved and funds disbursed solely at the bank's" main office or 
branch, but this can be accomplished by telephone. The establishment 
throughout the country of loan production offices by the nation's 
largest banks is not a possibility to be taken lightly. 

T-3 *y 
O.jL/'w4 
Item No. 2 
8/13/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
OTTO BREMER COMPANY AND 
OTTO BREMER FOUNDATION 
Order Changing Date for Hearing 
In the matter of the applications of Otto Bremer Company 
and Otto Bremer Foundation, St, Paul, Minnesota, for a determination 
pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regula-
tion Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), that the planned activities of their proposed 
non-banking subsidiaries, The State Agency of Redwood Falls, Inc., The 
American State Insurance Agency, Inc., The Cassabanka Insurance Agency, 
Inc., The Elk Valley Agency, Inc., and The Citizens Insurance Agency, 
Inc. (Dockets Nos. BHC-83, BHC-84, BHC-85, BHC-86, BHC-87), are of the 
kind described in the aforementioned sections of the Act and Regulation Y, 
so as to make it unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4 of the Act 
with respect to the acquisition or retention of shares in non-banking 
organizations to apply in order to carry out the purposes of the Act, 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, by Order dated 
July 25, 1968 (33 Federal Register 11038, August 2, 1968), set the 
hearing for August 21, 1968, at 10 a.m. at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis, the right, however, being reserved to the Board or a duly 
selected hearing examiner to designate any other date or place for such 
hearing or any part thereof which may be determined to be necessary or 
appropriate for the convenience of the parties. 
The Board having determined that it is appropriate for the 
convenience of the parties, that the time of the hearing be changed, 

O '3 OCT 
O JL Cj 
-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the hearing in this matter, 
originally scheduled for August 21, 1968, at 10 a.m. at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, Minneapolis, Minnesota, be held on 
August 28, 1968, at 10 a.m. at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
The right is reserved to the Board or to the hearing examiner to desig-
nate such other date or place for the hearing or any part thereof which 
may be determined to be necessary or appropriate for the convenience 
of the parties. 
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, that any person desiring to give testi-
mony in this proceeding should file with the Secretary of the Board, 
directly or through the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, on or 
before August 23, 1968, a written request containing a statement of 
the nature of the petitioner's interest in the proceeding and a summary of 
the matters concerning which said petitioner wishes to give testimony. 
Any such request will be presented to the designated hearing examiner 
for his determination. Persons submitting timely requests will be 
notified of the hearing examiner's decision. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th day of August, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors, acting by its General 
Counsel pursuant to delegated authority. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

••fW^-V 
2 'j 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
8/13/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 19, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
State Bank of Whiting, 
Wh iting, Indiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the establishment of a branch by State Bank 
of Whiting, Whiting, Indiana, at the intersection of Forty-fifth 
Street and Cline Avenue in Highland, Indiana, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this letter. 
In approving this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's capital position is satisfactory, that the pro-
posed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
and that establishment of the branch will not tend to create an 
undesirable competitive situation. 
•Is* 1 
. • I : 
. J: 
Very truly yours, 
C-v.', 7 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

\o. 
^LRES^-* 
Q 4 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item Nor. 4 
8/13/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 19, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Warren Bank, 
Warren, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the establishment of a branch by Warren Bank, 
Warren, Michigan, in the vicinity of the intersection of Thirteen 
Mile and Schoenherr Roads, Warren, Michigan, provided the branch is 
established within six months from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that the proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the 
community without creating an undesirable competitive situation, and 
that the quality of your bank's management is consistent with approval 
of the branch. Your continuing close attention in improving the 
quality of your bank's loan portfolio is urged. 
In a letter to you, dated May 13, 1968, approving the 
establishment of a branch in Warren, Michigan, the need for the 
strengthening of your bank's capital position was pointed out. 
While the June 29, 1968, report of condition indicated some improve-
ment in capital over that reflected at the January examination, 
capital funds remain far below a desirable level. In view of the 
existing level of capital funds, the growth trend of your bank and 
the growth to be expected from establishment of two additional offices 
in a fairly short period of time, need for sizable additions to capital 
exists. The directors are urged to take appropriate steps so that 
capital funds may be increased by an amount sufficient to assure that 
growth will be on a sound basis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
