Minutes for 
January 15, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the tninutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

101 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 15, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Eckert, Keir, Bernard, 
Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and Kichline of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Katz, Baker, 
Gekker, Pizer, Ruckdeschel, and Stem of the 
Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard reported on conditions in the 
Government securities market, Mr. Fry commented on recent and prospec-
tive bank credit developments, and Mr. Ruckdeschel summarized foreign 
exchange and gold market developments. Copies of the charts and tables 
distributed in connection with today's review have been placed in the 
Board's files. 

1/15/68 
-2-
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Partee, Sammons, and Ettin 
withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Messrs. Cleaver and Wiles, Economists, Division of 
International Finance 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on January 11, 1968, of the rates 
on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail 
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Villa park Trust & Savings Bank, 
1 
Villa Park, Illinois, approving its appli-
cation for admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 

UKi 
1/15/68 
-3-
Letter to the Chairman of the House Committee 
on Interstate and Foreign Commerce commenting 
on H.J. Res. 946, a resolution that would 
authorize an investigation by the Securities 
and Exchange Commission of the effect on the 
security markets of the operation of institu-
tional investors. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York approving the Bank's plan to abolish 
the nonclerical salary structure for the 
Buffalo Branch. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of The Bank of New Hope, New Hope, Virginia, into National Bank and 
Trust Company, Charlottesville, Virginia, was approved for transmittal 
to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Bank of New 
Hope and National Bank and Trust Company, Charlottesville, 
would eliminate a small amount of existing and potential 
competition, and the overall competitive effect of the 
transaction would be slightly adverse. 
Governors Mitchell and Daane noted that they would have pre-
ferred the conclusion recommended by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond, namely, that the proposed merger would have no adverse com-
petitive effects. 
Messrs. Egertson, Cleaver, Ettin, and Wiles withdrew from the 
meeting at this point and Mr. Hexter, General Counsel, entered. 
Technical assistance for Ethiopia. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated January 11, 1968, from Mr. Solomon (Adviser) relating 
Item No. 
2 
3 

1 
1/15/68 
-6-
to a request for technical assistance from the National Bank of 
Ethiopia. The most recent request had been in the form of a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York from the Governor of the 
National Bank seeking the services of a senior official from the Fed-
eral Reserve System for a period of nine to twelve months. Previously, 
the Board had been approached by the International Monetary Fund, but 
at the time no suitable candidate could be found who was willing to 
undertake the assignment. However, several names were now suggested 
for the Board's consideration. None of the persons mentioned had com-
bined experience in the research and bank examination functions, and 
all of them had either retired, resigned, or would soon retire from 
the System. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that someone with experi-
ence in the research and policy planning areas would be better equipped 
to advise with respect to the problems facing the National Bank of 
Ethiopia than one whose experience had been restricted to bank super-
vision. In addition, he would prefer someone who was still active in 
the System. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he shared Governor Mitchell's 
views, as did Governor Daane. In addition, Governor Brimmer emphasized 
the long history of associations between the central bank of Ethiopia 
and the Federal Reserve and stressed the desirability of securing a 
person with wide practical experience in central banking. 

J/?5 
1/15/68 
-5-
There followed a discussion of several persons mentioned by 
members of the Board as possible candidates for the assignment, and it 
was understood that the staff would endeavor to expand the list of 
names to include persons who would meet the requirements suggested by 
Appointment of consultant. Governor Robertson stated that he 
was prepared to approve on behalf of the Board the appointment of 
J. Herbert Furth, former Adviser in the Division of International 
• ci.o^'t, 
crj c 
Finance, as a consultant, with compensation at the rate of $95 for 
each day worked, to advise on the foreign credit restraint program 
and related matters. 
No objection was indicated, and it was understood that the 
appointment would be approved. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On January 12, 1968, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf of 
the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's 
the Board members. 
staff: 
Salary increases, effective January 14, 1968 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Board Members' Offices 
Carol M. O'Brien, Secretary 
$7,184 
$7,409 
Office of the Secretary 
Adlyn E. McWhirter, Analyst 
8,054 
8,323 

106 
1/15/68 
-6-
Salary increases, effective January 14, 1968 (continued) 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Legal 
Janet S. Hart, Senior Attorney 
$18,404 
$19,017 
Robert S. Plotkin, Senior Attorney 
19,017 
19,630 
Research and Statistics 
Joy Hunter, Clerk-Typist 
4,108 
4,466 
James L. Pierce, Senior Economist 
17,953 
19,017 
(change in title from Economist) 
Patricia A. Schoen, Secretary 
6,137 
6,342 
Linda Seidman, Stenographer 
4,466 
4,995 
Rita L. Stewart, Statistical Clerk 
4,108 
4,466 
Petronella van der Vossen, Secretary 
5,751 
6,137 
Bank Operations 
Eileen Moyer, Stenographer 
4,466 
4,995 
Diane Salisbury, Secretary 
5,937 
6,123 
Administrative Services 
Bert Harvey, Chauffeur 
5,762 
6,074 
Richard E. Jackson, Jr., Messenger 
3,776 
3,902 
Mary Sumler, Cafeteria Helper 
3,902 
4,028 
Office of the Controller 
Eleanor Jean Pratt, Operations Analyst 
9,979 
10,301 
Transfer 
Ruth F. Jones, from the position of Secretary in the Division of 
Re search and Statistics to the position of Secretary in the Legal Divi-
sion, with an increase in basic annual salary from $7,367 to $7,859 per 
annum, effective upon assuming her new duties. 
Maternity leave 
Donna White, Clerk-Typist, Division of Administrative Services, 
beginning January 25, 1968. 

107 
1/15/68 
-7-
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
Reemployment following maternity leave 
Susan W. Burch, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $14,407, effective January 15, 
1968. 
Salary increases 
Liston M. Grider, Federal Reserve Examiner, Division of Examina-
tions, from $10,301 to $10,945 per annum, effective January 15, 1968. 
Esmond C. Langley, Head Messenger, Division of Administrative 
Services, from $6,867 to $7,367 per annum, effective January 15, 1968. 
On January 12 and 15, 1968, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board 
under delegated authority as indi-
cated by the following items, copies 
of which are attached under the re-
spective numbers indicated: 
On January 12, 1968 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
approving the designation of 11 employees as special 
assistant examiners. 
4 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
approving the appointment of Zane R. Kelley as 
assistant examiner. 
5 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, California, 
approving the establishment of a branch at 4216 El 
Camino Real, Palo Alto. 
6 

1/15/68 
-8-
On January 15, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Bankers Trust Company, New York, 
New York, approving the establishment of a 
branch in the Village of Plainview, Town of 
Oyster Bay, Nassau County. 
Item No 
Secretary 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/15/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRRE3PDNDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 15, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Villa Park Trust & Savings Bank, 
Villa Park, Illinois. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Villa Park Trust & Savings Bank, 
Villa Park, Illinois, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
such bank shall not cause or permit any change to be 
made in the general character of its business or in 
the scope of the corporate powers exercised by it at 
the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board s 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank s 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 

Villa Park Trust & Savings Bank 
-2-
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board 
of Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of 
such resolution should be filed with the'Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
W A S H I N O T O N 
O F T H E 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
1/15/68 
Item No. 2 
January 16, 1968 
The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign 
Commerce, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D.C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request for the Board's comments 
on H. J. Res. 946, a resolution authorizing an investigation of the 
effect on the security markets of the operation of institutional 
investors. The Board endorses the proposal to study this important 
aspect of the functioning of our financial system. 
In recent decades, financial intermediaries have developed 
into a major conduit for channeling the flow of funds in the United 
States economy, and this development has made a significant contribu-
tion to the efficiency with which the financial savings of the public 
is made available for the financing of economic growth. At the same 
time, however, the increasing importance of intermediaries has had 
significant implications for the functioning of securities markets, 
raising questions as to whether the practices and rules developed in 
an era when financial markets were characterized by many individual 
buyers and sellers continue to be appropriate. Some of these questions 
have particular relevance to the responsibilities of the Federal Reserve 
System: for example, have the activities of institutional investors 
introduced new elements of instability in financial markets? Have the 
market activities of institutional investors tended to moderate or 
aggravate the fluctuations in securities prices? Has the increased 
importance of institutional investors reduced or otherwise modified 
the role of credit in supporting speculative activity in financial 
markets? 
The Board's staff has been working with the staff of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on the design of a study which would 

-Vi'V 
112 
The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers 
-2-
:.. > v ;•*••• • 
• , • ,. v . • , > 
• 
•• 
.- 
, 
• • 
: . 
be addressed to answering these and other significant questions on 
institutional investor activity, and we will be glad to continue to 
:! '* 
cooperate with SEC in this connection. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

113 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
1/15/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
January 15, 1968 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President,. 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
As requested in your letter of December 26, 1967, 
the Board of Governors approves the Bank's plan to abolish 
the nonclerical salary structure for the Buffalo Branch and 
to administer nonclerical jobs in the Branch clerical salary 
structure, effective immediately. 
Very truly yours, 
ij. jV-J.Ji 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
114 
Item No. 7 
1/15/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 12, 1968 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of January 8, 1968, the Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the designation of each of the following employees as a 
special assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia: 
Albert N. Curley 
Charles H. Jordan 
Kathleen A. Loutey 
Carole L. Sloan 
Elmer R. Tharan 
Thomas O'Malley 
Michael P. Packi 
William R. Schiavo 
Eddie F. Williamson 
Carnell E. Baughn 
William J. McAfee 
Appropriate notations have been made of the names to be 
deleted from the list of special assistant examiners. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

115 
T E L E G R A M 
Item No. 5 
L E A S E D 
W I R E S E R V I C E 
_ 
. 
. 
1/15/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
January 12, 1968 
STEPHENSON - ATLANTA 
Reurlet January 9, 1968, the Director, Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
appointment of Zane R. Kelley as assistant examiner Federal Reserve 
. i ,. • \ -i 
- • 
Bank of Atlanta, t 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

116 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S O O , C A L I F O R N I A 
04120 
Item No 6 
1/15/68 
January 12, lS6u 
Board of Directors, 
Fidelity Bank, 
9570 Wilshire Boulevard at Camden Drive, 
Beverly Hills, California 90213. 
Gentlemen: 
On behalf of the Board o^Governor 
Federal Reserve System, acting urfder delegate!! autnoncy, 
this Bank h; s approved the establishment by Fidelity Bank, 
Beverly Hills, California, of a branch office at 4216 
El Camino Real, Palo>l£Q. 1Califor\ia^tfhich resulted 
from the acqui.3itierfTof thexraortgag^serviclng business 
of McMillan Mortage CompanyNiy that \ m k on December 1, 
1964. 
r 
\ 
This approval is grahted with the understanding 
th/ft the activities of the bj^nch will continue to be 
limited to the neg^t^a^in^process i.ng, and servicing of 
/real estate mortgage loans. 
\ 
/ 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Irrrln L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

1 1 7 
C O P Y 
Item No. 7 
1/15/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10045 
January 15, 1968 
Mr. Michael J. Gill 
Assistant Treasurer 
Bankers Trust Company 
16 Wall Street 
New York, New York 10015 
Dear Mr. Gills 
We refer to your bank's application requesting permission 
to establish a branch office at 164 Manetto Hill Road, Unincorporated 
Village of Plainview, Town of Oyster Bay, Nassau County, New York. 
After reviewing the application in the light of the factors enumerated 
in Section 265.2(f)(1) of the Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority 
issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System we 
have concluded that your application should be approved. Accordingly 
on behalf of the Board of Governors, the Federal Reserve Bank of New ' 
York acting under delegated authority, approves the establishment by 
your bank of a branch office at the above-mentioned location, provided 
it is established within one year of the date of this letter. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch is 
actually established and opened for business, giving the effective 
date of opening, the name, if any, by which it will be known, and 
the official postal address, including the zip code number. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing and 
returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) 
Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Vice President 
Enclosure 
