Minutes for 
May 29, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

19(il 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, May 29, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Mertz, Porter, and Via of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Shull, Eisenbeis, Lawrence, and Wiles, 
and Miss Ormsby of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Burton, Harris, and Poundstone 
of the Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Pflueger and Veenstra of the Division 
of Data Processing 

5/29/68 
-2-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background informat ion that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to The Chase Manhattan Bank 
1 
(National Association), New York, 
New York, approving the establish-
ment of a branch in Milan, Italy. 
Letter to First National City Bank, 
2 
New York, New York, approving the 
establishment of a branch in the 
Kota area of Djakarta, Republic of 
Indonesia. 
Letter to Bank of America National 
3 
Trust and Savings Association, San 
Francisco, California, approving 
the establishment of a branch in 
Bridgetown, Barbados. 
Letter to United California Bank 
4 
International, New York, New York, 
granting consent to the acquisition 
of additional shares of Commercial 
Credit Corporation (Thailand) Ltd., 
Bangkok, Thailand. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Bank of Brooksville, Brooksville, Mississippi, into The 
National Bank of Commerce of Columbus, Columbus, Mississippi, was 
•S£££oved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclu-
sion stated that consummation of the proposed merger would eliminate 

13G3 
5/29/6% 
-3-
a small amount of existing and potential competition and that the 
overall competitive effect would be slightly adverse. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed consolidation of the 
State Bank of New Ulm, New Ulm, Minnesota, with the Winslow State 
Bank, also of New Ulm, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Corporation. The conclusion stated that the proposed consolida-
tion would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of Washougal, Washougal, 
Washington, into National Bank of Washington, Tacoma, Washington, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclu-
sion read as follows: 
There is no competition between National Bank of 
Washington, Tacoma, a subsidiary of Western Bancorpora-
tion, Los Angeles, California, a registered bank holding 
company, and Bank of Washougal, Washougal, Washington. 
Consummation of the proposed merger would increase slight-
ly the already high level of banking concentration in the 
State of Washington. The overall effect of this proposal 
on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Applications of Merrill Trust Company and Hammond Street Trust 
Company. There had been distributed a memorandum dated May 23, 1968, 
from the Division of Examinations and related material regarding the 
aPplication of The Merrill Trust Company, Bangor, Maine, to merge with 
Hammond Street Trust Company, Bangor, a newly-organized bank not yet 
in operation, and the application of Hammond Street Trust Company for 

1369 
5/29/68 
-4-
membership in the Federal Reserve System. The recommendations were 
favorable. 
Mr. Egertson noted that the resulting institution would become 
a subsidiary of a newly-organized corporation under the laws of Maine, 
Merrill Bankshares Company, which would become a one-bank holding 
company. The merger was one step in the corporate reorganization 
designed to bring the holding company into being. Hammond Street 
Trust Company, an "interim" bank that would exist only for a single 
day, would serve as the vehicle for transferring the stock of Merrill 
Trust Company to the holding company. The holding company could, of 
course, apply in the future for permission to become a registered bank 
holding company by acquiring additional banks. 
The merger and membership applications were then approved 
unanimously. It was understood that an order and statement reflecting 
the decision on the merger application would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration. It was also understood that a letter reflect-
ing the decision with respect to the application for System membership 
would be sent at the appropriate time. 
Applications of Union Bond & Mortgage Company. A memorandum 
from the Division of Examinations dated May 23, 1968, and other perti-
nent papers had been distributed in connection with applications by 
Union Bond & Mortgage Company, Port Angeles, Washington, to acquire 
additional voting shares of The First American National Bank of Port 

1965 
5/29/68 
-5-
Townsend, Port Townsend, Washington; Forks State Bank, Forks, Washing-
ton; and Bank of Sequim, Sequim, Washington. The recommendations were 
favorable. 
Following comments by Mr. Leavitt, the applications were 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that orders and a state-
ment reflecting this decision would be drafted for the Board's consid-
eration. 
Implementation of lagged reserve amendments. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated May 28, 1968, from the Division of Data 
Processing proposing that a meeting of Reserve Bank and Board repre-
sentatives be held during the week of June 24, 1968, for the purpose 
of developing plans for the orderly implementation of the lagged 
reserve amendments to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, that 
were to become effective September 12, 1968. The Reserve Banks would 
be asked to submit suggestions for specific topics to be discussed 
and from those suggestions an agenda would be developed for distribu-
tion prior to the meeting. For background information, it was proposed 
to send to the Reserve Banks a memorandum dated April 18, 1968, from 
the Division of Research and Statistics outlining some of the potential 
problem areas. 
Governor Robertson suggested that for budgetary reasons the 
meeting be confined to a one-day session if possible, with Reserve Bank 
participation held to reasonable proportions. The calling of the meet-
ing was then authorized. 

1866 
5/29/68 
-6-
Doylestown applications (Items 5 and 6). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated May 23, 1968, from the Division of Examina-
tions and related material regarding the applications of (1) Girard 
Trust Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to merge The Doylestown National 
Bank & Trust Company, Doylestown, Pennsylvania, and (2) The Fidelity 
Bank, Philadelphia, to merge Doylestown Trust Company. 
Mr. Egertson pointed out that although the Division of Examina-
tions recommended denial the opinion among the Reserve Bank and Board 
staffs was not unanimous with respect to these applications. He 
inquired whether, in the circumstances, the Board would wish to discuss 
the applications with representatives of the four banks concerned and 
with Vice President Campbell of the Reserve Bank, who was strongly of 
the opinion that the applications should be approved. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that, except where addi-
tional information could be provided orally beyond that submitted in 
writing, the Board should not establish a practice of inviting Reserve 
Bank representatives to meet with the Board whenever a Reserve Bank's 
recommendation differed from that of the Board's staff. Governor 
Mitchell then indicated that he would be interested in questioning 
representatives of the four banks, and further discussion developed 
3 view on the part of the Board favorable to the holding of an oral 
Presentation, with the question whether to invite Mr. Campbell to meet 
with the Board held in abeyance. 

1967 
5/29/68 
-7-
Accordingly, it was agreed that arrangements for oral presenta-
tions should be made. Attached as Items 5 and 6 are copies of the 
orders subsequently issued for such presentations, to be held on 
June 26, 1968. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Discount study report. After discussion the Board authorized 
sending to the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks on a confidential 
basis, for their review and comments, copies of the Final Report of 
the Steering Committee for the Fundamental Reappraisal of the Discount 
Mechanism. 
During the discussion Governor Daane expressed certain reserva-
tions, indicating that he would prefer personally to withhold distribu-
tion until after the meeting with the Federal Advisory Council on 
June 4 and the meeting with the Reserve Bank Presidents on June 18. 
He noted that the discussion at those meetings might result in some 
modification of the recommendations in the report and that it could 
be more difficult to effect changes if the report had already been 
distributed to the Reserve Bank directors. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the reservations voiced thus 
far by some of the Reserve Bank Presidents went mostly to questions 
of language and emphasis. Further, the reservations appeared to 
reflect a minority view, and he did not envisage that they would result 

5/29/68 
-8-
in changing the broad features of the report. He did not feel that 
the distribution of the report to the directors would create any 
problems that could not be worked out satisfactorily. 
Foreign travel. The Board authorized Mr. Holland to accompany 
Governor Robertson to the July meeting of the Bank for International 
Settlements in Basle and to make appropriate brief visits en route, 
such travel to be on an actual expense basis. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: The requirements 
contemplated by the Board's action on 
April 26, 1968, in approving the issu-
ance of a preliminary permit to Republic 
International Company, Dallas, Texas, 
having been completed, a letter was sent 
today to that corporation transmitting a 
final permit to commence business. 
On May 28, 1968, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board memoranda 
recommending the following actions relat-
ing to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Gerald Hanweck as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $13,753 (or step 10 of Grade 
FR-11 if his Ph.D. requirements were not yet completed), effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
James A. Griffin as Clearing Assistant, Division of Data Process-
ing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,751, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 

1369 
5/29/68 
-9-
Appointments 
James Thomas Lynch as Attorney, Legal Division, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $9,130, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Carol Joan Seigler as Programmer, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $8,592, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 
On May 28 and 29, 1968, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by 
the following letters, copies of which 
are attached under the respective item 
numbers indicated: 
On May 28, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to St. Joseph Valley Bank, Elkhart, 
7 
Indiana, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Cleveland Township, Elkhart County. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
8 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment 
of a branch at 2246-48 West Lehigh Avenue 
and an investment in bank premises incident 
thereto. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Security Bank and Trust Company, 
9 
Lincoln Park, Michigan, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in Romulus Township, 
Wayne County. 
On May 29, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company, Providence, 
10 
Rhode Island, approving the establishment of a branch on 
the campus of Providence College. 

yJpJSSSSUi-
'-f*4L 
RE^V 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1370 
Item No. 10 
5/29/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 29, 1968. 
The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
New York, New York, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Milan, Italy, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before June 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Milan. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of for-
eign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form of 
allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as for-
eign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 

1371 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association) 
-2-
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and Chase 
Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

'•f*AL Rt^."' 
13 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
5/29/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 29, 1968. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to First National City Bank, New York, New York, pur-
suant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
establish a branch in the Kota area of Djakarta, Republic of Indonesia, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before June 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Djakarta. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of for-
eign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form of 
allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as for-
eign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign in-
vestments on the balance of payments, this acknowledgment is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations maxi-
mum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and 

1373 
First National City Bank 
-2-
investment activities of your bank, First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, International Banking Corporation, and First 
National City Bank (International), and that due consideration is 
being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1974 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
Item No. 3 
. . ^ * o V c o V ^ . 
O F T H E 
5/29/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
0M^^Smm**®^2 • 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
• O N S ^ J S ^ 
* 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
••f^LRE^V 
May 29, 1968. 
Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Associa-
tion, San Francisco, California, pursuant to the provisions of Section 
25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Bridgetown, 
Barbados, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the pro-
visions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for busi-
ness on or before June 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall be deemed 
to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will automatically 
terminate on that date. Please inform the Board of Governors through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco when the branch is opened for busi-
ness, furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board should also be informed of any future change in location of the 
branch in Bridgetown. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of foreign 
branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allo-
cated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
on the balance of payments, this consent is granted with the understanding 
that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will 
be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now 
in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities 
of your bank and Bank of America, New York, and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

>v> 
12*. 
uj 
k 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
J o v 
Item No. 4 
5/29/68 
/ S 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C I A L C • R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 29, 1968. 
United California Bank International, 
61 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 14, 1968, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to 
purchase and hold approximately 2,000 additional shares of 
Commercial Credit Corporation (Thailand) Ltd., Bangkok, 
Thailand, at a cost of approximately $13,000, provided such 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board has noted that as of April 30, 1968, the 
foreign loans and investments of your Corporation and United 
California Bank exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
those foreign loans and investments will be reduced as soon 
as possible to a level consistent with the guidelines, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

17 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Item No. 5 
5/29/68 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
GIRARD TRUST BANK 
1 
for prior approval of proposed 
1 
merger with The Doylestown National Bank1 
2 
ORDER FOR PUBLIC PROCEEDING 
Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has filed an 
application, under the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the 
Boards prior approval of the proposed merger of The Doylestown National 
Bank, Doylestown, Pennsylvania, into Girard Trust Bank, under the charter 
and title of the latter. Notice of the filing of this application was 
published by the Applicant pursuant to the requirements of the Act, 
It now appears to the Board to be in the interest of the 
Public, as well as the Applicant, to afford an opportunity for the 
expression of views and opinions by persons in a public proceeding before 
fche Board, Accordingly, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that a public proceeding before the 
Board be held commencing at 2:30 p.m., on June 26, 1968, at the offices 
°f the Board of Governors, Washington, D. C, 

-2-
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, that any person desiring to appear 
before the Board at this proceeding should file with the Secretary of 
the Board, 20th and Constitution Avenue, N, V/., Washington, D. C. 
20551, on or before June 20, 1968, a written request sotting forth a 
brief statement of the nature of the views he wishes to express. 
Persons submitting such requests will be notified of the Board's 
decision thereon. 
(signed) 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
I 
(SEAL) 
May 31, 1968, 
* 

1978 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
I t e m No- 6 
5/29/68 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE FIDELITY BANK 
for prior approval of proposed merger 
with Doylestown Trust Company 
ORDER FOR PUBLIC PROCEEDING 
The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has filed an 
application, under the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C* 1828(c)), for the 
Board's prior approval of the proposed merger of Doylestown Trust 
Company, Doylestown, Pennsylvania, into The Fidelity Bank, under the 
charter and title of the latter. Notice of the filing of this applica-
tion was published by the Applicant pursuant to the requirements of the 
Act. 
It now appears to the Board to be in the interest of the 
Public, as well as the Applicant, to afford an opportunity for the 
Expression of views and opinions by persons in a public proceeding 
before the Board. Accordingly, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that a public proceeding before the 
Board be held commencing at 4 p.m., on June 26, 1968, at the offices 
the Board of Governors, Washington, D. C. 

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, that any person desiring to appear 
'yt'X- 
r-
before the Board at this proceeding should file with the Secretary 
of the Board, 20th and Constitution Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. 
20551,on or before June 20, 1968, a written request setting forth a 
brief statement of the nature of the views he wishes to express. 
Persons submitting such requests will be notified of the Board's 
decision thereon. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
May 31, 1968 

1980 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
5/29/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 29, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
St. Joseph Valley Bank, 
Elkhart, Indiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the establishment of a branch by St. Joseph Valley Bank, Elkhart, 
Indiana, at the intersection of County Road #3 and U. S. 20, 
Cleveland Township, Elkhart County, Indiana, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management and capital are adequate, that the 
proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
and that establishment of the branch will not tend to create an 
undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANK OF 
PHILADELPHIA 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No 
5/29/68 
May 28, 1968 
Board of Directors 
The Fidelity Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19109 
Dear Sirs: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federi 
Reserve System, acting under delegated autWitv, the 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia apojrt^vea/6K^\esiablishtnent by 
The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphi^T PerfnsylvVnid, of a branch 
office at 2246-48 West Lehigh AVenu^. PKUadfelphia, Pennsylvania, 
provided the branch is establish®^ vranin^dne year from the date 
of this letter. 
This actiojy 
Vview ofs 
^following opinions 
and factors: 
1. Capitaryof your banfc^presently is regarded as 
idequateN 
agement df your Wank Is regarded as adequate. 
3. It Ls relieved the convenience and needs of the 
coramonltt will be better served if the proposed 
branpft i* established. 
t i^believed the establishment of the proposed 
ch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation (either actual or potential) 
5. It is believed there are good prospects for 
profitable operations of the proposed branch 
within a reasonable time and the bank's earnings 
are adequate to sustain the operational losses 
of the proposed branch until it becomes profitable 
6. Your bank's investment in bank premises after the 
expenditure for the proposed branch will be 
reasonable. 

FEDERAL R E S E R V E BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
1982 
P A G E 
N O . 
T o 
Board of Directors 
5/28/68 
7. Counsel for this Reserve Bsnk considers that 
establishment of the branch would be in con-
formity with the provisions of section 208.8 
of Regulstlon H and section 5155 of the 
Revised Statutes. 
8. Establishment of the branch was approved by 
the Pennsylvania Department of Banking under 
date of Hay 24, 1968. 
In connection with the proposed branch your bank con-
templates an expenditure of $110,000 in bank premises. Since 
amount of 
tain approval 
your bank's Investment in bank premises exceeds th 
your bank's capital stock it will be necessary to p\ 
for this expenditure. 
Under the provisions of section 
Reserve 
Act (12 U.S.C. 371(d)) the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors ofThe. Federal Res^re System 
and acting under delegated authoriW/fromNsaid Board, approves an 
investment of $110,000 by The ?ld&Lty Bank J Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania, in bank premises in connection \rLtW ihe establishment of the 
subject branch. This approval i^Xgrant^a/ln view of the following 
factors: 
1. The capital 
Philadelp 
consldere 
character 
to Its de 
rat£_£espo 
risk 
Pennsy 
adequate in 
nd conditio 
it liabil 
iliti^ 
d 
The Trttelity Bank, 
la, a£> present Is 
elation to the 
of its assets and 
es and other corpo-
lncludlng the volume 
of its marginal and 
inferior quality assets, all considered in 
relation t/*\ the strength of the bank's 
management] 
>on com*}lotion of the proposed Investment, 
s aggregate Investment (direct and 
indirect) in bank premises plus the Indebtedness 
of any wholly-owned bank premises subsidiary 
will not exceed AO per cent of the bank's total 
capital funds (including capital notes and 
debentures) plus valuation reserves. 
Tours very truly, 
•o "'ot&v'ii 
Joseph M. Case 
Assistant Vice President 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
Item No , 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60600 
5/29/68 
(312) HA 7-2320 
May 23, 1$£3 
Mr. Clarence R. i-'.oad 
Chairman of the Beard and President 
Security Bank and Tract Company 
Lincoln Pari:, Michigan 
Dear Mr. Mead: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved establishment 
by your bank of a branch in the vicinity of the intersection 
of Wayne Road and Michelle Drive, Romulus Township, Wayne 
County, Michigan, provided the branch is established within 
twelve months from the date of this letter. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalization of 
Security Bank and Trust Ccroany is adequate, that the bank 
is satisfactorily staffed and biased, that the proposed 
branch will serve the needs and convenience of the community 
and that the branch will not create an undesirable competitive 
situation. 
Very truly yours, 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
bj 0 iV* J w j i 
/ 
ec - i-ir. Robert C. Holland^ 
- Mich. FIB 
- Detroit Branch 
- Examiner's file © P Y 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
1384 
Item No. 10 
5/29/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 29, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company, 
Providence, Rhode Island. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the establishment of a branch by Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company, 
Providence, Rhode Island, on the Providence College Campus located 
at the junction of Eaton Street and River Avenue, Providence, Rhode 
Island, provided the branch is established within six months from 
the date of this letter. 
In approving this application, it has been determined that 
your management is adequate, that the proposed branch will serve the 
convenience and needs of the community, and that establishment of the 
branch will not tend to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
As suggested by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston following the 1967 
examination, your bank's capital position deserves continuing close 
attention. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
