MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 19, 19 71 

i 
2111 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, August 19, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board 
and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
; hi, 
Board 
in 
•VOi": . . ;• 
> U o of 
.this 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Bryant, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
JV Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
I 
u 

211 
8/19/71 
-2-
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia and Miss Key, Technical 
Assistants, Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion of Atlantic Bancorporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire 
shares of Westside Atlantic Bank of Orlando, Orlando, Florida, a 
Proposed new bank, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Barnett Banks 
°f Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Barnett 
Mall Bank, N.A., Winter Park, Florida, a proposed new bank, and 
•Authorized the issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The American 
Bancshares of Michigan, Inc., Kalamazoo, Michigan, to become a bank 
holding company through acquisition of shares of the successor by 
merger to The American National Bank and Trust Company of Michigan, 
also of Kalamazoo, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 

2112 
8/19/71 
-3-
Bank Holding Company Act: simplification of procedures. 
In 
a memorandum of August 17, 1971, the Legal Division restated recommen-
dations made in several previous memoranda for simplification of 
Procedures under sections 3(a)(1) and 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act. Revisions in the recommendations had been made in the 
light of earlier discussions of procedural and other questions relating 
to implementation of the Act. In the following paragraphs the state-
ment of each recommendation in the Legal Division's memorandum is 
accompanied by the views expressed by members of the Board at today's 
meeting. 
Recommendation 1: The Board should delegate its authority 
to approve the formation of one-bank holding companies, in 
part to the Reserve Banks and in part to the Director of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation. 1/ 
Governor Robertson initially took the position that the Board 
should not delegate authority to decide cases involving the formation 
-K-II id 
ib... •••'.{>} ik> 
?» 
! 
— 
i j 
u, .'„/•• t'J . 
a one-bank holding company, unless the only assets of the company 
biv-' -l 
_! \ •<" .'•>,.• -i I* bt- a1 ie 
5 i::U.i 'i* l\ •>. iVr.HT-
Would be shares of the bank to be acquired. 
(He subsequently joined 
'.i^.i .. • r i. <r: I / ro 
',/tfr I I 
U* T. ;") C-,:' • ;* ..•••* '< " i 
v u - . ••
other members in the view that the holding company could also engage 
activities permissible for holding companies by the Act or 
Regulation Y.) 
Governor Maisel also spoke in favor of setting limits, 
especially to exclude from the delegation cases in which a significant 
i/ The implementing documents, as attached to the memorandum, referred 
only to delegation of authority to the Reserve Banks, and the Board's 
discussion proceeded on that basis. 

2111 
8/19/71 
-4-
policy issue was raised as to which the Board had not had an opportunity 
to express its views. 
After further discussion of limitations that would be appropriate, 
it was understood that the delegation of authority would reflect the 
foregoing views. 
The Legal Division's memorandum was accompanied by a draft 
letter of instructions to the Federal Reserve Banks concerning the ex-
ercise of the authority being delegated. Discussion included comments 
the relative merits of specifying in the letter or in the delegation 
itself the limits on the kinds of cases that might be decided by the 
• '• ... > 
1 r iv ; v. • • • ... • 
.. . ;
w ..... 
Reserve Banks. It was decided that the delegation should contain lim-
itations directed toward excluding conglomerate applications and cases 
that might set precedents. However, there was agreement that debt 
structure considerations, as they affected the power to act under del-
egated authority, should be discussed in the letter of instructions. 
Several members expressed themselves initially in favor of 
delegating authority to deny as well as to approve formation of one-
bank holding companies, with a procedure for appeals to the Board. 
U:j »...• 
( : W 
TJC 
i ' 
r^kr * •! '.i * iv K (->r 
tc-i.w. C h.. •• r./J'cC.ii 
However, others indicated a preference for retaining denial authority 
in the Board. Arguments against delegating the right to deny included 
views that the Reserve Banks would thus be given a near basic policy 
formation function; that the Board should at least establish a rationale 
for denials under which the Reserve Banks could gradually be given 

2115 
8/19/71 
-5-
power to act, if desired; that denials by twelve Banks might show such 
to oaukio^ thut th baak 
;yvo >r u; 
a spectrum of reasons that consistency would be hard to find; and that, 
whereas it was relatively easy to set standards for approval, it could 
not be foreseen what reasons for denial would emerge in the future. 
This part of the discussion resulted in agreement that denial authority 
would not be delegated. 
Recommendation 2: The Board should eliminate its present 
regulatory requirement that a holding company publish notice 
in a local newspaper of a de novo entry or acquisition of a 
finance company and file a formal application for the Board's 
approval if the proposal involves an acquisition, so long as 
the cost to the holding company of the transaction is less 
than $10 million (and the aggregate cost of such transactions 
in one yearbdoes not exceed $50 million). 
• . * - c-jftip 
cduj c.dcaioasfcc-utt* -tth.i$« ~b-jt 
ivv vrUi'jH*- t>i«3 
A majority of the Board members present indicated that they 
; L i e i - . 
favored the proposal. 
P| scua-jl^n .dkv/^icp^ly 
Sq t
t 
uha cxcs'fji ci7:i 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer expressed contrary views on 
5'l^iihv: 
ro 
iwvo eilCtfieS in';., th-.i >=:/<::.!•. t. 
if:,,,: i-tU,«iv 
the ground that a holding company would be free to acquire existing 
finance companies without any prior notice to the public or even to 
Co /c 
<r 
t^gn 
mJ 
:..... rt 
,tc 
a a I 
the Federal Reserve System. Provisions for later divestiture of an 
c.'if.!;i;,. . <! ; ,> *>,.}• ;.i Q:'i ? > • • 
tmO'i 
' .' bauid ht?> 1 ' "'."> ? : • OiI 
acquired company - a difficult and time-consuming procedure - would be 
the M .:rui chac, in cha 
qS c o ^ H i n ^ / wotw. it 
a n inadequate substitute for giving the public (or at least the Federal 
< , • 
- • 
• ... 
. j . , 
, 
, 
:, • ; , 
Reserve System) opportunity to object to such acquisitions before 
their consummation. 
Recommendation 3: The Board should eliminate its present 
regulatory requirement that a holding company publish 
notice of a proposed shift from a subsidiary bank to the 
holding company or a nonbank subsidiary thereof of an 

s
u
e 
8/19/71 
-6-
activity the Board has determined to be closely related 
to banking that the bank engages in either de novo or as 
a result of a bank merger. 
A majority of the Board members present indicated that they 
favored the proposal. 
Governor Robertson opposed this proposal on the ground that 
eliminat ion of the requirement for public notice would not be in the 
Public interest. 
Recommendation 4: The Board should eliminate its present 
regulatory requirement that a holding company publish 
notice of a proposed de novo entry or acquisition of a 
company to engage in all the kinds of insurance agency 
activities the Board recently determined to be closely 
related to banking, except in cases where the holding 
company must demonstrate that the community in which the 
insurance is to be sold has inadequate insurance agency 
facilities. 
Discussion developed agreement to limit the exemption from 
Published notice to de novo entries into the permitted insurance 
activities. 
Governor Robertson expressed opposition to the proposal, despite 
the compromise limitation to de novo entries. He based his opposition 
° n the ground that, in the absence of compelling reasons, it would be 
unwise to deprive the public of prior notice of a proposed acquisition 
and the opportunity to present comments or objections. 
The Board then approved the recommendations as revised, 
Qpvernor Robertson dissenting with respect to the second, third, and 
fourth recommendations, and Governor Brimmer dissenting with respect 

2i± 
8/19/71 
-7-
to the second recommendation. The proposals were put into effect 
i 
through amendments, effective September 1, 1971, to the Board's 
Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, and its Rules of Procedure and 
Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority. Attached under Item No. 4 
— 1 • 
are copies of the press release announcing the Board's action and 
o f the amendments as published in the Federal Register. The letter 
°f instructions to the Federal Reserve Banks regarding delegation 
°f authori ty to approve the formation of some one-bank holding com-
panies was also approved in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Request for reduced reserves. The First National Bank of 
Miami, Miami, Florida, had requested permission to maintain reserves 
authorized for banks not located in reserve cities. The bank con-
tended that the Federal Reserve check clearing facility being installed 
lrt Miami would eliminate the present check clearing role of First 
National, with a reduction in the bank's interbank balances to the 
Point where the conditions that had given rise to the original desig-
nation of Miami as a reserve city would no longer exist. 
In a memorandum dated August 17, 1971, the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations explored several alternatives, and recommended 
fchat the Board deny the request and inform the bank that further con-
sideration by the Board might be justified after the Miami clearing 
center had been in operation for a time. 

2118 
8/19/71 
-8-
Governor Mitchell spoke in favor of another alternative 
mentioned in the memorandum, in which action would be postponed while 
a study was made of the entire matter of the designation of reserve 
cities and resolution of related problems. There was no doubt that 
the classification criteria were obsolete. 
During the ensuing discussion comments were made on the status 
and his tory of efforts to arrive at a more equitable solution and of 
recommendations made to the Congress on the desirability of estab-
lishing a graduated system of reserve requirements. It had been 
understood that, if the Congress did not provide more specific author-
ity to adopt graduated reserve requirements, present law permitted 
least a partial move in that direction. 
Agreement developed for delaying action pending review of the 
0ver-all problem and presentation of staff recommendations. The 
question of informing First National of Miami of the reason for the 
delay was resolved in the negative, on the ground that an undue 
advantage might derive to the bank if it knew that consideration of 
revised standards and/or graduated reserve requirements was being 
activated. 
Action on the request was deferred. 
Boatmen's Bancshares. In a memorandum dated August 3, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, 

2119 
8/19/71 
-9-
to acquire shares of Bank of 0'Fallon, 0'Fallon, Missouri. At the 
meeting on August 17 questions were raised regarding the premium 
Proposed to be paid and the staff was requested to draft alternative 
language for a draft order that had been submitted. The Legal 
Division had responded to that request in a memorandum of August 18. 
At today's meeting further changes in the order were suggested, 
and the staff was requested to undertake a study of the general ques-
tion of the significance of premiums paid in bank mergers or bank 
acquisitions by holding companies. 
Action on the application was deferred. 
Charter New York Corporation. Today's agenda called for 
consideration of the application of Charter New York Corporation, 
New York, New York, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to 
Nanuet National Bank, Nanuet, New York. However, because of questions 
raised concerning the proposed premium, action was deferred. 
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Fair Credit Billing Act. After a discussion during which 
changes were agreed upon, the Board unanimously approved a letter to 
fche Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs regarding 
S- 652, the "Fair Credit Billing Act." A copy of the letter is 
afctached as Item No. 6. 
Natural Disaster Mitigation Act. Unanimous approval was given 
t o a letter to the Office of Management and Budget commenting on a 

2120 
8/19/71 
-10-
draft bill, the "Natural Disaster Mitigation Act of 1971." A copy 
°f the letter is attached as Item No. 7. 
Survey of debt securities. In a memorandum of August 17, 1971, 
Governor Mitchell referred to the 1970 amendments to Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, 
which concerned certain bank subordinated debentures or capital notes. 
It had been anticipated that the Board might delegate to the Reserve 
Banks authority to approve issuance of subordinated debentures under 
a general guideline. A variety of information about debt capital was 
needed to aid in the formulation of such a guideline. Governor Mitchell 
therefore proposed that a questionnaire in the form attached to the 
Memorandum be sent by the Federal Reserve Banks to all banks and bank 
holding companies known to have such debt. 
The Board unanimously approved the conducting of the survey 
111 the manner proposed. 
Reporting burden. The Board unanimously approved a letter 
for the signature of Governor Mitchell as Chairman of the Board's 
Committee on Financial Statistics, in reply to suggestions made by 
Walter B. Wriston, Chairman, First National City Bank, New York, 
New York, looking toward reducing the reporting burden on larger com-
mercial banks. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 8; a copy 
the enclosure to the letter has been placed in the Board's files. 

2121 
8/19/71 
-11-
Civil rights. With a memorandum of August 10, 1971, the 
Legal Division and the Division of Supervision and Regulation sub-
mitted a proposed statement of policy regarding the nondiscrimination 
Provisions of Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, particularly 
Section 805, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, 
color, religion, or national origin by any bank or other institution 
engaged in making commercial real estate loans. The statement would 
reaffirm the Board's responsibility to promote compliance with the 
Provisions of Title VIII by all State member banks engaged in real 
estate loan activities. The Divisions recommended that the Board 
give preliminary approval to the statement prior to its consideration 
by the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
The Board unanimously approved the statement as a tentative 
Position, although 
Governor Brimmer expressed the hope that the 
Position finally adopted by the Board would differ in some details. 
Liaison with U.S. Mint. The Board unanimously approved a 
recommendation by Governor Sherrill in a memorandum of August 13, 1971, 
f°r an in-depth study of designating the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations as the liaison for dealing with the U.S. Mint in regard 
t° coin requirements, including estimates of need, utilization of Reserve 
Sank vault space, scheduling of deliveries, and over-all coin supply. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Assistant Secretary 

Item No.2122 
8/19/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
approval of acquisition of 60 per 
ent or more of the voting shares of 
^estside Atlantic Bank of Orlando, 
rlando, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
i 
aection 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
(a)(3)).and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
C F R 222.3(a)), an application by Atlantic Bancorporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisi-
tio 
n of 60 per cent or more of the voting shares of Westside Atlantic 
fiank of Orlando ("Bank"), Orlando, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Commis-
® io 
n er of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
C°fftfiissioner recommended approval of the application. 

2123 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 9, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12927), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
W a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a H those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
t h e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
o f the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
a n d the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and 
fi*ds that: 
Applicant controls 17 banks with total deposits of $646 
m iUion, representing 4.6 per cent of the State's total deposits. 
banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding 
COrnPany formations and acquisitions approved through July 31, 1971.) 
Sin 
C G Bank is a proposed new bank, consummation of the proposal will 
n o t increase Applicant's share of total deposits in any market nor 
a f f e c t deposit concentration. 
Applicant presently controls 2 per cent of total deposits 
cne Orlando area, and its closest subsidiary to the proposed site 
Bank is 5-1/2 miles away in downtown Orlando. Since Bank will not 
°rganized if the application is denied, the Board concludes that 
Summation 
the proposal would not have significant adverse effects 
° n competition in any relevant area. 

2124 
-3-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are satisfactory and, there-
consistent with approval. Recent commercial and residential 
developments within Bank's proposed service area indicate some need 
f o r an additional banking office in the area. Accordingly, consid-
erations relating to the convenience and needs of the community to be 
Served lend some weight for approval. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
fch 
e application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, that 
S a i d application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisi-
tio 
n so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
Calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 
*ths after the date of this Order, and provided further that (c) 
Westcj-j j 
G Atlantic Bank of Orlando shall be open for business not later than 
Six m 
onths after the date of this Order. The periods described in 
a n d (c) hereof may be extended for good cause by the Board, or 
G Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, A u g u s t 1 9 > 
1 9 n > 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns, and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(signed) Normand Bernard 
Normand Bernard 
Assistant Secretary 

JLLCiu 
.^-V-jj f-y 
8/19/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
T 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., 
1 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 
' 
per cent or more of the voting shares 
1 
of Barnett Mall Bank, N. A., Winter 
1 
Park, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
? 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
("Applicant"), Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of Barnett Mall Bank, N.A. 
("Mall Bank"), Winter Park, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller responded that he recommended approval of the application. 

2 1 2 e 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on July 3, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12712), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant has 26 subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
of approximately $785 million, representing 5.6 per cent of the 
commercial bank deposits in Florida. 
(Banking data are as of 
December 31, 1970, and reflect holding company formations and acqui-
sitions approved by the Board through July 31, 1971.) Approval of 
the acquisition of Mall Bank would not presently increase Applicant's 
deposits since Mall Bank, as stated above, is a proposed new bank. 
Although Applicant presently has one subsidiary bank, 
First National at Winter Park ("First National"), located 1.4 miles 
from the proposed site of Mall Bank, the two institutions will service 
different customers. First National is located in downtown Winter 
7 
Fark and deals primarily with larger commercial interests while Mall 

ryA 
;•• •' ft 
-3-
Bank will be a neighborhood institution serving suburban residential 
and retail business customers. Moreover, First National has only 
10 per cent of the deposits in an area where the leading organization 
has over AO per cent of the deposits. Because of this, there seems 
little danger that Applicant will become the dominant factor in the 
Orlando area even with the addition of Mall Bank. Considering 
the present competition existing in the area, the Board 
concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
adversely affect competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Mall Bank are regarded as 
satisfactory. The establishment of Mall Bank would provide a more 
convenient banking location for many customers, and thus considerations 
related to the convenience and needs of the community lend some weight 
in favor of approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
and provided further that (c) Barnett Mall Bank, N. A., shall be 
open for business not later than six months after the date of this 

-4-
Order. The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended 
for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 19, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
V. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Normand Bernard 
ff 
Normand Bernard 
Assistant Secretary 
«c 
[SEAL] 

o 
Item 
8/19/71 
212 
No. j ~ 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In. the Matter of the Application of 
THE AMERICAN BANCSHARES OF MICHIGAN, INC., 
Kalamazoo, Michigan, 
approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of 
the successor by merger to The American r 
National Bank and Trust Company of 
Michigan, Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The American Bancshares of 
Michigan, Inc., Kalamazoo, Michigan, for the Board's prior approval 
0i: action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The 
^erican National Bank and Trust Company of Michigan ("Bank"), 
Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
I 
•i 

As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
fche Federal Register on June 16, 1971, (36 Federal Register 11617), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. 
A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
pu*pose of acquiring Bank as a subsidiary. (The proposed new bank 
into which Bank will be merged has significance only as a vehicle 
t o accomplish the acquisition of all of the voting shares less 
directors' qualifying shares of Bank; hence, the proposal to acquire 
v°ting shares of the successor by merger to Bank is treated as a 
Proposal to acquire voting shares of Bank.) Bank, which has deposits 

2131 
-3-
$166.1 million, is the second largest of four banking organizations 
in its banking market, which approximates Kalamazoo County, and has 
^proximately 32 per cent of the commercial bank deposits x^ithin 
^ e county and 0.5 per cent of total deposits in the State. (All 
inking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding com-
Pany formations and acquisitions approved through June 30, 1971.) 
Since Applicant has no present operations or subsidiaries 
since the proposed acquisition involves only a corporate teorgan-
Nation in the nature of a transfer of ownership of 3ank from indi-
viduals to a holding company, consummation of the proposal would 
eliminate neither existing nor potential competition and xjould not 
appear to have any adverse effects on any other bank in the area 
involved. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Sank are-regarded as satisfactory as would be those of Applicant 
uP°n acquisition of Bank. Consummation of the proposal would have 
immediate effects on the convenience and needs of the community, 
although the more flexible operational structure of a holding com-
ply may lead to benefits in the future. Considerations related 
c° the convenience and needs of the community as well as the financial 
anc* managerial resources and prospects of Bank and Applicant are 
insistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
aPplicatio n should be approved. 

It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 19, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Lo j •, t 
, 
' 
" 
1 
. 
. 
! -. • 
Absent and not voting; Governor Sherrill. 
(signed) Normand Bernard 
ilormand Bernard 
..Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 4 
8/19/71 
For immediate release 
August 24, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today a series of simplified procedures to expedite the 
handling of applications received under the Bank Holding Company Act. 
These new procedures, which are effective September 1, will 
apply to cases involving the formation of one-bank holding companies 
and to some types of bank-related activities in which holding com-
panies may engage. The number of applications in these fields has 
increased substantially since enactment of the 1970 amendments to the 
Act. 
As part of the new procedures, the Board delegated to the 
district Federal Reserve Banks the authority to approve the formation 
a holding company controlling only one bank. The authority to deny 
Such applications will remain with the Board. 
At the same time, the Board eliminated some of the steps 
vhich bank holding companies must now take in seeking to engage in 
Certain types of activities determined by the Board to be closely re-
nted to banking. 
Under procedures adopted in May, a bank holding company must 
a formal application to acquire an established concern--rather 
than set up its own company (de novo)--to engage in a bank-related 
activitv. Such a company must also publish notice in a local news-
Paper where it proposes to engage in a bank-related activity either 
j e novo or through an established company. 

2131 
The Board has concluded that these steps are unnecessary 
when factors involving the public interest will normally be favorable. 
Consequently, the Board exempted the following activities from these 
Procedures: 
1. Operating a finance company with assets of less than 
$10 million, so long as the aggregate cost of such transactions in 
one year does not exceed $50 million. 
2. Engaging in bank-related activities that are shifted 
from a bank in the holding company system to the holding company itself 
°r a nonbanking subsidiary. This would be limited to bank-related activ-
ities in which the bank was engaged either de novo or as the result of 
a bank merger. 
3. Engaging de novo in all kinds of insurance agency activities 
recently determined by the Board to be closely related to banking, 
except where the holding company must demonstrate that the community 
in which the insurance is to be sold has inadequate insurance agency 
facilities. 
A bank holding company is still required to notify its 
district Reserve Bank of its intentions 45 days before engaging in 
these activities. The only exception is where the holding company will 
operate a finance company with assets of less than $10 million. In that 
Case, notice is required within 30 days after consummation of the trans-
action but the Board could require divestiture whenever necessary to 
carry out the purposes of the Act. 
A copy of the regulatory amendments implementing the new 
procedures is attached. 
-2-

213: 
ml. 
TITLE 12—BANKS AMD BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 222—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
PART 262—RULES OF PROCEDURE 
PART 265—RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Simplification of Procedures 
The Board of Governors has under continuing review its procedures 
c 
r the discharge of its supervisory responsibilities. This is imperative 
the area of bank holding companies, where the number of applications for 
M 
board's approval of the formation of bank holding companies has increased 
substantially following the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
0 Board is also experiencing an increase in the number of requests for its 
QPproval of nonbanking activities pursuant to section 4(c)(3) of the Act. 
In the Board's judgment, one-bank holding company formations 
present no significant issues. The Board believes that the 
stions that arise can generally be handled by the Reserve Bank of the 
trict in which the holding company's bank is located, and that, because 
the absence of significant issues, publication of a formal order and 
stat , 
moment in one-bank holding company formation cases generally serves 
0 useful purpose. Accordingly, the Board has delegated the bulk of its 
v l0^ity to approve the formation of one-bank holding companies to the 
G r v e Banks and has dispensed with the publication of an order and 
anient in cases approved by a Reserve Bank. 

2136 
-2-
In May, the Board adopted procedures under which holding companies 
^ y engage in activities that the Board has determined, on the basis ox a 
rulemaking proceeding under section 4(c)(8) of the Act, are closely related 
t 0 banking. Those procedures differ depending on whether the activity is 
t o be engaged in de novo or through acquisition of a going concern. The 
former requires a holding company to publish notice of its proposal in a 
local newspaper; the latter requires a formal application, in addition to 
• . • V?,*, '<'< < ' 
, 
.
.
. 
A* 
8Ucb a notice. 
K 
( . ; 
The Board has reexamined those procedures in the light or 
Su8gestions made during the course of its recent rulemaking proceedings 
' ' V'i/.'' ' • > >, V 
t o implement section 4(c)(8). It has concluded that the procedures adopted 
itl May are unnecessary when the balance of the public interest factors 
the Board is required to consider in approving holding company activities 
0 r acquisitions on the basis of section 4(c)(8) will usually be favorable, 
insistently with that view, the Board has exempted from those procedures 
the following activities, subject to certain conditions: 
' 
... 
. . 
: 
. 
. 
• 
. 
(1) Operating a finance company with assets of less than 
$ X 0 million. 
i'i 
n 
1 
1 
(2) Engaging in activities the Board has determined are closely 
Elated to banking that are shifted from within the structure of a bank 
i n the holding company system to the holding company or a nonbanking 

^ 8 ! 
2 1 3 
& 
-3~ 
(3) Engaging de novo, in all kinds of insurance agency activities 
the Board has recently determined to be closely related to banking, except 
i u cases where the holding company must demonstrate that the community in 
^Uch the insurance is to be sold has inadequate insurance agency facilities. 
These exemptions are set forth in § 22.2.4(b)(3) below and become 
effective September 1, 1971. For supervisory reasons and to assure that 
1 i ' ' , 
there is n o misunderstanding with respect to the scope of activities that 
•Sjfev - . ;' .... . ... ' . . 
> 
, 
^ y he engaged in without complying with the procedures of § 222.4(b)(1) 
ar,d U), a holding company is required to notify its Reserve Bank 45 days 
bet°re shifting assets from a bank or engaging in insurance agency 
Activities. 
The Board's action with respect to insurance agency activities 
1q haaed on its experience under the provisions of section 4(c)(8) before 
th- W O amendments „ its conclusion that the Congress by the 1.970 amend-
^ t a did not place into question the propriety of the Board's earlier 
terminations, its view of its authority with respect to the public 
Uterest factors of the present law as indicated above, the fact that the 
aPproach of its recent determination relating to insurance agency activities 
Q B closely related to banking is similar to its approach under the former 
Action 4(c)(8), and its evaluation of the record of the recent rulemaking 
pt°ceeding relating to insurance agency activities. 
To accomplish the actions described above, the Board has amended 
i t o regulations as follows: 
X. Section 222.3(b) of Regulation Y is amended to read ac follows 
222.3 Acquisition of bank shares,, or assets. 
•k 
'k 
•>< 
* 

2138 
-4-
(b) Acl'ion on applications. Applications under this section 
a r e processed in accordance with the procedures specified in the Act and 
i n § 262.3 of the Board's Rules of Procedure (Part 262 of this Chapter). 
% application for the Board's approval of the formation of a company 
that controls only one bank may be consummated 45 days after the company 
h -
been informed by its Reserve Bank that its application has been 
unless the company is notified to the contrary within that time 
permitted to consummate the transaction at an earlier date. 
2. Section 222.4(b) is amended by adding subparagraph (3) to 
t e a d as follows: 
§ 290 / -
• * Nonbankim* activities. 
(b) * A * 
(3) Simplified procedures. 
(i) The procedures of subparagraphs 
and (2) of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to a holding 
°0lnPany or a subsidiary thereof engaging in the following: 
(a) making, acquiring, or servicing loans or other extensions 
Of 
credit for personal, family, or household purposes if the commencement 
1 GJ:Pansion of such activity does not involve an acquisition of assets 
million or more (or the acquisition of shares of a company having 
ouch assets) except that (1) no holding company may acquire more than 
$50 
million in assets in any calendar year under the provisions of this 
tiUj0» ^2) within 30 days after consummation of such an acquisition, the 
company informs its Reserve Bank of the acquisition (in substanti-
the same form a3 F.R. Y-4B), and (3) whenever necessary to effectuate 

2139 
he purposes of the Act, the Board may require suspension or discontin-
uation of any action taken, or divestiture of any acquisition made, on 
Quthorit.y of this provision and may withdraw such authority with respect 
t o any particular holding company; 
(b) engaging in activities described in § 222.4(a) that are 
8hifted from a bank in the holding company system and were engaged in by 
the bank either de novo 
or as a result of a merger transaction described 
iri and approved by a Federal supervisory agency pursuant to section 10(c) 
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), 45 days after 
0 holding company has informed its Reserve Bank of its proposal to shift sue 
activity (in substantially the same form as F.R. Y-4B)s unless the company 
is n°tified to the contrary within that time or is permitted to consummate 
M 
G transaction at an earlier date. 
(ii) The procedures of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall 
apply with respect to a holding company or a subsidiary thereof engaging 
cle D n 
as insurance agent or broker with respect to the types of insurance 
stG<* in subdivisions (i) , (ii), and (iii) (a) of subparagraph (a)(9) of 
s section, 45 days after the holding company has informed its Reserve 
its proposal to engage in such activity (in substantially the same 
f Oj^ 
a s F.R. Y-4B) , unless the company is notified to the contrary within 
that w 
or is permitted to consummate the transaction at an earlier date. 
A 
-k 
i( 
* 
>V 
3. Section 262.3(f)(1) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure is 
to read as follows: 

2140 
-6-
^ 
Applications, 
•A 
"k 
"k 
•k 
it 
(f) Rank holding company and merger applications. * * * 
(1) The Board issues each week a list that identifies holding 
c°topariy and merger applications received during the preceding week. Notice 
of 
9 
Rceipt of cach holding company application is published in the Federal 
^Bister. 
(4) Except with respect t:o actions taken pursuant to delegated 
^o^ity, the Board's action on an application is embodied in an Order 
• indicates the votes of members of the Board and (.1) states the reasons 
for **, 
n e Board's action or (ii) is accompanied by a separate Statement of 
Masons for the Board's action. Both the Order and any accompanying 
Stat 
C!^ei\t are. released to the press. Normally, the Statement is issued at 
the ti, of issuance of the Order. Where that is not practicable, the 
StatCT1 
--aierit is issued as promptly as possible. Each such Order is published 
in 
lQ federal Register, and each Order and Statement are published in the 
r 
OJ- Reserve Bulletin. 
F 
4. Section 265.2 of the Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority 
QTHh 
' ^nded by adding subparagraph (f)(22) to read as follows: 
S 
0 r 
" 
•gRgc.ific functions delegated to Board employees and Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
A 
Kach Federal Reserve Bank is authorized, as to member banks 
o>> 
v 
indicated organisations headquartered in ita district: 

-7-
2141 
c 
(22) Under the provisions of section 3(a)(1) of the Eank Holding 
ompany Act (12 U.S.C. 1842), to approve the acquisition by a company 
o f a controlling interest in the voting shares of one bank, if (i) no 
Ejection to the proposed acquisition has been made by the bank's super-
v*sory authority, (ii) no significant policy issue is raised by the proposal 
a a to which the Board apparently has not had an opportunity to express its 
V i C W s> a n d t 1 1 1) neither the holding company nor any of its subsidiaries or 
affiliates .is engaged in any activities other than those specifically 
Omissible for bank holding companies by either the Act or Part 222 of 
t h i3 chapter (Regulation Y). 
^ The provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, 
elating to notice and public participation and to deferred effective 
4 a t es, were not followed in connection with the adoption of these amend-
e n t s* 
T h e Board found that the issues presented were adequately explored 
injunction with its notice of proposed rule making published in the 
Register on January 29, 1971 (36 F.R. 1430) and concluded that 
furth 
U o 
er proceedings relating to this matter would serve no useful purpose. 
.Effective date. These amendments are effective as to applica-
n s filed with the Reserve Banks on or after September 1, 1971. 
By order of the Eoard of Governors, August 19, 1971. 
(Signed) Normand Bernard 
Normand Bernard 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL] 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
„ 
8/19/71 
2 1 4 2 
S-2171 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
August 20, 1971 
Sir-
Enclosed in Federal Register form is a copy of Amendments to 
Board's Regulation Y and to its Rules oi Procedure and Rules Regard-
delegation of Authority. The amendments are designed to simplify 
procedures for approving certain proposals by bank holding companies 
^ e r section 3(a)(1) and section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company 
The amendments become effective September 1, 1971. 
. 
Under the amendment to the Rules Regarding Delegation o£ 
*l'thority the Reserve Banks have, the basic responsibility for administer-
j^S section 3(a)(1) of the Act as it relates to the formation of one-bank 
c,Iding companies,, 
You will note that, under the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, 
^Plications for approval of the formation of one-banlc holding companies 
deemed t:o be approved 45 days after the application has been accepted 
y the Reserve Bank, unless the applicant is informed to the contrary within 
th*t time. 
o r 
The Board still expects to publish in the Federal Register notice 
^ the receipt of each application under section 3(a)(1). Consequently, a 
°Py of the application should continue to be mailed to the Board with an 
plication of the date upon which it was accepted. The Board's staff will 
onward to the Federal Register an appropriate notice with an indication 
j, Q t any comments on the application should be filed with the appropriate 
Reserve Bank by a specified date approximately 30 days after acceptance 
the application by the Reserve Bank, Notification of acceptance of an 
c
pPHcation should ba sent by the Reserve Bank to the Comptroller of the 
'Urrency or the appropriate State bank supervisor, as the case may be. 

2142 
Any action by a Reserve Bank approving an application under 
section 3(a)(1) should be reflected in a letter to the applicant that 
states the basis for such action. 
You will recall that from 1962 until 1969 the approach of the 
°ard's legislative recommendation to bring one-bank holding companies 
^i-thiiv the coverage of the Act was to require them to register and divest 
herrtselves of nonbanking interests but not to require Board approval for 
"e formation of such a company. This approach was based on the view 
1Qt the. danger at which the requirement of such approval was directed 
8 the possible use of the holding company to centralize control over a 
Jumber of banking institutions. Wo such centralization takes place, or 
8 threatened, when a corporation's ownership and control are confined 
0 the stock of one bank. 
During consideration of the 1970 amendments, there was some 
ttcern that permitting the formation of one-bank holding companies 
t o
 
u t prior approval might make administration of the Act with respect 
Ownership of bank stocks by interlocking partnerships more difficult 
an otherwise. There wan also concern that the financing of the holding 
^ ®Pany might not be. on a sound basis or that its formation might not be 
11 
equitable basis for all shareholders of the bankt 
For these reasons the Board did not recommend in 1970 an amend-
e
 n t to section 3 of the Act to avoid having to act on the formation of 
one-bank holding company. More recently its views on financing the 
j^tmation 
one-bank holding companies and protecting minority interests 
the bank have become firm. Consistently with those views, the Board 
tljPeCts tliat 
Reserve Banks will use their influence in exercising 
authority to approve the formation of one-bank holding companies 
0 assure that: 
0£ 
(i) if any offer to acquire shares is extended to shareholders 
the bank, the offer is extended to all shareholders of the same class 
equal basis; 
Von 
(ii) the amount borrowed by tha holding company to purchase the 
c ^ a r G 3 o C the bank does not exceed either 50 per cent of the pur-
c 
Price of the shares of the bank or 50 per cent of the equity 
pori*" o f tlle l l o l d i nS company, the loan will be repaid within a reasonable 
c0rn 
time (not to exceed 10 years), the interest rate on the loan is 
Com
PQrakle with other stock collateral loans by the lender to persons of 
o|. Parable crcdit standing, and the loan is not conditioned upon maintenance 
o f * correspondent bank balance with the lender that exceeds the usual needs 
lG bank whose shares are being purchased; and 

2144 
(iii.) interest on and amortization of the holding company's 
indebtedness will not exceed, in any year, 50 per cent of the holding 
company's proportionate share of the bank's anticipated net income 
(after taxes) for that year, unless a higher percentage is specifically 
approved by Che Reserve Bank at the time of the formation of the holding 
company. 
As with respect to all delegations of the Board's authority, 
a Reserve Bank may submit any application to the Board for its consid-
eration. Consistently with the terms of the delegation, this should be 
done jn those cases where the Board apparently has not had an opportunity 
t o express its views on an issue that is raised by an application and 
V7here the applicant is a nonbanking organization engaged in an activity 
that the Board lias not determined under section 4(c)(8) of the Act to 
be closely related to banking (or, even if it has, there is a question 
fchat approval of the formation of the holding company might, in the 
cj-rcumstances of the particular case, be contrary to the purposes of 
®cction 4) „ You may also wish to submit an application for action by 
Board if you believe that the Board should adopt a policy with respect 
t o a certain matter and the. policy should be applied uniformly throughout 
System. 
Please print and make appropriate distribution of the amendments 
itl the usual slip-sheet form. In this connection you may wish to conform 
your print of the Board's recent amendment specifying the types of 
insurance agency activities that are closely related to the editorial 
s-yl.e of subdividing used by the Federal Register and Code cf Federal 
Regulations. This is being done in the print prepared at the Board, For 
V^ur convenience, enclosed is a copy of the text of 5 222.4(a)(9) that is 
^eing used «s copy. 
For your information, we plan to reprint the regulation in the 
lnrger size afifcar the Board acts on its proposals relating to control and 
t o foreign banking. Such action is anticipated by the end of September 
8 0 that printed copies of the revised regulation can be expected for dist-
ribution between the first and middle of November 1971. Please wire the 
Sard's Publications Services of your requirements for the larger reprint. 
Very truly yours, 
/(!0'ui'Mt-<Jl H & 
I 
Hormand Bernard 
Assistant Secretary 
^closure a 
T ° THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AMD THE VICE PRESIDENTS 
CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

2 1 -15 
Item No. 6 
8/19/71 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
August 23, 1971 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing 
and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D.C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am happy to reply to your request of February 12, 1971, for the 
Board's views on S. 652, the "Fair Credit Billing Act." 
Some of the problems dealt with in the bill are definitely in need 
°f attention, but there is a possibility that legislation in the 
area, unless devised with great care, may involve greater disad-
vantages than benefits to consumers. For example, heavy expenses 
(some of which seem unavoidable and all of which ultimately will 
be borne by consumers) will be associated with some proposed 
requirements. Also, additional disclosure requirements may have 
the paradoxical effect of obscuring and deemphasizing those dis-
closures which are already being made under Truth in Lending. 
Several of the proposals in S. 652 affect very technical operations 
°f open end credit billing procedures. Since the Board is not an 
expert in the mechanics of billing operations, particularly where 
they do not involve banks, our comments are necessarily limited to 
those areas in the bill with which the Board has some familiarity, 
and where its comments may be helpful to the Committee. The Board's 
comments on the individual provisions of the bill are contained in 
the enclosed memorandum. 

2146 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
We understand that some of the issues treated in the bill are the 
subject of study by the National Commission on Consumer Finance, 
whose report is due in January. The problems with which S. 652 
deals are complex, and it would seem that the report of the 
Commission might have an important bearing on some of the problems 
to which the bill is addressed. 
Although the Board recognizes the seriousness of the problems to 
which the bill is directed and the possible need for legislation, 
it is, nevertheless, concerned because the bill would amend the 
Truth in Lending Act to extend the Board*s consumer protection 
responsibility. The Board is convinced that another agency, 
Presently existing or newly created, whose primary responsibilities 
encompass consumer protection, would be a more desirable choice as 
administrator of these provisions, should they be enacted, as well 
as of the present Truth in Lending disclosure provisions. Within 
this context, we are anxious to be as helpful as possible to the 
Committee as it studies the provisions of the bill. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

214 
AUGUST 19, 1971 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Memorandum Comments on S. 652 
The Fair Credit Billing Act 
^£ndm e n t t 0 6 i27CbU2> 
The Bill would amend § 127(b)(2) of the Truth in Lending Act 
by addlng a requirement that the card issuer identify on the periodic 
8tatement the "vendors and/or creditors involved" in each extension of 
Credit. The section presently requires a "brief identification (unless 
deviously furnished) of the goods or services purchased." The proposal 
W°uld delete the phrase "unless previously furnished." 
While the idea behind the requirement that the vendor or creditor 
e identified has merit, the wide geographical use of credit cards 
National as well as international) and the complexity of interchange 
tra 
factions may present serious practical problems. Of more concern, 
°^ever, is the deletion of the phrase which presently allows identifi-
ation of the goods or services purchased to be made at the point of sale, 
^it-H 
°ut repetition on the periodic statement. Under the present provision, 
Card issuer who uses descriptive billing, in which sales slips are not 
fned with the billing statement, may simply list the amount and 
date of 
° r each transaction on the statement if the original sales slip 
8iven 
c o the customer identifies the goods or services purchased. Any 
l0ns about the purchase can be resolved by comparison of the purchase 
8hov>n 
the statement with the sales slips given to the customer. 

2148 
.1 
-2-
One effect of requiring identification of the vendor and the 
Soods or services purchased on (or perhaps with) the periodic statement 
nay be to seriously impede the use of "descriptive" billing, as an 
alternative to "country club" billing. In "descriptive" billing the 
transaction is briefly identified on the periodic statement which is not 
Accompanied by copies of the sales slips. In "country club" billing 
C0Pies of the sales slips are included which serve to identify the 
transactions, usually more fully than in "descriptive" billing. If the 
Proposal had the effect of prohibiting descriptive billing it could 
frnstrate the efforts of the bank credit card industry to eliminate the 
Efficient handling and transmission of a large volume of sales slips. 
C°mPlete reliance on electronic processing is essential to the large 
8cale use of credit cards. The parallel sorting of sales slips required 
in 
country club billing seems to be unnecessary and extremely costly. 
The Bill also amends § 127(b) of the Act to require that 
^riodic statements contain an address and telephone number for use 
h the cardholder in making inquiries about his billing statement, 
^closure must also be made of the customer's rights and creditor's 
^ti e s u n d e r t h e n e w p r o p o s e (j Section 161 dealing with notification 
4 errors on billing statements. Viewed simply from the point of view 
tllQt the cardholder should be provided with as much information as 
^°8aible about his account, both provisions would appear to have 
iffj 
r 

214 
-3-
^erit. Many creditors already provide an address and telephone number 
billing inquiries, and, in any event, the information could be added 
with a minimum of burden. However, the requirement of notification on 
billing statements of the riphts and obligations extended by the new 
killing error provision may further complicate billing statements, to 
th 
e general detriment of the majority of cardholders. The information 
n o w required by statute to be disclosed on the periodic billing statement 
extensive and complex. This raises the question whether additional 
information may be more confusing than helpful, especially where the 
inf 
°rmation has already been given when the account is opened, as also 
ec)nired by S. 652. The problem is compounded when cash advances and 
^Urchase accounts are combined, and when automatic data processing cards 
e u t i H z e d as statements. Full disclosure of the rights and obligations 
n the event of billing errors seems desirable as part of the opening 
isclosures as proposed, but it would seem that Congress should be 
aUti°us about requiring additional information to be incorporated into 
Periodic statement thus further complicating it. 
^ ^ £ o r r e c t i o n of billing errors 
Under this provision consumer complaints about billing statement 
r s must be acknowledged within 10 days and the card issuer must correct 
the a ccount within 30 days, or send the cardholder an explanation with 
<i°cUm entary evidence of the accuracy of the account. Failure to comply 

2150 
-4-
with the provision means forfeiture of the amount in controversy. If the 
Q m° U n t was inaccurate, the creditor is liable for actual damages, $100 or 
thr 
times the amount in controversy whichever is greater, and court 
COsts and attorneys' fees. 
The requirement of acknowledgment and correction of billing 
8tatement errors within a specified period will offer needed relief to 
c°nsumers in their efforts to seek clarification of statements and 
c°rrection of errors. However, additional time may be required for 
Cre<litors to process inquiries, particularly where bank interchange 
ty 
ansactions are involved. Moreover, allowing additional time for the 
Cre<Htor's initial acknowledgment may enable him to resolve the controversy 
transmit a single correction or explanation, without the necessity 
r the two-step procedure contemplated by the present wording of the section, 
question arises as to the creditor's ability to provide "docu-
Rlentary evidence" in all cases, for example, where there is no evidence of 
p*Vment. 
It should be recognized that the provision would not cover open 
creditors who do not extend "consumer credit" under the Truth in Lending 
Act ' Consequently, issuers of travel and entertainment cards which require 
P9 Vm ent within 30 days and do not impose a finance charge (but whose 
°unts are nevertheless subject to billing errors) would not be covered 
by tt 
n e Present provision. 
There would seem to be a question whether the severity of the 
ctions in § 161(b), which do not recognize a creditor's bona fide efforts 
c°mply a n d t h e p0ss:|.kle inadvertence of error, are necessary to assure 
te<Htor compliance. 
fk 

2151 
-5-
Length of billing period 
Under the proposal, open end creditors offering a "free ride" 
pe*iod would be prohibited from imposing a finance charge unless the billing 
8tatement was mailed at least 21 days prior to the date payment must be 
1110(16 to avoid imposition of finance charges. Although the 21 day period 
^ y be feasible for large creditors with computer facilities, smaller 
Editors using manual equipment may be unable to satisfy this requirement. 
Th 
e 21 day period also may leave little leeway for computer malfunction, 
c°rrection of errors, holidays and other occasional situations which would 
necessitate a longer period for preparation of the statement. Therefore, 
c s s restrictive provision may be appropriate. 
The provision could possibly have the negative effect of encouraging 
Creditors to restructure their plans to delete the free ride period. 
^•^L£redit for partial payments 
This provision would require that in determining the balance 
UpQn which the finance charge is computed, the creditor must reduce the 
l n8 balance in the account at the beginning of the billing cycle by 
^ducn 
L l n8 all payments and credits made during the cycle. This is 
rasted with the "previous balance method," used by many creditors, 
the finance charge is assessed on the opening balance, without 
ta^ 
8 into account partial payments or credits during the period. Under 
the 
devious balance method, even though a cardholder paid $50 against 
9 tot-
balance due of $100, the finance charge would be assessed on the 
f U U $1°0 for the cycle. 

2152 
-6-
The Truth in Lending Act requires creditors who use the previous 
method to specifically disclose that fact to consumers. As a result, 
ttle Board's Truth in Lending staff has observed that its use, which has been 
br°ught to the public's attention by Truth in Lending, has prompted numerous 
c°ftsumer complaints in view of its appearance of inequity. Consequently, 
the Provision in S. 652 which would prohibit the previous balance method is 
lilcely to have considerable popular appeal. It would seem that the principle 
°n ^hich this provision is based is sound and reasonable. However, since 
the Provision is applicable only to plans involving a free ride period, the 
Pr°vt8ion may encourage the elimination of that consumer benefit. Furthermore, 
Wording of the provision would appear to eliminate use of the "average 
dallV balance" method used in conjunction with a free ride, which is generally 
Warded as an equitable method for both creditors and consumers. 
^^J^rohibition of minimum charges 
This provision prohibits open end creditors from imposing 
^ i m u m finance charges. Since the effect of the Truth in Lending disclosure 
Pr°vislons has generally been to limit minimum charges to 50^, there is 
a ^stiori whether further Federal legislation is warranted. It would appear 
t6asonable for the creditor to be compensated for sending out an extra 
b l l l ing statement which would not have been necessary had the customer paid 
8 m a U balance in full, 
^ p r o h i b i t i o n of offsets 
Credit card issuers are prohibited by this provision from 
°ffsetting a cardholder's indebtedness against funds of the cardholder 
h e l d on deposit with the card issuer. This is a broad prohibition 

215' 
-7-
vHch is not limited to amounts in dispute, and could be construed to 
aPPly to any indebtedness of the cardholder to the card issuer, however 
it may arise. It would seem that the prohibition against offsets might 
limited to amounts in dispute. 
editing Excess Payments 
This provision specifies that the consumer is entitled to a 
tefund of any credit balance, and that he be so notified on the periodic 
8tatement. While a customer's right to a refund should be specifically 
brought to his attention, it might be appropriate that such disclosure be 
upon opening the account rather than requiring that the additional 
inf 
tormation be placed on the periodic statement. 
of credit customers 
This section provides that a card issuer shall be subject to all 
claims and defenses arising out of any transaction in which the credit 
C a r d is used as a method of payment or extension of credit. The provision 
is 
Presumably designed to preserve the consumer's leverage of withholding 
paVnient i n connection with merchandise disputes. However, as drafted to 
include "all claims and defenses arising out of any transaction in which 
credit card is used" it might be construed to subject the card issuer to 
Pt°duct liability and tort claims arising from use of the merchandise and 
not u 
D e limited to merely the purchase price of the product or its unpaid 
3lance. We understand that many transactions in which a bank credit card 
i8 
U s ed are interchange transactions which take place outside of the Immediate 
Gtvicc area of the issuing bank. Furthermore, in a large number of 
VI 
\l\
U 

215* 
-8-
P^rchases, credit cards are conveniently used for small purchases as merely 
a substitute for cash or check. These types of transactions are not viewed 
in the traditional sense of credit, but would be subject to this section. 
^°nsequently, it would seem proper to revise this section taking into 
account these considerations. 
^-IZiLUse of cash discounts 
This section specifies that a card issuer may not prohibit a 
S eUer from offering a discount for payment in cash in lieu of using a 
Cre<Ht card. It also provides that any discount not in excess of 51 
need n o t b e considered a finance charge to those using credit. With 
re£ard to the first provision, it seems appropriate that sellers have the 
to give discounts for cash if they wish. However, in doing 
So questions are raised under the Truth in Lending Act whether such a 
^scount which is not available to credit card customers is a finance 
The second proposal would answer this question with respect to 
SUch discounts not in excess of 5%. 
•^ZLgivil penalties 
This section imposes penalties of actual damages, punitive 
j 
ania&es, court costs and attorneys' fees for failure to comply with the various 
SGctions of the Bill (except § 161). It is suggested that provisions be 

2155 
-9-
added In the nature of § 130(c) of the Truth in Lending Act and § 23(a) 
o f the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to insure that a creditor does 
n°t become liable for an inadvertent error despite bona fide efforts 
to insure compliance. To avoid having two sections dealing with civil 
Penalties, it may be preferable to amend § 130, rather than adding § 171. 
Elective Date 
i); ' 
The Bill would be made effective 180 days after the date of its 
enQctment. In view of the need for regulations involving research, 
drafting, publication for comments, and final promulgation and the need 
r industry lead time to reprogram computers and reprint forms, it is 
Su88ested that the effective date be deferred to at least 12 months, and 
^ferably 18 months, after enactment. 

'f^LRESf:--
21 
Item No. 7 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R 5 
8/19/71 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
August 20, 1971 
Mr. C. William Fischer 
Office of Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Fischer: 
This refers to your Legislative Referral Memorandum dated 
August 2, 1971, requesting the Board's views on a draft bill, the 
Natural Disaster Mitigation Act of 1971, "To require as a ccmdltion 
of eligibility for all forms of Federal financial a s s l s t ^ e g a t i n g 
to the acquisition, development, construction, or improvement of land 
and facilities for public or for private industrial, commercial or 
residential use that suitable precautions be taken to prevent or 
reduce future losses from earthquake, floods, or mudslides, and tor 
other purposes." 
The major provisions of the proposed legislation relate 
to matters outside the Board's area of responsiblity and the Board 
has no comments to offer with respect to them. Section 7 of the 
draft bill, however, provides the following: 
Sec 7 (a) All Federal instrumentalities 
responsible for the supervision, approval, regulation, 
or insuring of banks, savings and loan associations, 
or similar institutions, shall take a p p r o p r i a t e measures 
to assure that, insofar as feasible, the f:inancial insti-
tutions they supervise, regulate, or insure, specifically 
evaluate mortgage loan and other loan assistance applica-
tions to determine whether the property involved is sub 
ject to flood, earthquake, or mudslide hazards, so as to 
minimize the risk of loss to such institutions resulting 
from such causes. 
i 

Mr. C. William Fischer 
- 2 -
2157 
(b) Such Federal instrumentalities' shall direct 
their lending institutions to require the purchase of 
flood insurance by mortgages in identified areas having 
special flood hazards, and to encourage the purchase of 
other appropriate forms of hazard insurance with respect 
to mortgage loans secured by properties located in other 
areas that have been formally identified by the responsible 
Federal agency as hazard-prone, wherever such coverages 
are available. 
(c) The term "Federal instrumentalities responsible 
for the supervision, approval, or regulation of banks, 
savings and loan associations, or similar institutions" 
shall include the Federal Reserve System, the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and the 
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. 
The Board is concerned with the losses to lending institutions 
and to borrowers that may result from damage to property that is offered 
as security for a loan. To the extent that the above-quoted section 
of the draft legislation may minimize such losses caused by natural 
disasters, the Board supports its objectives. The Board questions, 
however, whether it is appropriate to single out hazard insurance as 
a proper subject for Federal legislation, since the type of insurance 
required by a lending institution is only one of several factors considered 
in determining the suitability and soundness of a particular loan. More-
over, the type of hazard insurance contemplated by the above section may 
be unavailable in certain sections of the country or its costs may be 
Prohibitive. 
Two technical changes should be made in Section 7. In the 
third line of paragraph (b), it is suggested that "mortgagors" be 
substituted in lieu of "mortgages", and in paragraph (c), it is 
suggested that "Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System" 
be substituted in lieu of "Federal Reserve System". 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Normand Bernard 
Normand Bernard 
Assistant Secretary 

CO I'/: * • 
mil? 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2PB5I 
Item No. 
8/19/71 
G E O R G E W. MITCHELL. 
MEMBER or THE DCARO 
August 20, 1971. 
Mr. Walter B. Wriston, 
Chairman, 
First National Ci.ty Bank, 
,399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Dear Walter: 
Your letter of June 17 to Chairman Burns raised 
questions with respect to reporting burden both at a general 
level and in connection with a number of specific reports. 
Your letter and the. attachments to it were referred to me 
as chairman of the Board5 s Committee on Financial Statistics, 
the other members of which are Governors Daane and Brimmer. 
We and our staff have looked into the issues you 
have raised with some care and in detail. X am writing to 
you now to convey our reactions to your questions and 
suggestions relating to specific reports. The detailed 
reactions are contained in the enclosed staff memorandum. 
Yc >u will note that the responses to your specific requests 
are mixed. In some cases, there is little that we can do 
to reduce the reporting requirements at this time; in others, 
we can report steps we have already taken, or about to take, 
th at will result in some reduction; in one case, judgment has 
been deferred. While we can thus indicate some fairly 
immediate reductions in reporting burden along the lines of 
your inquiries, most oi the forms cited in your letter are 
closely related to Federal Reserve regulatory and policy 
responsibilities or to Treasury operations. Overall, there 
is little prospect for a major reduction in your compliance 
costs. 
The problem of reporting burden on banks is, of 
course, an important one and X assure you that we take it 
seriously. We go to considerable pains trying to avoid 

i ' 
2isr 
9 _ 
adding unnecessarily to that burden. System procedures governing 
reporting requirements lay much stress on respondent burden. 
We have on occasion refrained from asking for information that 
would be valuable to us in the discharge of our responsibilities 
because of the heavy reporting costs involved. We keep our 
reporting requirements under continuing surveillance to avoid 
collecting information that is no longer needed. It is in out-
own interest, as well as yours, that we keep down the reporting 
burdens imposed upon banks. 
Nevertheless, the basic problem remains that the System 
does require a substantial amount of information to carry out 
its responsibilities, which are large in mmibor and diverse in 
character. Both the Federal Reserve and, ] assume, the commercial 
banks have the greatest interest in making sure that Federal 
Reserve policy is based on reliable and adequate, information even 
though the bank reporting involved results in significant compliance 
costs. The major money market banks, like the FNCB, whose 
activity,, reach into every area of the Board's foreign and 
omectic policy and supervisory responsibilities are, because of 
their very size and diversity, particularly subject to calls for 
^formation. It is unlikely that these calls for information, 
l n the aggregate, will decrease. Indeed, because of a number of 
jcceUt developments, our needs for information have been increasing 
, - l a s t 
years and will undoubtedly continue to increase in 
the future. 
l n these circumstances, it is our view that significant 
reductions in the reporting burdens borne by banks im: t be sought. 
through simp 1if y i 
ng and systematizing our reports and reporting 
Procedures so that they can be tied into bank automated information 
'J.Vstems. We have underway a number of projects 
seme with 
ong-term and some with short-term horizons -- directed toward 
a-s end. One of these is a joint effort with a group of 
°Presen tat Ives fr«ri commercial banks -- the Steering Committee 
Bank Information. The present commercial bank membership of 
^is group is Robert Wilmouth (First National Bank of Chicago), 
10 Is chairman of the etou 
Grab, 
Russell Fenwick (Bank of America); 
Pbzier (Wachovia Bank and Trust Company); James C. Cooper 
Trust Company) ; David M. Ahlers (Bankers Trust Company); 
Ca!Gi?h A' 
and Southern National Bank); W. Thomas 
(R 
,Ci) r y ( C r o c k c r Citizens National Bank) ; John C. Farrell 
^ p u b l i c National Rank of Dallas); and Gordon 15. Cutler (now 
Sjn
3.l0d irc:n Citizens and Marine Bank of Newport News, Virginia). 
Inf00 J ° l m R e e d 
bt?Gn d o i n S s o rnuch effective work in the 
to H r i i a U ° n n r e a > 1 t h i n k lt: w o u l t i b e he:iPj/'ul to get his reaction: 
h G directions we have taken with this group. 

2160 
-3-
X:C there is any question at all about our reply to 
your letter or any further commenta on our reporting require 
ments, please do not hesitate to get in touch with us. If 
John wants to visit us we would be delighted to see him. 
Sincerely yours. 
/C 
Geo jvg fJ 
i'< I y h e 11 
Enclosure. 
