MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 15, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 15, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions who had been present 
except Mr. Axilrod and Mr. Norwood of the Division of International 
Finance then withdrew from the meeting, as did Messrs. Broida and 
Morgan, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

O f )*•>"} 
^ / 
9/15/69 
-2-
Mr. Harris, Coordinator of Defense Planning 
Mr. 0'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Marinaccio and Noble, and Mrs. Duerson 
of the Legal Division 
Mr. Lawrence of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Brumbaugh and Burton of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on September 8 and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, and Dallas on September 11, 1969, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Bank of Sussex County, 
Franklin, New Jersey, into National Community Bank of Rutherford, 
Rutherford, New Jersey, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition existing 
between The Bank of Sussex County, Franklin, and 
National Community Bank of Rutherford although 
there is some potential for increased competition 
between them. The overall competitive effect of 
the proposed transaction would be slightly adverse. 
Charter New York. Issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on August 13, 1969, of the application of Charter 

O r >«./» 
9/15/69 
-3-
New York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to Scarsdale National Bank and Trust Company, 
Scarsdale, New York, was authorized. Copies of the documents are 
attached under Item No. 1. 
Valley Bancorporation. 
Issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on August 27, 1969, of the application 
of Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of The 
New American Bank of Oshkosh, Oshkosh, Wisconsin, was authorized. Copies 
of the documents are attached under Item No. 2. 
Jefferson Bancorp. After a discussion during which the staff 
advised that there was no indication that a certain minority stockholder 
of the two proposed subsidiary banks (and of the holding company) who 
had been sentenced to a prison term for forgery and also was under 
indictment for tax fraud would in the future be in a position to exercise 
influence in the operations of the holding company or its banks, the 
application of Jefferson Bancorp, Inc., Miami Beach, Florida, to become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of Jefferson 
National Bank of Miami Beach, Miami Beach, Florida, and Jefferson National 
Bank at Sunny Isles, Sunny Isles, Florida, was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
action would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Report on mobilization activities. The Board approved unanimously 
a letter to Chairman Sparkman of the Joint Committee on Defense Production 

9/15/69 
-4-
in response to his request for a report summarizing the mobilization 
activities of the Board and the Federal Reserve Banks for the year 
ended June 30, 1969. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3; 
a copy of the report transmitted therewith has been placed in the 
Board's files. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Travel accident insurance. In a memorandum of September 10, 
1969, the Division of Personnel Administration concurred in a proposal 
by the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks that the 
System travel accident insurance contract, covering both Board and 
Reserve Bank employees, be amended to include total and permanent 
disability coverage. 
The additional coverage was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that the three-year premium for the amended coverage, 
estimated at $3,700, would be allocated to the Reserve Banks and the 
Board of Governors on a per capita basis. A copy of the letter sent 
to the Chairman of the Conference of Presidents pursuant to this action 
is attached as Item No. 4. 
Officer at Chicago. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago approving the appointment of 
Carl E. Bierbauer as Senior Vice President effective November 1, 1969, 
and payment of salary to him during the period November 1 through 

9/15/69 
-5-
December 31, 1969, at the annual rate fixed by the Bank's Board of 
Directors. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
Retention of officers and employees. The comtemplated revision 
of the benefits of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks 
was expected to become effective January 1, 1970. With that in mind, 
the letter referred to above with respect to Mr. Bierbauer also 
reflected approval of the retention in active service of Laurence H. 
Jones, an officer of the Chicago Bank who normally would have effected 
retirement on November 1, 1969, until December 31, 1969, with title of 
Senior Adviser and salary at his current annual rate. 
The Board now approved unanimously a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland (copy attached as Item No. 6) approving the 
retention in active service until the end of the year of two officers 
of that Bank who normally would have effected retirement October 1, 
1969, with salary continued in each case at the current annual rate. 
The letters to the two Banks indicated that the approval was 
being given with the understanding that the same privilege would be 
extended to any nonofficer employee similarly situated. 
The Board requested that it be made known to the other Reserve 
Banks that if in their employ there were officers or employees who 
would normally effect retirement prior to the end of this year but who 
would benefit under the proposed revision of the Retirement System from 
retention in active service until the end of the year, the opportunity 

2831 
9/15/69 
-6-
to continue in service until such time should be offered to them. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Reserve Banks in this regard is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
(Note: Attached as Items 8 and 9 are copies of letters sub-
sequently sent to the Federal Reserve Banks of Minneapolis and Dallas 
approving the retention in active service through the end of the year 
of certain officers (one at Minneapolis and two at Dallas), with 
salary continued in each case at the current annual rate.) 
Appointment of President at Philadelphia. It was reported that 
the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia had 
acted, subject to the approval of the Board of Governors, to appoint 
David P. Eastburn as President of the Bank effective March 1, 1969, 
for the unexpired portion of the five-year term ending February 28, 
1971. From the report it was not clear that the directors had as yet 
fixed an annual salary rate for Mr. Eastburn as President. The directors 
were said to be deferring a decision on the selection of a First Vice 
President so that they could take into account, among other factors, 
the views of Mr. Eastburn, assuming his appointment as President was 
approved. 
The appointment of Mr. Eastburn was approved unanimously. As 
to his salary rate, a suggestion was made that there be informal 
communication with the Philadelphia directors to avoid any possible 
misunderstanding with respect to a level that would be satisfactory 

2 8 3 2 
9/15/69 
-7-
both to the directors and to the Board of Governors. A further 
suggestion was made that it might be useful, in connection with filling 
the post of First Vice President, if there could be some type of 
informal clearance before formal action was taken by the directors. 
A copy of the letter informing the Philadelphia Bank of approval 
of Mr. Eastburn's appointment is attached as Item No. 10. 
Truth in lending. In response to a question that had been 
raised at an earlier Board meeting, Governor Sherrill presented a 
compilation of costs incurred by the Federal Reserve System up to 
July 1 of this year in connection with administration of the truth 
in lending legislation. The overall estimate of $1,071,000 was believed 
by Governor Sherrill probably to be on the conservative side. 
It was understood that the compilation would be made available 
to the other members of the Board. 
Credit cards. Chairman Martin spoke of having received a 
considerable volume of correspondence and other inquiries with regard 
to practices reportedly followed in connection with the promotion and 
distribution, including unsolicited distribution, of credit cards by 
banks and other issuers of such cards. The Chairman indicated that he was 
rather concerned about the alleged practices, particularly on the part 
of banks, from the standpoint that they reflected promotion of the use 
of credit in a period when the Federal Reserve was following a policy 
of monetary restraint in an attempt to combat inflationary pressures. 

2833 
9/15/69 
-8-
After other Board members had expressed themselves in a some-
what similar vein, Governor Brimmer reported that he had been working 
with the staff to gather information with respect to credit card 
developments, especially as they related to bank credit cards, during 
the period since last fall. After outlining the nature of some of 
the preliminary findings, he said that a report on the investigation 
would be made available to the Board shortly as a basis for considera-
tion of the situation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
<" r< ; (•;(.'> 0 C 
--Ci'C J*'o ".J 3 *.••• 
. >\k> . 
•J „C , 1 
('*•>. Fi;vi 
.>rt >'>V V.; c C 

2834 
Item No. 1 
9/15/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Hatter of the Application of 
1 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION, 
1 
New York, New York, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of voting 
' 
shares of the successor by merger to 
1 
Scarsdale National Bank and Trust Company, 
1 
Scarsdale, New York. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK BY 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter New York 
Corporation, New York, New York, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Boardfs prior approval of the acquisition of all (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the outstanding voting shares of a new national 
bank into which it is proposed that Scarsdale National Bank and Trust 
Company, Scarsdale, New York, will be merged. 

As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller's views 
are consistent with approval of the application. 
As discussed in the accompanying Statement, the New York State 
Banking Board approved an application involving the same proposal in 
accordance with a recommendation of the New York State Superintendent of 
Banks, and advised this Board of its action. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 17, 1969 (34 Federal Register 9472), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 15th day of September 1969. 

2836 
-3-
i 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman liartin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2837 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION 
OF VOTING SHARES OF THE SUCCESSOR BY MERGER 
TO SCARSDALE NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, 
SCARSDALE, NEW YORK 
STATEMENT 
Charter New Yoric Corporation, New York, New York ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, for 
prior approval of the acquisition of all (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the outstanding voting shares of a new national bank into 
which it proposes to merge Scarsdale National Bank and Trust Company, 
Scarsdale, New York ("Scarsdale National"). The new national bank has 
no significance except as a vehicle for accomplishing the acquisition of 
the bank to be merged into it; the proposal is therefore treated herein 
as one to acquire shares of Scarsdale National. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller's views are consistent with 
approval of the application. 

2 8 3 8 
-2-
Pursuant to the requirements of Article III-A of the 
New York Banking Law, Applicant submitted an application involving the 
same proposal to the New York State Banking Board. The Banking Board 
approved the application on August 6, 1969, in accordance with the 
recommendation of the New York Superintendent of Banks, a copy of 
which was transmitted to the Board of Governors. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other 
proposed acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, 
may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant is 
the eighth largest banking organization and the third largest bank 

2839 
-3-
holding company in the State of New York.-^ It has five subsidiary 
banks, which hold about $4 billion in deposits, or 4.8 per cent of 
the total amount of deposits held by all banks in the State. 
Acquisition of Scarsdale National, which has $69 million in deposits, 
would increase Applicant's share of State deposits to 4.9 per cent. 
Scarsdale National is headquartered in the Village of Scarsdale 
(population 20,000), in Uestchester County. It also has one branch in 
Scarsdale, and three branches in adjacent tox/ns; its service area, from 
which it derives about 80 per cent of its deposits and loans, consists 
of Scarsdale and portions of surrounding towns. Scarsdale is also the 
site of one office of County Trust Company ($361 million deposits), 
which is the largest bank in Uestchester County and is a subsidiary of 
a bank holding company. Under the "home office protection" feature of 
the New York branching law, however, Scarsdale National is the only 
bank presently able to establish new branches in Scarsdale. 
Scarsdale National ranks fifth in size among six banks 
headquartered in Uestchester County, and is the eleventh largest of 
12 banks with offices in the county. Westchester County is located in 
New York's Third Banking District. It is also part of the New York 
metropolitan area, and, as such, is part of the legal branching area of 
New York City banks, as well as banks headquartered in the Third District. 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of December 31, 1968, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company acquisi-
tions and mergers approved by supervisory authorities to date. 

2840 
-4-
Of Applicant's present subsidiaries, one (Dutchess Bank and 
Trust Company, with $33 million in deposits) is located in the Third 
Banking District in Poughkeepsie, Dutchess County. Its closest office, 
however, is about 60 miles north of Scarsdale, and it does not compete 
with Scarsdale National. Applicant's largest subsidiary is Irving Trust 
Company ($3.7 billion deposits), which is a primarily wholesale bank, 
all 12 offices of which are located in New York City. The nearest 
offices of Irving Trust Company and Scarsdale National are 22 miles 
apart. Irving Trust Company derives only about $3 million of deposits 
and about the same amount of loans from Scarsdale National's service 
area, which amounts are not regarded as competitively significant. 
With regard to potential competition, Westchester County is 
within the legal branching area of both Dutchess Bank and Trust Company 
and Irving Trust Company. Neither bank appears to be a likely entrant 
into that area, however, based, in the case of Dutchess Bank and Trust 
Company, on its size and geographical location, and, in the case of 
Irving Trust Company, on the historical patterns of its operations. 
Moreover, in view of the fact that Scarsdale National serves only a 
limited portion of the county, and is protected against branching by 
other banks in much of that area, it is unlikely that branching by 
either of the present subsidiaries would result in significant competi-
tion with Scarsdale National. 
Consummation of the proposal, on the other hand, would 
eliminate home office protection from the Village of Scarsdale, a 

2S41 
- s -
wealthy residential community to which other banks would likely be 
attracted. By facilitating a strengthening and broadening of the services 
offered by Scarsdale National, and by making feasible more extensive 
branching by the bank, it would also increase that bank's capability as 
a competitor to larger banks in Westchester County. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any area, and x/ould not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant and its 
subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactory. The financial condition 
of Scarsdale National is reasonably satisfactory, and its management is 
competent. Prospects of the bank, which appear favorable in any event, 
would be improved further in the event of consummation of the present 
proposal. 
These considerations are consistent with approval of the 
application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consummation 
of the proposal would have no effect on customers served by Applicant's 
Present subsidiary banks. 

2 8 4 2 
-6-
The Village of Scarsdale is a high income residential community, 
the majority of the residents of which commute daily to employment in 
New York City. Major banking needs of the Scarsdale area are adequately 
met by the numerous banks in the New York metropolitan area. Scarsdale 
National, however, does not have as broad a service offering as other 
banks serving its area, which are precluded from establishing branches 
in Scarsdale because of restrictions of State law. Those restrictions 
would no longer be applicable if Scarsdale National becomes a subsidiary 
of Applicant. The convenience of residents of the Scarsdale area would 
be increased by the likely establishment of more accessible offices of 
other banks, as well as by improvements which Applicant proposes to make 
in the services offered by Scarsdale National. 
These considerations provide some support for approval of the 
application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
September 15, 1969. 

2 8 4 3 
Item No. 
1 
2/15/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
VALLEY BANCORPORATION, 
1 
Appleton, Wisconsin, 
1 
For approval of acquisition of 
1 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
1 
shares of The New American Bank 
1 
of Oshkosh, Oshkosh, Wisconsin., 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, 
Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The New American Bank 
of Oshkosh, Oshkosh, Wisconsin, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking of the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and 
recommendation thereon. In response, the Commissioner interposed 
no objection to approval of the application. 

2844 
u2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 7, 1969 (34 Federal Register 12850), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposals A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. The time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time shall be extended for good cause by the Board 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D, C., this 15th day of September 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• 
APPLICATION BY 
VALLEY BANCORPORATION, APPLETON, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE NEW AMERICAN BANK OF OSHKOSH, OSHKOSH, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
Valley Bancorporation ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
holding company located in Appleton, Wisconsin, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
The New American Bank of Oshkosh, Oshkosh, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Commissioner of Banking of the State of Wisconsin of the receipt of 
the application and requested his views and recommendation thereon. 
In response, the Commissioner interposed no objection to approval 
of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 

monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the pro-
posed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by 
the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served. In each case the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant is 
the tenth largest bank holding company and the eleventh largest 
banking organization in the State of Wisconsin. It operates seven 
1/ 
subsidiary banks which have total deposits 
of $77 million, repre-
senting .9 per cent of the total deposits held by all Wisconsin 
banking organizations. Applicant's largest subsidiary bank, 
Appleton State Bank, with deposits of $51 million, is located in 
Appleton, Outagamie County, Wisconsin. Four other of Applicant's 
banks are also located in Outagamie County, the largest of them 
Holding total deposits of $8 million. Applicant also maintains 
one banking subsidiary in Manitowoc County, with total deposits of 
$3 million and one banking subsidiary in Calumet County, with total 
deposits of $4 million. 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1968, refer to insured 
commercial banks, and include all bank holding company applications 
approved by the Board. 

Bank's sole office, located in Oshkosh, Winnebago County, 
Wisconsin, has total deposits of $20 million, representing 8.5 per 
cent of the deposits held by all Winnebago County commercial banks. 
There are three other banks located in Oshkosh. The largest, with 
deposits of $60 million, representing 26 per cent of Winnebago 
County deposits, is a subsidiary of First Wisconsin Bankshares 
Corporation, the largest bank holding company located in Wisconsin, 
The two remaining Oshkosh banks, with total deposits of $26 million 
and $10 million, respectively, are affiliated by reason of common 
ownership, and together hold 16 per cent of Winnebago County depos-
its. Consummation of Applicant's proposal would mark Applicant's 
initial entry into Winnebago County, which is located immediately 
to the south of Outagamie County. 
Bank derives no business from areas served by Applicant's 
subsidiary banks, nor do the latter banks derive any business from 
the area served by Bank. The closest of Applicant's banking offices 
to Bank is approximately 20 miles to the north of Oshkosh in 
Outagamie County, and there are several banks located in this inter-
vening area. There is, therefore, no existing competition between 
Applicant and Bank which would be eliminated by consummation of the 
proposed transaction. 
Under existing Wisconsin banking law, none of Applicant's 
subsidiary banks could establish a de novo branch office in 03hkosh, 
nor could Bank establish a de novo branch in any area served by a 

subsidiary bank of Applicant. It therefore does not appear that 
consummation of the proposal would foreclose significant potential 
competition between Bank and present subsidiaries of Applicant. 
Bank possesses the third largest share of deposits held 
by the four banks located in Oshkosh; and because two such banks 
are affiliated by reason of common ownership, Bank!s share of such 
deposits is the smallest held by Oshkosh banks. The other 
Winnebago County banks, all of which are located more than 10 miles 
from Bank's office, derive only nominal business from the area 
served by Bank, However, competition between the other Oshkosh 
banks and Bank, the latter presently a conservatively operated 
institution, is likely to become more aggressive if Bank is 
operated as a subsidiary of Applicant. No adverse effect upon the 
competitive position of other Winnebago County banks is reasonably 
foreseen in Applicant's proposal. 
Consummation of the proposed transaction would neither 
result in an increase in the concentration of banking resources in 
any area presently served by either Applicant or Bank, nor in a 
significant increase in the concentration of banking resources in 
the State of Wisconsin. Applicant's control of total deposits of 
all commercial banks in the State would increase from .9 per cent 
to 1.1 per cent. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a 

2849 
-5-
Monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or 
attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any area, and would 
not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or 
restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects, -
The financial conditions, managements, and prospects of Applicant 
and its subsidiary banks are regarded as reasonably satisfactory. 
Bank's financial condition is also considered to be 
reasonably satisfactory. As earlier noted, however, Bank is operated 
somewhat conservatively and consummation of the proposed transaction 
should result in its being operated more aggressively, thereby 
enhancing its prospects. Senior management of Bank is nearing 
retirement age, and Bank is lacking in experienced successor management. 
Applicant's stated intention and ability to provide a qualified execu-
tive officer for Bank if the application is approved is a consideration 
which, together with the foregoing considerations relating to the 
banking factors, lends weight toward approval of Applicant's proposal. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - There 
is no evidence that major banking needs in the Oshkosh area are going 
unserved. However, certain services such as trust facilities, are 
available only to a limited extent. In addition, Bank's deposit and 
loan growth has not kept pace with that of other banks located in its 
area. If the proposed acquisition is consummated, Applicant would 
make available to Bank's customers trust and estate services, and would 

IP! 
-6-
provide Bank with the assistance of Applicant's experienced loan 
officers and other specialized personnel. Improvement in and a 
broadening of Bank's service rendition in these respects, resulting 
in a convenient alternative source of full banking services for 
Bank's present and potential customers, are considerations support-
ing approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
September 15, 1969. 
2850 

.•^OfCOl 'I 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASH! NQTON 
Item No. 1 
3/15/69 
O F F I C E O F THE 
CHAIRMAN 
September 15, 1969 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Joint Committee on Defense Production, 
Congress of the United States, 
Washington, D 0 C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In response to your letter of July 1, 1969, enclosed is a 
report summarizing the mobilization activities of the Board of 
Governors of tha Federal Reserve System and Federal Reserve Banks 
for inclusion in the Nineteenth Annual Report of the Joint Committee 
to the Congress. 
The report, in three parts, summarizes programs and ac-
tivities related to three general areas of preparedness responsibility 
assigned to the Board and Federal Reserve Banks by Executive Orders 
11094 and 10480; namely, preparations to survive a nuclear attack 
and to cope with the potential economic effects of all conditions 
of national emergency, promotion of commercial bank preparedness, 
and performance of fiscal agency and regulatory functions in con-
nection with Government guarantees of defense production loans. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Win. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
4/15/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRHESPONOE 
TQ THE BOARD 
September 15, 1969 
Mr. Charles J. Scanion, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 6069C 
Dear Kr. Scanlon: 
The Board has approved the recommendation adopted at the 
June meeting cf the Conference of President;? that the System's 
Travel Accident Insurance contract be amended to include Total and 
Permanent Disability coverage. It is understood that under this 
coverage provision is made for a lump sum payment of the principal 
amount when an insured receives injuries under these conditions: 
1. The loss of time from work commences within 
365 days of an accident; 
2. The loss of time is total, continues uninter-
ruptedly for twelve consecutive months, and 
is expected to be permanent 5 
3. The insured is regularly attended by a qualified 
physician; 
U. That it can then be shown that this total loss 
of time will be permanent. 
It is also understood that the cost of implementing the 
expanded coverage is estimated to be $3,700 over a three-year period 
and is to be allocated to the Reserve Banks and the Board of Governors 
on a per capita basis. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

' W O O 
b o a r d d f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
9/15/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRRESPONOCNC 
TO .THE BOARD 
Septemher 15, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL i.'FR) 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
As requested in your letter of August 28, the Board of 
Governors approves the appointment of, and the payment of salary 
to, Mr. Carl E. Bierbauer as Senior Vice President at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago at an annual salary rate of $30,000 for 
the period November 1 through December 31, 1969. This is the rate 
fixed by your Board of Directors. 
The Board of Governors also approves the continuation in 
service and the payment of salary of $30,000 per annum to Senior 
Vice President Laurence H. Jones to December 31, 1969. 
The Board notes that this request will continue the 
active service of Mr. Jones until the tentative date of proposed 
changes in the benefits of the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks. The Board approves with the understanding that 
the same opportunity to extend employment for this purpose also 
is given to any nonofficial member of the Bank's staff who might 
benefit by such action. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
9/15/69 
of cow-*-. 
• F 
T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 15, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (Fl) 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
As requested in your letter of August 29, the Board of 
Governors has approved the continuation in service and the payment 
of salary, at their current annual rates of $15,000 and $17,000, 
respectively, to Assistant Cashiers Joseph Crowley and Paul Dorn 
to December 31, 1969. 
The Board understands that your request is based upon 
the desire to continue the active service of these two officers 
until the tentative date of proposed changes in the benefits of 
the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks. The Board 
has approved your request with the further understanding that the 
same opportunity to extend employment for this purpose also is 
given to any nonofficial member of the Bank's staff who might 
benefit by such action. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/15/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C 1AL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 16, 1969 
Dear Sir: 
Two Reserve Banks have requested Board approval to 
extend salary payments for officials from the date of retirement 
through December 31, 1969, in anticipation t.hat revisions in the 
benefits of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
now under consideration, will be effective January 1, 1970. 
Thes e requests for extensions of f.alary payments were 
approved by th.j Board with the understanding that the same 
opportunity for continued employment be extended to nonofficial 
employees. 
You are being advised of these actions with the thought 
that members of your staff should be offered the same opportunity 
to extend employment until January 1, 1970. 
Very truly ycurs, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 8 
9/15/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
ADDRESS O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D I N G 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 15, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. M. H. Strothman, Jr., 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis. Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Strothman: 
As requested in your letter of October 1, the Board 
of Governors h3s approved the continuation of service and the 
payment of salary at the current annual rate of $29,000 to 
Senior Vice President Clarence W. Groth to December 31, 1969. 
The Board understands that your request is based upon 
the desire to continue the active service of this officer until 
the tentative date of proposed changes in tie benefits of the 
Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks. The Board has 
approved your request with the further understanding that the 
same opportune ty to extend employment for this purpose also is 
given to any r.oricfficial member of the Bank's staff who might 
benefit by such action. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

•oof 
f^riisfr-
O r 
(C N O < 
B O A R D CIF G D V E R N G R 5 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
9/15/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E H P • N D E N C. E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R O 
September 15, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
, 
Station K, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
As requested in your letter of October 6, the Board 
of Governors has approved the continuation of service and the 
payment of salary at the current annual rates of $24,000 and 
$14,400, respectively, to Senior Vice President and Cashier 
Roy E. Bohne and Assistant General Auditor Herman B. Hudson 
through December 31, 1969. 
The Board understands that your reqxiest is based upon 
the desire uo continue the active service of these officers 
until the tentative date of proposed changes in the benefits of 
the Retirement System of the Federeal Reserve Banks. It is 
noted that the same opportunity to extend employment for this 
purpose has been given to nonofficial members of your staff 
who might benefit by such action. 
. Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O r 
T H E 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
O F F I C E OF THE 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 10 
9/15/69 
September 17, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Willis J. Winn, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Willis: 
The Board of Governors has approved the appoint-
ment of Mr. David Eastburn as President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, effective March 1, 1970, and 
continuing through February 28, 1971, which is the unexpired 
portion of the five year term of the President of your Bank. 
While no mention was made of salary in your letter 
of September 9, the Board has established a range of $42,500 
to $60,000 for this position at your Bank. Your salary pro-
posal will be considered at a later date. 
Sincerely yours 
(signed) 
Bill 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
