MINUTES 
Board of .Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 26, 1969 

35 iO 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, November 26, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs . Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
•1/ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

*j er A 
u j l±JL 
11/26/69 
-2-
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Other supporting staff 
First at Orlando. The Board authorized issuance of orders and 
a statement reflecting its actions, on October 3, 1969, approving the 
applications of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to 
acquire shares of the following banks in Florida: Commercial Bank at 
Daytona Beach, Daytona Beach; Peninsula State Bank at Daytona Beach 
Shores, Daytona Beach Shores; and Exchange Bank at Holly Hill, Holly 
Hill. Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. 1, along with 
a copy of the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
with respect to the action regarding Commercial Bank at Daytona Beach. 
Northeastern Bankshare Association. The Board authorized 
issuance of orders and a statement reflecting its actions, on October 22, 
approving the applications of Northeastern Bankshare Association, 
Lewiston, Maine, to acquire shares of First-Manufacturers National Bank 
o f Lewiston and Auburn, Lewiston, Maine, and The Peoples National Bank 
o f Farmington, Farmington, Maine. Copies of the documents are attached 

11/26/69 
-3-
under Item No. 2, along with a copy of Governor Robertson's dissenting 
statement with respect to the proposal involving First-Manufacturers 
National Bank of Lewiston and Auburn. 
Retirement benefits. The Board unanimously approved a letter 
to the Secretary of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks 
regarding the method of determining certain retirement benefits. A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Indiana National Bank. In a memorandum dated November 17, 1969, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of The Indiana National Bank, Indianapolis, Indiana, to 
establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. 
After discussion at today's meeting the Board approved the 
application, Governor Robertson dissenting and Governor Brimmer abstaining. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares. In a memorandum dated 
October 10, 1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the application of Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., 
Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares of Security Bank and Trust Company, 
Danville, Virginia, expected to be the successor by merger to The Bank 
Danville, a proposed new bank. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application was approved 
Ur*animously. In related actions, the Board unanimously approved (1) the 

11/26/69 
-4-
application of Security Bank and Trust Company to merge with The Bank 
of Danville, and (2) the application of The Bank of Danville for member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. In was understood that documents 
to implement the decisions under the Bank Holding Company and Bank 
Merger Acts would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Mid America Bancorporation. In a memorandum dated November 7, 
1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
°f the applications of Mid America Bancorporation, Inc., St. Paul, 
Minnesota, to acquire shares of Park-Grove National Bank, Cottage Grove, 
Minnesota, and Suburban National Bank of Roseville, Roseville, Minnesota, 
both proposed new banks. 
After discussion at today's meeting the applications were 
agproved unanimously. It was understood that documents to implement 
these decisions would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Society Corporation. In a memorandum dated October 22, 1969, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
aPplication of Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire shares 
o f The American Bank, Port Clinton, Ohio. 
Because the Department of Justice had submitted a report concluding 
that the competitive effect of the proposed acquisition would be adverse, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation further analyzed the applica-
tion in the light of the Department's opinion and the response made to 

3S14 
11/26/69 
-5-
that opinion by the applicant. The Division found nothing that had 
not been considered previously and therefore reiterated its favorable 
recommendation. The Banking Markets Section of the Division of 
Research and Statistics also examined the findings of the Department 
of Justice and recommended approval, concluding that the competitive 
effect of the proposed acquisition would be at worst slightly adverse 
and that the convenience and needs factor weighed in favor of approval. 
After discussion at today's meeting the Board unanimously 
approved the application. It was understood that documents to implement 
this decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Broward Bancshares. In a memorandum dated October 16, 1969, the 
TN, . 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the appli-
cation of Broward Bancshares, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Florida, to become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of Broward 
National Bank of Fort Lauderdale, Fort Lauderdale National Bank, and 
c°ral Ridge National Bank of Fort Lauderdale. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application was approved 
unanimously. It was understood that documents to implement this decision 
Would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Chairman Martin then joined the meeting. 
Citizens Bancorporation. On November 12, 1969, the Board discussed 
deferred action on the application of Citizens Bancorporation, 

oh 45 
11/26/69 
-6-
Sheboygan, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company through acquisition 
of shares of Citizens Bank of Sheboygan, North Side State Bank, and 
Community South Side Bank, all of Sheboygan. The Division of Supervision 
and Regulation had recommended approval of the application in a memorandum 
dated October 31; the Examination Department of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago had recommended approval, although the Bank's Research Depart-
ment had recommended denial. 
During discussion at today's meeting the staff supplied informa-
tion that the Board had requested regarding the degree of common owner-
ship of the institutions proposed to be acquired. 
The application was approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissenting. It was understood that documents to implement this decision 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration, and that a dissenting 
statement also would be prepared. 
Pre-authorized payment plans. The Board had requested that the 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board defer final action on its proposed rule 
relating to pre-authorized payment plans for Federal savings and loan 
associations so as to allow additional time for study. A detailed 
analysis of the plan that the Board had requested was attached to a 
memorandum from Mr. Partee dated November 25, along with a draft letter 
t o the Federal Home Loan Bank Board that would recommend further post-
ponement of the proposal. Other documentation included memoranda dated 

3546 
/ 
11/26/69 
-7-
November 12 from the Legal Division and the Division of Research and 
Statistics. 
Discussion at today's meeting resulted in agreement not to send 
the staff analysis to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, as proposed in 
the draft letter. There was also agreement upon other revisions in the 
letter. 
The letter was approved unanimously in the form attached as 
Item No. 5. 
Commercial paper. On October 29, 1969, the Board had published 
for comment a proposal to apply interest rate ceilings to funds obtained 
by banks through issuance of commercial paper by their holding company 
affiliates. The Board also determined that Regulation D, Reserves of 
Member Banks, and Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, applied to funds 
obtained by banks through issuance of commercial paper by their subsidiaries. 
On November 4 the Board announced the adoption of relief measures to allow 
banks more time to adjust to the ruling with respect to subsidiaries. In 
i.... _ 
essence, the ruling was suspended until December 1, 1969, with respect to 
interest rate ceilings, and other relief was provided through waiver of 
Penalties for reserve deficiencies and through special discount window 
accommodation. 
In a memorandum dated November 21, 1969, the Legal Division com-
mented on a request by The First National Bank of Boston for further 

3547 
11/26/69 
-8-
relief geared to its individual circumstances. The Division in effect 
recommended that the request be denied, but noted that the question of 
providing over-all additional relief from the bank subsidiary ruling 
was basically a matter of policy. The Division suggested possible 
timetables for further relief to coincide with the adoption (if the Board 
should take that action) of the proposal to apply Regulation Q to funds 
derived by banks from commercial paper issued by their holding company 
affiliates. 
Congressman Emanuel Celler had sent the Board a telegram 
questioning the Board's authority to adopt the commercial paper proposal 
with respect to bank holding company affiliates and requesting that the 
Board defer action. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia had transmitted to the 
Board a letter from The Philadelphia National Bank requesting a special 
loan of $80 million, apart from other discount window accommodation, in 
order to permit the bank to adjust to the ruling relating to bank sub-
sidiaries . 
A memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated November 20 
submitted an outline of a proposal by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
for the use of moral suasion through telephone conversations by the Reserve 
Bank Presidents to the principal executive officers of the banks or holding 
companies in their Districts that were issuing commercial paper, requesting 

3548 
11/26/69 
-9-
them to hold the total amount of such obligations to the level of their 
outstandings on October 29 until such time as the Board had had an 
opportunity to review the comments received on the Regulation Q proposal 
relating to bank holding companies. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed agreement to extend to 
January 15, 1970, the relief measures announced on November 4 with respect 
to the ruling regarding commercial paper funds obtained by a bank through 
its subsidiaries. Pursuant to this action a press release was issued 
and a letter was sent to the Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached 
as Items 6 and 7. The Board approved unanimously the sending of a letter 
to Congressman Celler in the form attached as Item No. 8. It was agreed 
that the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia would be apprised of the 
Board's reasoning underlying the choice of additional time to adjust 
rather than provision of a special discount window, for the Bank's 
guidance in replying to the request of The Philadelphia National Bank. 
There was also general agreement not to pursue at this time a program of 
moral suasion such as suggested by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Director appointments. It was agreed to ascertain through the 
appropriate Federal Reserve Banks whether the following persons would 
accept appointment, if tendered, as Reserve Bank or branch directors for 

11/26/69 
-10-
the terms indicated, with the understanding that if it was found that 
they would accept, the appointments would be made: 
Louis W. Cabot, Chairman of the Board, Cabot Corporation, 
Boston, Massachusetts, as a Class C director of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 1970. (It had previously been ascertained that 
Edwin Deacon Etherington, President, Wesleyan University, 
Middletown, Connecticut, would be unavailable for the 
appointment.) 
George Alexander Heard, Chancellor, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, Tennessee, as a Class C director of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 1970. 
E. Stanley Robbins, President, National Floor Products 
Company, Inc., Florence, Alabama, as a director of the 
Birmingham Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1970. 
Roy J. Fisher, Manager, Tennessee Operations, Aluminum 
Company of America, Alcoa, Tennessee, as a director of 
the Nashville Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta for the three-year term beginning January 1, 
1970. 
D. Ben Kleinpeter, Wholesale Manager, Kleinpeter Farms 
Dairy, Inc., Baton Rouge, Louisiana, as a director of 
the New Orleans Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta for the three-year term beginning January 1, 
1970. 
William A. Cordingley, Publisher, Great Falls Tribune, 
Great Falls, Montana, as a director of the Helena Branch 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis for the two-
year term beginning January 1, 1970. 

11/26/69 
-11-
Allan B. Bowman, President and General Manager, Banner 
Mining Company, Tucson, Arizona, as a director of the 
El Paso Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1970. 
Francis G. Crane, Owner-Manager, Crane and Crane Orchards, 
Brewster, Washington, as a director of the Seattle Branch 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for the two-
year term beginning January 1, 1970. 
(Note: It later developed that Mr. Heard was 
not available for appointment. It having been 
ascertained that acceptances would be forth-
coming, appointment telegrams were subsequently 
sent to the other individuals named.) 
Mrs. Semia and Mr. Morgan withdrew from the meeting at this 
point. 
Officer's salary at Atlanta. Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta approving payment of 
salary to Robert P. Forrestal as Vice President and General Counsel 
during the period January 1 through December 31, 1970, at the annual rate 
fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 9. 
Salaries of Presidents and First Vice Presidents. Governor 
Mitchell, Chairman of the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans, commented on the general thinking of the Committee with 
respect to salary levels of Federal Reserve Bank Presidents and First 
Vice Presidents, the gist of which was that increases effective 
January 1, 1970, should be held to fairly moderate proportions. Using 

3551 
11/26/69 
-12-
as background material a Committee memorandum dated November 24, 1969, 
he also summarized the situation at several of the individual Banks. 
There was general agreement with a suggestion by Chairman 
Martin that any final decisions be withheld until after the forthcoming 
meeting of the Conference of Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks, the 
thought being that during the meeting Chairmen or Deputy Chairmen who 
felt that a special problem existed at their Reserve Bank could discuss 
it in detail with the Committee and the Board would then be in a better 
position to decide what action should be taken. 
Unionization activities. Using as his point of reference a 
memorandum that had been addressed to him by Mr. O'Connell under date 
of November 21, 1969, Governor Sherrill discussed questions presented 
by the expressed desire of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland that 
there be no further participation by a representative of the Board's 
Legal Division in negotiating sessions between the Bank and a union 
representing guards at the Pittsburgh Branch. Governor Sherrill's view, 
in which Mr. O'Connell concurred, was that there could be benefits, 
both to the Cleveland Bank and from the standpoint of the System as a 
whole, from continued participation by a Board representative in the 
negotiating process in an advisory role. 
It was understood that the matter would be discussed with 
management of the Cleveland Bank on that basis and that, if it then 

3552 
11/26/69 
-13-
seemed necessary, Governor Sherrill would come back to the Board for 
further guidance. 
Labor Relations Panel. Mr. O'Connell reported that Mr. William E. 
Simkin had tentatively agreed to serve as public member of the Federal 
Reserve System Labor Relations Panel. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
11/26/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFGRE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
1 
Orlando, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
Commercial Bank at Daytona Beach, 
Daytona Beach, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando 
Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per 
cent of the voting shares of Commercial Bank at Daytona Beach, 
Daytona Beach, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking of the State of Florida, and requested his views and 

3554 
recommendation with respect thereto. The Commissioner recommended 
approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on May 8, 1969 (34 Federal Register 7474), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
0 r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 26th day of November 1969, 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action; Governors Robertson and Brimmer, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P, Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 

3555 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
1 
Orlando, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
Peninsula State Bank at Daytona Beach Shores, ' 
Daytona Beach Shores, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando 
Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per 
cent of the voting shares of Peninsula State Bank at Daytona Beach 
Shores, Daytona Beach Shores, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Vritten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking of the State of Florida, and requested his views and 

3556 
recommendation with respect thereto. The Commissioner recommended 
approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 8, 1969 (34 Federal Register 7474), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for ita consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 26th day of November 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3557 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
1 
Orlando, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
Exchange Bank at Holly Hill, 
Holly Hill, Florida. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando 
Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per 
cent of the voting shares of Exchange Bank at Holly Hill, Holly Hill, 
Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking of the State of Florida, and requested his views and 

3L>S8 
-2-
recommendation with respect thereto. The Commissioner recommended 
approval of the application* 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 8, 1969 (34 Federal Register 7475), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal. A co?y of the application was forwarded 
the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
0 r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 26th day of November 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3559 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, ORLANDO, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THREE BANKS IN THE STATE OF FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of at 
least 80 per cent of the voting shares of the following Florida banks: 
Commercial Bank at Daytona Beach, Daytona Beach ("Commercial Bank"); 
Peninsula State Bank at Daytona Beach Shores, Daytona Beach Shores 
("Peninsula Bank"); and Exchange Bank at Holly Hill, Holly Hill 
("Exchange Bank"). Although each of these proposals is the subject of 
a separate application and Board Order, this Statement contains the 
Board's findings and conclusions with respect to the three applications, 
because many of the facts and circumstances involved are common to all 
three. 
Views and recorcmendations of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
cations tms given to the Commissioner of Banking of the State of 

-6-
35ti0 
Florida, and his views and recommendations were requested. The 
Commissioner recommended approval of all three applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a*"e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transactions. - Applicant 
i s the fifth largest banking organization and the fifth largest bank 
holding company in Florida. 
It has ten subsidiary banks, which hold 
i/ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of December 31, 1968, 
tefer to insured commercial banks, and include all holding company appli-
cations approved by the Board to date. 

35ti1 
-6-
$351 million of deposits..- Acquisition of Commercial Bank, which has 
deposits of $36 million, and of Peninsula Bank and Exchange Bank, each 
of which has about $6 million in deposits, would increase Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State from 3.1 to 3.5 per cent. Applicant's 
standing among banking organizations and bank holding companies in the 
State would not be affected.-
The three proposed subsidiary banks are among 16 banks in 
Volusia County. Exchange Bank and Peninsula Bank,, both of which were 
chartered in 1963 under the sponsorship of Commercial Bank, continue to 
be closely allied with the latter.- In addition to the fact that large 
blocks of stock of the three banks are held by the same shareholders, 
the same three persons serve as principal officers of the three banks. 
The three banks are located in the Daytona Beach area. Commercial 
Bank serves that entire area, while Exchange Bank and Peninsula Bank serve 
respective segments thereof, as well as a limited area beyond Daytona 
Beach. Commercial Bank is the largest of nine banks competing in the 
described area and of 16 banks in the county, and the three banks, con-
sidered as a group, constitute, in terms of local deposits, the largest 
hanking organization in Daytona Beach and Volusia County. However, 
8cveral organizations which are substantially larger than either the 
Commercial Bank group or Applicant have subsidiaries in Daytona Beach 
a n d elsewhere in Volusia County. The duPont Trust, the largest bank 
holding company in the State (30 subsidiary banks with $950 million in 
deposits), has a $31 million deposit subsidiary in Daytona Beach and a 

3[5tJ2 
-4-
$12 million deposit subsidiary in De Land (18 miles southwest of Daytona 
Beach); Atlantic Bancorporation, the third largest bank holding company 
in the State (11 banks with $559 million in deposits), controls two banks 
in Daytona Beach with combined deposits of $38 million; Barnett Banks of 
Florida, Inc., the fourth largest bank holding company in the State (16 
banks with $558 million in deposits), has a $30 million deposit subsidiary 
in De Land, and, in addition, has proposed to establish a new bank in 
Daytona Beach. 
Commercial Bank and the subsidiaries of the duPont Trust and 
Atlantic Bancorporation are the only banks located within the City of 
Daytona Beach. The other banks located within the larger described ser-
vice area are, in addition to Peninsula Bank and Exchange Bank, two 
affiliated banks in Ormond Beach with combined deposits of $36,5 million, 
and a small ($5.3 million deposits) independent bank in Port Orange, 
which is located outside the service area of Commercial Bank, but com-
petes with Peninsula Bank. Therefore, in spite of the relatively large 
size of Commercial Bank and its affiliates in terms of locally-generated 
deposits, Applicant would be the smallest of the three banking organi-
sations with subsidiaries in Daytona Beach, and only the third largest 
°f five organizations in the larger service area. Further, one of the 
smaller organizations (the Ormond Beach group) has a strong position 
within the market, and another holding company larger than Applicant 
has proposed to establish a new bank in the area. In view of the size 
and relative strength of existing and potential competitors, it does not 

3563 
-5-
appear that the viability of any competing banking organization would 
be adversely affected by consummation of the proposed acquisitions. 
The nearest subsidiaries of Applicant to Daytona Beach are 
located in Orlando, 63 miles to the south. Because of the distance 
involved and the number of banks located in the intervening areas, no 
competition presently exists between Applicant's subsidiaries and any 
°f the proposed subsidiary banks. Also, although the three subject 
banks are so located as to be capable of competing among themselves, 
the previously discussed relationship among them precludes the exis-
tence of any meaningful competition. 
The origin and strength of those relationships also indicate 
that there is little likelihood that competition would develop among the 
three banks in the future. In that connection, although Applicant has 
filed separate applications with respect to each of the proposed sub-
sidiaries, as required by Board procedure, the record indicates that 
acquisition of either or both of the smaller banks could not likely be 
consummated except in conjunction with acquisition of Commercial Bank. 
Thus, approval of the applications relating to Exchange Bank and Peninsula 
®ank, coupled with denial of the Commercial Bank application, would 
likely result in eliminating all of the subject banks as means of Appli-
cant's entry into the area. Such result would not have the effect of 
fostering competition among the banks. 
In view of the Florida law's prohibition against branching, 
*-t appears that the same geographical considerations which have prevented 

35ti4 
-6-
competition between Applicant's subsidiaries and the three subject 
banks in the past would likewise impede the development of such com-
petition in the future. Future competition between Applicant and the 
Commercial Bank group would therefore appear to depend upon acquisition 
by Applicant of another existing bank in the Daytona Beach area, or its 
establishment and acquisition of a new bank in that area. There is 
nothing in the record to indicate a likelihood that Applicant would 
pursue such alternative means of entry, and objective market facts ap-
pear to point to a contrary conclusion. With respect to alternative 
acquisitions, the only independent banks in the Daytona Beach area, 
aside from the subject banks, are the two affiliated banks in Ormond 
Beach and the much smaller bank in Port Orange. Acquisition of the 
Port Orange Bank, however, would not give Applicant a geographic lo-
cation from which it could contribute significantly to competition in 
the Daytona Beach area, and acquisition of the two Ormond Beach banks, 
in addition to being subject to some extent to a similar locational 
disadvantage, would not appear significantly preferable to the present 
Proposal in its competitive consequences. Nor does the establishment 
by Applicant of a new bank in the area appear to be an attractive (and 
therefore likely) prospect, since such bank would face competition from 
two established subsidiaries of larger holding companies, as well as from 
the Commercial Bank group, with its established customer relationships 
in the area. In addition, as has previously been mentioned, another 
larger holding company has proposed to establish a new bank on the oppo-
8ite side of Daytona Beach from Commercial Bank. 

35ti5 
-6-
Considering the entire record, it does not appear that 
consummation of any or all of the proposals will eliminate significant 
present or future competition, or affect existing levels of concen-
tration in the Daytona Beach area* The principal competitive effect 
of the proposals would be to strengthen the ability of the Commercial 
Bank group to compete with subsidiaries of other large organizations 
which presently serve the area, without significant adverse effects on 
the area's smaller banks, which already compete with organizations 
larger than Applicant. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisitions would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any part of the United States, and would not re-
strain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a mono-
Poly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiaries is 
satisfactory. Management is considered to be of uniformly high quality 
throughout Applicant's system, and the prospects of the holding company 
and its subsidiary banks appear favorable. 
The financial condition of Exchange Bank is generally 
satisfactory, but it appears likely that it will need to raise addi-
tional capital in the near future. Commercial Bank and Peninsula Bank 
have immediate capital needs, and, in addition, have some asset weak-
nesses. As previously noted, the three banks share common management; 

3566 
-8-
the direction which Applicant is capable of providing, particularly 
in the area of asset management* would be of benefit to all three banks. 
In addition, Applicant plans, in the event of consummation of the pro-
posals, to confer with supervisors of the banks involved regarding 
additions to be made to the capital of the three banks. Prospects of 
the banks, while not unfavorable, would be improved by Applicant's 
Proposals. 
These considerations weigh in favor of approval of the three 
applications. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consummation 
of the proposed acquisitions would not affect the convenience or needs of 
customers served by Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
It appears that the banking needs of the Daytona Beach area 
are being adequately served at present. Commercial Bank offers full 
hanking services, as do the holding company subsidiaries located in the 
area. However, the area would benefit from the increased loan capacity 
which the proposal would provide to the subject banks by increasing the 
facility of arranging loan participations with other subsidiaries of 
Applicant. It is also proposed by Applicant to improve the trust ser-
vices offered by Commercial Bank and to provide stronger management 
direction in other areas. These considerations are consistent with, and 
Provide some support for, approval of the applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the records, and in the light of the factors set forth in 

3567 
-9-
1 ; 
section 3(c) of the Act* it is the ^bard's judgment that the proposed 
acquisitions would be in the public interest, and that the applications 
should be approved, 
»- .'.• i 
Jt i . , 
November 26, 1969. 

3S{*3 
STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER, 
DISSENTING IN PART 
It is our view that Applicant's acquisition of Commercial 
Bank, either alone or in addition to the two smaller banks, would 
have significant adverse competitive effects which are not out-
weighed by any other considerations presented by the record. 
Our concern Is not predicated upon the elimination of 
present competition,, We agree with the conclusion of the Board that 
little competition now exists between Applicant's subsidiaries and 
the subject banks. Similarly, we do not dispute the conclusion that 
the present relationships of ownership and interlocking management 
among the three banks precludes their consideration as true alter-
native sources of banking service. But the acquisition by the fifth 
largest banking organization in the State of Florida of the leading 
competitor in one of the State's significant banking markets would, 
in our opinion, have adverse effects on potential competition which 
should preclude favorable consideration of the proposal by the Board. 
Commercial Bank, with $36 million in deposits, is the largest 
hank in the Daytona Beach area and in Volusia County,, This position 
Was achieved and has been maintained despite the fact that it faced 
direct competition from subsidiaries of two of the largest banking 
or8anizations in the State. The establishment of Exchange Bank and 
Peninsula Bank under its sponsorship further evidences its competitive 
vitality. 

3569 
-2-
Applicant, in addition to being one of the largest banking 
organizations in Florida, is the dominant banking organization in 
Orlando (Orange County), which is the closest major banking market 
to Daytona Beach. It controls five of the 18 banks in Orange County, 
and accounts for 42 per cent of the deposits held by all banks in that 
county. It is more than 2.5 times as large as the second largest bank-
ing organization in Orange County. 
In a decision last year, the Board summarized the objectives 
which Congress sought to achieve in enacting section 3 of the Bank 
Holding Company Act as follows: 
"[T]he primary objectives of Congress in establishing 
a competitive standard to be applied to applications such 
as that presently before the Board were to prevent the con-
centration of banking resources in the hands of a few large 
banking organizations and to protect and encourage a frame-
work for a banking structure consisting of as many separate 
and competing banking organizations as can effectively and 
efficiently serve the convenience and needs of the banking 
public." 1/ 
The acquisition of Commercial Bank by Applicant would 
frustrate these objectives by eliminating a potential for deconcen-
tration of the Daytona Beach market and by providing an organization 
which occupies a dominant position in one Florida market with a lead-
ing position in a second market in the State. Applicant will control 
over 30 per cent of the deposits in the Daytona Beach area. Over 
73 per cent of such deposits will be held by three bank holding com-
panies, all of which rank among the five largest banking organizations 
in the State. Banking in the area will continue to be dominated by 
four organizations. 
1/ Application of Charter New York Corporation, 1968 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 925, 928. 

35V0 
-3-
1 
i 
I 
As notbd in the majority Statement, there is nothing in the 
record to indicate a likelihood that, in the event of a denial of its 
application involving Commercial Bank, Applicant would pursue alternative 
means of entry into the Daytona Beach area. In all probability, Appli-
cant, intent on achieving entry through acquisition of the area's largest 
banking organization, has given little or no thought to attaining the 
same objective through means more consistent with the public interest. 
But one function of Board decisions on applications such as the present 
ones should be to direct the holding company's attention toward those 
means of expansion which best serve the public interest, and therefore 
are more likely to receive Board approval. Unfortunately, the Board's 
action on these applications may have an opposite effect on holding com-
panies now formulating expansion plans. 
We cannot agree with the majority's conclusion that objective 
market facts indicate that it is unlikely that Applicant would attempt 
to enter the Daytona Beach area through means other than acquisition of 
Commercial Bank. The facts are that the market is a significant and a 
growing one. The fourth largest holding company in the State has already 
proposed to establish a new bank in the area. While that organization 
is larger than Applicant, the difference does not appear so significant 
as to make de novo entry an attractive prospect for the former, but unat-
tractive for the latter. Furthermore, if the size of present competitors 
In the market is considered to make de novo entry by the fifth largest 
banking organization in the State an unattractive, and therefore unlikely, 

o O i l 
-4-
prospect, from what source can new competition in the area be expected 
to 
come? It is our view that the facts that there are few independent 
banks remaining in the area, and that entry barriers are relatively 
high, lead to the conclusion that an organization capable of surmounting 
the existing barriers should not be permitted to enter the area through 
acquisition of three banks which, combined, constitute the largest local 
banking organization. 
Because acquisition of Peninsula Bank and Exchange Bank, if 
not coupled with acquisition of Commercial Bank, would have the effect 
of injecting new competition into the Daytona Beach area, 
' join with 
the Board's majority in approving those applications. In doing so, we 
recognize the possibility that the owners of those banks might well re-
fuse to sell their interests except as part of a "package" which also 
includes Commercial Bank. If that were to occur, the competitive situation 
in Daytona Beach would be unchanged by the actions which we would take, 
and Applicant would remain only a potential competitor in the area, rather 
than an actual one. In view of the evidence that the Commercial Bank 
group is an effective competitor and that the convenience and needs of 
the community would be only minimally advanced by its becoming a part of 
Applicant's organization, we view that alternative as far preferable to 
applicant's entry through means which will eliminate potential compe-
tition, increase the already significant barriers to new entry, and thus 
tend to prevent any diminution of the high level of concentration in the 
area. 
November 26, 1969. 

Item No. 
11/26/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
NORTHEASTERN BANKSHARE ASSOCIATION, 
1 
Lewiston, Maine, 
for approval of acquisition of at 
least 51 per cent of the voting 
shares of First-Manufacturers 
National Bank of Lewiston and 
Auburn, Lewiston, Maine. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Northeastern Bank-
share Association, Lewiston, Maine, a registered bank holding company 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 
51 per cent of the voting shares of First-Manufacturers National Bank 
of Lewiston and Auburn, Lewiston, Maine. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 

3573 
-2-
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
that the application be given favorable consideration. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 7, 1969 (34 Federal Register 12350), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 26th day of November 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

O J i Lk 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
NORTHEASTERN BANKSHARE ASSOCIATION, 
1 
Lewiston, Maine, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of at 
' 
least 51 per cent of the voting shares 
1 
of The Peoples National Bank of 
1 
Farmington, Farmington, Maine. 
1 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Northeastern 
Bankshare Association, Lewiston, Maine, a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board1s prior approval of the acquisition of at 
least 51 per cent of the voting shares of The Peoples National Bank 
°f Farmington, Farmington, Maine. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
tl*e Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
that the application be given favorable consideration. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 22, 1969 (34 Federal Register 13570), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 26th day of November 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
NORTHEASTERN BANKSHARE ASSOCIATION, LEWISTON, M I N E , 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF THE FIRST-MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL BANK OF LEWISTON AND AUBURN, 
LEWISTON, MAINE AND THE PEOPLES NATIONAL BANK OF FARMINGTON, 
FARIIINGTON, MAINE 
STATEMENT 
Northeastern Bankshare Association, Lewiston, Maine 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
°f 1956, for prior approval of the acquisition of at least 51 per cent 
°f the voting shares of both the First-Manufacturers National Bank of 
Lewiston and Auburn, Lewiston, Maine ("First Bank"), and The Peoples 
National Bank of Farmington, Farmington, Maine ("Peoples Bank"). 
Each of the applications has been separately considered and is the 
subject of a separate Board Order. However, since certain facts and 
circumstances are common to both applications, this Statement contains 
th p 
t 
G Board's findings and conclusions with respect to both. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
cations was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, 
the c 
G Comptroller of the Currency. The Comptroller recommended approval 
o f both applications. 

3577 
-2-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monop-
oly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the 
proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest 
by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. In each case the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
controls about $69 million in deposits, and is the sixth largest 
banking organization and the smallest of three bank holding companies 
operating in Maine.-'' The 10 largest banking organizations, which 
include the three bank holding companies, control about $841 million 
i/ All banking data are as of 
£°ted, and reflect all holding 
B°ard to date. 
December 31, 1968, unless otherwise 
company acquisitions approved by the 

3578 
-2-
in total deposits, representing 77*3 per cent of the total deposits held 
by all commercial banks in the State. Acquisition of both banks by 
Applicant would increase this figure to 80.3 per cent. Applicant's five 
subsidiary banks hold 6.3 per cent of all bank deposits in Maine, Acqui-
sition of First Bank, which has $64.2 million in deposits (5.9 per cent 
of the State total), and Peoples Bank, which has $6.6 million in deposits 
(.6 per cent of the State total), would increase Applicant's share of 
State deposits to 12.8 per cent. Acquisition of Peoples Bank would not 
increase Applicant's rank among the State's banking organizations or 
bank holding companies. Acquisition of First Bank, either alone or in 
addition to Peoples Bank, would result in Applicant's becoming the third 
largest banking organization and the second largest bank holding company 
in the State. 
Applicant's largest and only directly-owned subsidiary bank is 
Eastern Trust and Banking Company, Bangor, Maine, which has deposits of 
$31 million. In addition, the Board, in August 1969, approved a proposal 
by Applicant to acquire at least 51 per cent of the voting shares of 
Westbrook Trust Company ($15 million deposits), Westbrook, Maine. 
Applicant's other subsidiary banks, which are directly owned by Eastern 
Trust and Banking Company (which is a holding company, as well as a 
bank), are Lincoln Trust Company, Lincoln ($8 million deposits); 
Millinocket Trust Company, Millinocket ($9 million deposits); and 
Guilford Trust Company, Guilford ($6 million deposits); all are located 
i n the State of Maine. 
Eight of First Bank's nine offices are located in Lewiston 
Qnd Auburn, two cities which form a single commercial and population 

3579 
-4-
center in Androscoggin County, in southwestern Maine; the other is 
located in Lisbon, eight miles southwest of Lewiston. First Bank is 
the largest bank in its area in terms of its share of deposits 
originating within the area, but its only competitors are stated to 
be local offices of three of the four largest banking organizations 
in the State. 
The main office of Peoples Bank is located in Farmington, 
which is about 43 miles north of Lewiston, in Franklin County; its 
only branch is located 48 miles north of Farmington, in Eustis. It 
competes with one local bank of approximately its size in Farmington, 
and with offices of the largest and second largest banking organiza-
tions in Maine, 
No significant competition exists between the subject banks 
or between either of them and a subsidiary of Applicant. The nearest 
offices of First Bank and Peoples Bank are 23 miles and 75 miles, 
respectively, from any office of a subsidiary of Applicant. 
Under Maine law, a bank can legally branch into a county 
contiguous to that in which its home office is located. One of 
Applicant's subsidiaries, Westbrook Trust Company, is located in a 
county contiguous to Androscoggin County and there is, therefore, a 
Possibility of future competition between that bank and First Bank. 
However, analysis of the population of the areas involved, the number 
and size of banking alternatives located in such areas, past branching 
Patterns of the banks involved, and other economic considerations, 
leads to the conclusion that the possibility of such competition is 
remote. 

35 SO 
-5-
Prior to Applicant's proposal, First Bank and Peoples Bank 
received prior Board approval to become affiliated through the forma-
tion of a bank holding company, First Bankshare Association, Lewiston, 
. 
2/ 
Maine. 
This plan has been abandoned. Nevertheless, the abandoned 
plan suggests that there is a potential for competition between banks 
in Applicant's system and First Bank if the latter were to become the 
lead bank in another bank holding company. In the Board's judgment, 
however, any adverse weight which might be assigned to the foreclosure 
of that potential is less significant than the favorable weight appli-
cable to other competitive considerations. The largest of Applicant's 
present subsidiaries has deposits of only $31 million. lacking the 
strong base possessed by the large banking organizations in Maine, 
its ability to offer competition to such organizations is limited. 
Acquisition of First Bank would provide it with that base, and thereby 
create a potential for increased competition with the dominant banking 
organization in the State. It is the Board's view that this would 
better meet the requirements of the State for competitive banking 
than would the creation by First Bank of another holding company with 
only local capability. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of either or both of the proposed acquisitions would not 
result in a monopoly or be. in furtherance of any combination, conspir-
acy, or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant 
2/ 1969 Federal Reserve Bulletin 282. 

3581 
-6-
area, and would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create 
a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects, -
The financial conditions and managements of Applicant, its subsidiary 
banks, and of First Bank are satisfactory, and their prospects appear 
favorable. The financial condition and management of Peoples Bank 
are reasonably satisfactory; its prospects are regarded as only fair, 
however, due to its location in an area which has had little economic 
growth. Applicant's proposal offers a means whereby Peoples Bank 
might achieve stronger management, more efficient operations, and 
improved services, and to this extent should have a favorable effect 
on the prospects of Peoples Bank. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consis-
tent with approval of Applicant's proposed acquisition of First Bank, 
and lend some weight toward approval of the application involving 
Peoples Bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of residents of the areas served by Applicant's present 
subsidiaries, by First Bank, and by Peoples Bank appear to be ade-
quately served at present. However, the areas served by all of the 
banks involved would benefit from the greater facility with which 
the banks will be able to meet larger credit needs in the communities 
which they serve, through loan participations among them. First Bank 
would be able to provide more meaningful competition to the larger 

-2-
banking organizations in its area in meeting such needs, and present 
subsidiaries of Applicant would, as a result of the increase in the 
resources of Applicant's system, have greatly expanded credit capa-
bility. Peoples Bank, in addition, will have access to specialists 
on trust matters, lending, and daily operations, which should result 
in improvements in the services which it offers. 
Considerations under this factor favor approval of both 
applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved, 
November 26, 1969. 

3593 
STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON, 
DISSENTING IN PART 
In March of this year, I joined in approving an application 
by First Bankshare Association to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of voting shares of First Bank and Peoples 
Bank. In so doing, I was influenced by the fact that such proposal 
would have created a new holding company in Maine, of approximately 
the same size as the Applicant here, and with potential for competing 
not only with Applicant, but also with the larger banking organizations 
in the State, Because I continue to believe that First Bank is fully 
capable of serving as the lead bank in such a holding company, it is 
« 
my view that its affiliation with one of the few existing holding 
companies would foreclose a significant potential for future competi-
tion and that therefore, absent the most compelling considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, 
approval of such a proposal is inconsistent with the statutory criteria 
applicable to such applications. 
The present case involves a bank which not only appears, on 
the basis of objective evidence, to be capable of providing leadership 
to a new holding company, but one whose interest in doing so is a 
latter of record, and which has, in fact, received Board approval of a 
specific proposal. Its potential could hardly be more clearly demon-
strated, unless the action earlier approved by the Board had been 
consummated and the present proposal involved a merger of existing 

3554 
-2-
holding companies. The Board's majority recognizes that potential, 
but finds the adverse effect of its foreclosure less significant than 
Tfhat it believes to be a pro-competitive effect of creating, instead 
of two organizations, a single organization of a size more nearly 
equal to that of the largest banking organizations in the State. In 
my view, however, a merger of interests by the sixth and seventh 
largest banking organizations in Maine will compound, rather than 
help to alleviate, the present imbalance in the State's banking 
structure, and almost inevitably will lead to further attempts at 
consolidation among the larger banking organizations in the State. 
Although an increase in the aggregate loan limit of Applicant's 
system will result from the proposal, the record fails to demonstrate 
any unserved need for loans in such amounts. Considerations of 
community convenience and needs therefore provide no significant 
weight to justify the anticompetitive effects which would result from 
consummation of the acquisition. 
Acquisition of Peoples Bank appears to be an appropriate 
method of expansion by an organization of Applicant's size, and for 
that reason I join in the Board's approval of Applicant's proposal 
involving that bank. For the reasons stated herein, however, I 
Would deny the application involving First Bank. 
November 26, 1969. 

B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
11/26/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Mr. Ma r t i a W. Berg in, S e c r e t a ry, 
Retiremert System of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, -New York. 10045 
Dear Mr, '3ergj.n: 
With reference to your letter of November 18, 
the Board of Governors is agreeable to the recommenda-
tion of the Actuary that any accrued 1 ability for the 
additional benefits in the Board of Governors Plan under 
Public Law 91-93 and tlie cost-of-living increase for 
retired members and their beneficiaries be determined in 
conjunction with the February 28, 1970 valuation. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1DD9ES3 Uf'FIDIAL C O 3 K E S I" D N O E N E 
TO THE LiriAhD 
November 26, 1969 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3596 
Item No. 4 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
11/26/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2!>55! 
ADORFSS UFriCIAL CORRESPDNIiENCf: 
TCI THE BOAMD 
November 26, 1969 
The Indiana National Bank, 
3 Virginia Avenue, 
Indianapolis, Indiana. 46204 
Gentlemeni 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to The Indiana National Bank, Indianapolis, 
Indiana, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal' 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas., and to 
operate, and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
net as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no con» 
tact with tfto local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at J east in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. In view of the unusual character of 
this operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to con-
tinuing special observation and review by jhe Board and after due 
notice may be withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission is 
also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and 
will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the b:;anch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on cr before December 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

OuV'i/ 
The Indiana National Bank 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
Undej Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations- on rates of interest prescribed in Section .19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 
213.7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions is 
to allow foreign branches of United Stites banks to compete abroad 
with foreign b;nks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States tanks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter" 
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches., 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes oi the foreign credit restraint effort* In view of 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investments 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effnet as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration :s being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3558 
BOARD OF G OVER N O R5 
Item No. 5 
11/26/69 
D F' T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, CI. C. £05'il 
L F F I C C OF THE: C H A I R M A N 
November 26, 1969 
The Honorable Preston Martin, 
Chairman, 
Federal Heme Loan Bank Board, 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Pres: 
Zou will recall that at the joint meeting of the super-
visory agencies on November 13 this Board requested that the Home 
Loan Bank Board defer final action on ir.s proposed rule relating 
to preauthorized payment plans for Federal savings and loan 
associations so as to allow additional Lime for study of this 
potentially important action. 
After careful review, the Board recommends that final 
action on this proposal be further postponed. The Board feels 
that the longer-run change in the functional relationship between 
demand deposits and near monies, which it believes could result 
from adoption of the proposal, involves important questions con-
cerning th,j conduct of monetary policy and the evolution of our 
payments mechanism that require thorough evaluation before such 
a change is put in train. 
I would propose that our staffs get together to review 
these considerations and to see whether technical changes in your 
Board's proposal would seem warranted. 
With all good wishes 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 
VJm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

.fWat^v 
Item No. 6 
11/26/69 
For immediate rele.se 
November 26, 1969. 
The Boarc! of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today that further time will be given to member banks to adjust to a 
determination by the Board on October 29 relating to commercial paper 
issued by bank subsidiaries. 
In that determination, the Board pointed out that obligations 
of bank subsidiaries are, under present provisions of Regulations Q and 
D> subject to interest rate limitations and reserve requirements to the 
same extent as obligations issued directly by the bank. 
Following is the text of a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks 
this matter: 
"The Board today adopted the following in furtherance of 
its actions on October 29 and November 4 concerning the status 
ot certain types of obligations issued by bank subsidiaries under 
Regulations D end Q: 
Ml- ^egulaJlH-^LiL. The Board has further suspended until 
January 15, 1970, the limitations on the rate of interest that 
racy be specified in corrmercial paper or similar obligations with 
a maturity of SO days or more issued by a subsidiary of a member 
ank to the extent that the total amount of such obligations does 
ot^J 
^ 
t 0 t a l a m 0 u n t o f t h e subsidiary's commercial paper 
outstanding on October 29. 
' 
"2- 
The Board regards i( as appropriate for 
< reserve Bank to waive penalties for member bank reserve deficiency 
t r e ^ r T r r ' o d S b e f o r e J a n u a r y 15> ^70, that result from the 
t h a l t h . 
? 
subsidiary obligations as deposits, to the extent 
amount- f M* 
a m ° U n t ° f y U c h 
ligations does not exceed the total 
° 
tlle subsidiary's coirmercial paper outstanding on October 29 
repnr,i3<\ ^ ^ ' ^ w i n d o w accomjrpdatipjK 
The Board continues to 
^t tho rH a S a p p r ° p r i n t c f o r a Reserve Bank to provide accoirmodat ion 
detormin^r U n t, W 
d ° W f° r ^
^ 
b a n k s 
bV the October 29 
^just in !n"* 
? r d 0 r t 0 a U o W s u c h 
a reasonable time to 
a n overly manner to that determination." 

35* 
B O A R D C3F G L J V U R N D R S 
• R THE: 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
11/26/69 
ADURCiiS UFTICIAL CUSKESF'nNOtNCi' 
TO THE UCAKD 
November 26, 1509. 
D*c<>: Sir: 
The Board today adopted the following in furtherance of its 
actions on October 29 and November 4 concerning Che status of certain 
types of obligations issued by bank subsidiaries under Regulations D 
en0 Q: 
1. PejMilnt:ion 0. The Board has further suspended until 
January li>, 19/0, the limitations on i he rate of interc ut t.b; t 
iuay be specified in commercial paper or similar obligations with 
r: maturity of 30 days or more issued by a subsidiary of a 
member bank, to the extent that the total amount of such 
obligations does not exceed the total amount of the subsidiary's 
commercial paper outstanding on October 29, 
2» Regulation D. The Board regi.rds it as appropriate for 
a P#eserv ' Bank to waive penalties for member bank reserve 
deficiencies in reserve periods before January 15, 1970. that 
result from the treatment of bank subi. idiary obligation? as 
deposits, to the extent that the tota. amount of such obliga-
tions do?.s not exceed the total amount of the subsidiary's 
comr.\ercial paper outstanding on Octobc r 29. 
3* His count: window accommodation, The Board continues 
to regard it as appropriate for a Reserve Bank to provide 
accommodation at the discount window .for member banks affected 
by the October ?9 determination, in order to allow such banlcs 
a reasonable time to adjust in an orderly manner to that 
determination. 
Very truly yours, 
(v? p ^ 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
TO HIF. PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE HANKS 

Item No. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
11/26/69 
QFTHE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
^ 
WASHINGTON, C. .2055! 
' 
- 
O F F I C E OF T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
November 26, 1969. 
The Honorable. Emanuel Celler, 
Ho u 3 e o f Re pr e s en t a t iv e s , 
Washing ton, D. C. 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Thank you for your wire regarding thi Board's proposed 
regulation on commercial paper. 
As you point out, this proposal involves difficult and 
controversial questions of policy. As to the matter of legal 
authority, I am convinced that the propose! .is authorized by the 
present statute, whether or not the statute is amended as provided 
in S2577. 
In askiig for comments, the Board fo lowed its usual 
practice, not because we had doubts about our logsl authority, but 
because we realize there are difficult policy questions involved 
and we wanted the benefit of comments by the public to help us in 
formulating a fair and effective regulation. Mr- have received 
quite a large volune of comments, and we intend to analyze them 
carefully before reaching a final decision. Since this will take 
some time, we actel today on one aspect of the problem--that of 
commercial paper issued by direct subsidiaries of banks-"to extend 
the period of adjustment; a copy of the Board's release on this 
point is enclosed. 
I appreciate the interest you have shown in helping us 
wrestle with this problem. 
With all good wishes. 
Enclosure 

On J Av 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 9 
_ • " OOl •>• •. 
OF THE 
11/26/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 
20551 
ADDRCS3 CIFTiCIAL CDRMESI'DNOCt. 
TO THE GUARD 
November 26, 1969 
CONTJjmrTIAI. _(FK) 
Mr. Monroe Kinbre'J., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Kimb ;el: 
The Board of Governors approves tie payment of 
salary to Mr. Robert P. Forrestal as Vice President and 
General Counsel at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
at the rate of $27,000 per annum for the period January 1 
through December 33., 1970. This is the rata 
by your 
Board oi Directors as reported in your lettar of November 11, 
1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary of the Board. 
