p 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 8, 1970 

3100 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 8, 19 70. 
The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

8 1 0 1 
12/8/70 
-2-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Report on financial developments. 
With a memorandum dated 
December 2, 19 70, Mr. Partee submitted a draft of a review of financial 
developments in the third quarter of 1970 to be transmitted to the 
Joint Economic Committee. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that the report should give 
greater attention to international money flows, particularly the repay-
ment of Euro-dollar borrowings by U.S. banks, and after discussion 
it was agreed that the staff would look into the possibility of includ-
ing additional references along those lines. 
Subject to that understanding, the report was approved unani-
mously. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Chairman of the Joint Economic 
Committee is attached as Item No. 1. 
A copy of the report, as trans-
mitted, has been placed in the Board's 
files. 
Bankers Trust Company. 
The Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation, in a memorandum dated November 27, 1970, recommended approval 
of the application of Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York, for 
permission to issue capital notes. 
Although it was expected that most 
such applications would eventually be handled under delegated authority, 

3\ os 
12/8/70 
-3-
after adoption by the Board of guidelines, the present application 
met all of the requirements the Board's staff had proposed. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that, since the Inter-
agency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation had been asked to 
comment on the proposed guidelines, he did not believe any actions 
should be taken on capital note proposals until the Committee's views 
were known and the Board had adopted its guidelines. 
Staff noted that Bankers Trust was anxious to get the Board's 
decision and that the proposed note issue would be permissible under 
any guidelines the Board was likely to adopt. 
Comment was made that 
one of the criteria under consideration was that capital notes would 
be presumed not to have the character of deposits if the note was to 
be distributed by an underwriter, and it was understood that Bankers 
Trust intended to market its notes in that way. 
Suggestion was made 
that the letter sent to Bankers Trust express the Board's understanding 
that an underwriting arrangement would be used. 
A letter to Bankers Trust Company in the form attached as 
Item No. 2 was then approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
Western American Bank. 
National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, 
Michigan, Security Pacific International Bank, New York, New York, 
and Wells Fargo Bank International Corporation, also of New York, had 
applied for permission to continue to hold stock of Western American 
Bank (Europe) Limited, London, England, after the latter acquired up 

3403 
12/8/70 
-4-
to 100 per cent of the stock of Eurodeal Limited, London, England, 
and Eurodeal acquired all of the stock of a securities house to be 
formed in Zurich, Switzerland. 
In a memorandum dated November 23, 
1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval. 
Governor Mitchell raised questions regarding the treatment of 
losses incurred by Eurodeal because of start-up expenses, the recent 
state of the European bond market, and management problems. 
He 
recalled that a few months ago United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, had assumed liability for large losses suffered by its 
Swiss subsidiary. 
While the Board at that time had not chosen to 
enforce limitation of the parent bank's liability to the amount of 
its equity, perhaps such a limitation should be imposed in the present 
case. 
In any event, he believed that additional analysis was needed. 
After discussion, action on the applications was deferred 
pending the development of additional information. 
Boatmen's Bancshares. 
In a memorandum dated December 4, 19 70, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Boatmen's Bancshares, I n c . , St. Louis, Missouri, which 
at present controlled The Boatmen's National Bank of St. Louis, to 
become a bank holding company by acquiring shares of Bank of Concord 
Village, St. Louis County, Missouri, and Manchester Community Bank, 
Ballwin, Missouri. 

3404 
12/8/70 
-5-
Comments were made on the problem presented in States such as 
Missouri, which included parts of two Federal Reserve Districts. 
The 
bank holding companies in Missouri were headquartered in both the 
Eighth and Tenth Districts, and it appeared that the two Reserve Banks 
were not analyzing applications comparably. 
The staff described measures that had been taken to promote 
uniform analysis of applications. 
Among other things, care was taken 
to insure that similar types of supporting information were developed. 
It was suggested that the staff explore means of weighing not 
only similarity of information but also Reserve Bank attitudes. 
The pending application was then 
approved, Governor Robertson 
dissenting because he considered that the anti-competitive effects 
were not outweighed by other considerations and that de novo entry was 
an alternative. 
It was understood that an order and statement reflect-
ing this decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration and 
that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 
Currency and coin as reserves. 
The Board had published for 
comment a proposed amendment to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, 
to prevent member banks from counting as part of their required reserves 
any silver coin they held for its bullion or numismatic value. 
After 
review of the comments received, the Legal Division recommended that 
the proposed amendment not be adopted but that instead the Board 

3405 
12/8/70 
-6-
publish an interpretation designed to exclude from reserve computation 
any currency and coin held under customer agreements whereby the bank 
did not acquire the full and unrestricted legal right to use such 
currency and coin at any time to meet depositors' claims. 
At the 
meeting on September 29, 1970, the Board had expressed a disposition 
to follow the interpretation alternative, but it deferred action in 
the interest of an orderly transition in the silver market until after 
November 10, when the Treasury would discontinue sales of silver. 
In a memorandum dated December A, 1970, the Legal Division 
reported that certain Congressional and other objections that had 
been raised with respect to the proposed amendment would not appear 
to apply to the recommended interpretation. 
Discussion centered principally on the extent to which the 
practices that had given rise to the proposed amendment would continue 
to be possible under the interpretation. 
The interpretation was then approved unanimously, 
effective 
January 7, 1971, although Governors Robertson and Mitchell expressed 
the view that amendment of the regulation would have been more effec-
tive. 
Copies of the interpretation and the press release announcing 
its adoption are attached under Item No. 3. 
Charlotte real estate purchase. 
In a memorandum dated Decem-
ber 1, 19 70, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended 

12/8/70 
-7-
that the Board approve the purchase by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond of certain property adjoining the Charlotte Branch building 
site. 
A draft of telegram was attached. 
The telegram was approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
Questionable banking transactions. 
A draft letter prepared 
by the Division of Supervision and Regulation would request that the 
Federal Reserve Banks send a letter to State member banks urging 
extreme caution with respect to banking proposals of a suspicious 
nature involving deposits that were being promoted by a number of 
offshore sources, in some cases through U.S. intermediaries. 
The 
Comptroller of the Currency had sent such a letter to national banks. 
Discussion weighed the relative merits of a generalized warning 
against a description of specific activities to which attention had 
been drawn, with identification of the parties concerned. 
Some of the 
proposals and the sources from which they emanated were described. 
It 
was brought out that when some such proposals had come to light in the 
past, Reserve Banks had been reluctant to caution State member banks, 
one reason being possible implications of libel. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the staff was requested 
to prepare another draft of letter and to explore legal aspects of the 
matter. 

3407 
12/8/70 
-8-
1 
Center for Study of Responsive Law. 
With a memorandum dated 
November 24, 19 70, Mr. Molony transmitted a draft of response to an 
inquiry from the Center for the Study of Responsive Law, Washington, 
D . C . , 
(a group associated with Mr. Ralph Nader), relating to System 
and Board practices and travel by Board members. 
Discussion emphasized that the information provided should 
be made available to the public generally upon request. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, a letter was approved 
unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Copies of the attach-
ments to the letter have been placed in the Board's 
files. 
Truth in lending. 
Governor Robertson stated that requests 
by the States of Utah and Virginia for exemption of certain classes 
of transactions from the requirements of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, 
had been withdrawn in order to allow further work on drafting of State 
legislation. 
Production of documents. 
A national bank in California had 
merged several years ago with a State member bank that was discovered 
to have incurred substantial losses because of improper loans, over-
drafts, and other actions. 
The national bank had brought suit against 
the casualty company that had issued a bankers blanket bond. 
The 
casualty company contended that it was not liable, one reason advanced 
being that the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco had repeatedly 

3108 
12/8/70 
-9-
criticized the transactions in question in examination reports, copies 
of which had been furnished to the bank's board of directors. 
In 
recent months the casualty company had sought access to documenta-
tion in support of its defense and had narrowed the request to 
material relating to three particular accounts. 
The San Francisco 
Reserve Bank had resisted producing the documents in response to a 
general subpoena. 
A hearing was to be held in a few days at which it was expected 
that the Reserve Bank would request the court not to grant the demand 
for the specified documents. 
Mr. O'Connell recommended that, if the 
demand was upheld by the court, the Board authorize production of the 
documents at such time as the court required them, with the under-
standing that the Reserve Bank's General Counsel would try to have 
access to them limited. 
After discussion, the Board authorized the production of the 
documents in the circumstances described. 
Foreign credit restraint. 
Governor Brimmer described for the 
Board's information a problem on which he was working with regard to 
the request of a bank in Rhode Island for a base under the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program. 
It was understood that the bank 
intended to use its ceiling to issue certificates of deposit in this 

3409 
12/8/70 
-io-
country and place the funds with the Royal Bank of Canada. 
The ques-
tion being explored was whether such a transaction would or would not 
be consistent with the terms of the balance of payments agreement 
between the U.S. and Canada. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3110 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o . 
1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/8/70 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
December 9, 1970 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
Chairman 
Joint Economic Committee 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In accordance with the arrangements previously made with 
your committee, I am transmitting herewith a staff report 
financial developments in the third quarter of 1970. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
E n c l o s u n 
: , 

3111 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
a F the 
item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/8/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 9, 19 70 
Board of Directors 
Bankers Trust Company 
New York, New York 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 2 1 7 . 1 ( f ) ( 3 ) ( i ) of Regulation Q 
and section 2 0 4 . 1 ( f ) ( 3 ) ( i ) 
of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $75,000,000 in subordinated notes by Bankers Trust Company, 
New York, New York, as proposed in your letter of October 27, 
1970, with attachments to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York. 
It is understood that such notes will be sold as 
a public offering underwritten by a group of investment 
bankers and will not be sold through a marketing channel 
connected with the issuing bank's regular banking operations 
and personnel. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. 3 
12/8/70 
For immediate release. 
December 9 , 1970 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued an interpretation spelling out the circumstances under which a 
member bank may count currency and coin as part of its required reserves. 
The interpretation specifies that a member bank may count as 
Part of its reserves only that currency and coin to which it has a full 
and unrestricted right to use to meet depositors' claims. 
Currency or 
coin held by a bank under agreements, undertakings or arrangements with 
customers that effectively deny to the bank the unrestricted use of the 
currency or coin cannot be counted as reserves within the meaning of the 
Federal Reserve Act since it is not available, 
legally or practically, 
to meet depositors' 
claims. 
In clarifying provisions of the Board's Regulation D govern-
ing the reserves of member banks, the interpretation does not affect the 
legality of arrangements between a bank and its customers regarding 
currency and coin. 
It merely prevents member banks from counting such 
currency or coin as part of their reserves. 
In issuing this interpretation, the Board withdrew a proposed 
rc£ulatory amendment that would have prevented member banks from count-
as part of their required reserves any silver coin they held for its 
or numismatic value. 
A copy of the interpretation is attached. 
-0-

3413 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDElvAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204--RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Currency and Coin 
1, 
Effective January 7, 1971, § 204.1X6 is added to 
read as follows: 
§ 204.116 
Currency or coin held principally for its numismatic or 
hullion value. 
(a) 
The Board of Governors has considered the status under 
Regulation D for purposes of reserve computations of currency and coins 
Held by member banks principally for their numismatic or bullion value. 
(b) 
It appears that a number of banks have been counting as 
Part of their reserve requirements silver coins which the banks have 
acquired and segregated from coins available to meet customers' demands. 
some cases, the coins are held by the bank for its own account with 
fcne expectation of earning a premium over face value because of che 
greater numismatic or bullion val ue of the coins. 
In other cases, the 
c°ins are held by the bank for the account of its customers, under a 
Written or oral agreement, whereby the customer retains the right to, 
0 J : an option on, such coins, 
(c) 
When a member bank acquires currency or coin that it has 
the full and unrestricted right to use at any time to meet depositors' 

3114 
-2-
claims, such currcncy or coin may be counted as reserves for purposes 
of satisfying the bank's reserve requirements. 
The fact that a bank 
may choose to segregate part of such currency or coin does not of 
itself disqualify the currency or coin from counting as reserves. 
(d) 
A bank does not have "the full and unrestricted 
right" 
within the meaning of the preceding paragraph if the bank is prevented, 
legally or practically, by virtue of customer agreements, 
undertakings 
o r arrangements, from using the currency or coin at any time to meet 
customer's demands. 
Such customer agreements, undertakings or arrange-
ments may relate to the specific currency or coins transferred to the 
bank or to currency or coin that the bank is or may be obligated to 
acquire to replace the specific currency or coins so transferred. 
(e) 
Examples of agreements, undertakings, or arrangements 
between a bank and its customer that have come to the Board's attention 
under which the bank does not have the full and unrestricted right to 
use 
silver coins at any time to meet- customers', demands are: 
(1) 
The bank holds the coins subject to a repurchase 
a8reement or an option by the customer or his assignee (a borrowing by 
bank of the coins). 
(2) 
Coins are deposited by the customer and the bank 
^omises to resell to the customer a similar amount of coins (in effect 
a borrowing by the bank of the coins), 
(3) 
The coins deposited by the customer are to be segregated 
returned to the customer upon his request or after a certain period 
o f 
time (a bailment). 

3 1 1 
-3-
(4) 
The bank issues a certificate of deposit, the con-
sideration for which is coins, and the bank simultaneously enters into 
an agreement to redeem the certificate by payment of the coins, 
either 
the identical coins deposited by the customer or similar coins (a 
special deposit). 
(5) 
Coins are transferred to the bank as collateral for a 
loan. 
(f) 
An agreement between the bank and its customer that the 
currency or coin is to be regarded as "owned" by the bank for purposes 
of reserve requirements is not determinative. 
Whether currency or coin 
may be counted as reserves depends on the underlying nature of the 
transaction in the light of the principle and examples set forth herein. 
(g) 
This interpretation is not intended to affect the legality 
of agreements, undertakings, or arrangements between the bank and its 
customers regarding currency or coin. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 
4 6 1 . ) 
2. 
On June 3, 1970, the Board published for comment a proposed 
amendment to Regulation D to prevent member banks from counting as 
Part of their required reserves any coin they hold principally for its 
bullion or numismatic value (Federal Register of June 9, 1970,' ~ 
35 F.R. 8392). 
That proposal is withdrawn. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 8, 
1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3416 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
,
„ 
. 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
I t e m 
JN 0 . 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 2 / 8 / 7 0 
W A S H I N G T O N 
December 8, 
1970 
He El in - Richmond 
Reurlet November 20, Board approves expenditure of 
$192,000 
for purchase of; property adjoining the Charlotte Branch, 
as described in your letter, plus necessary ancillary 
expenditures pertaining thereto, including legal fees, 
title insurance premium, and recording costs. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenyon 

3417 
' BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m 
5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 2 / 8 / 7 0 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
December 8 , 
1970. 
Mr. Pierce H. 
O'Donnell, 
Center for Study of Responsive Law, 
1908 Q Street, N. 
W . , 
Washington, D. 
C. 
Dear Mr. 
O'Donnell: 
In your letter to the Chairman of the Board of Governors 
dated S eptember 11, 1970, you requested of the Board certain informa-
tion relating to the relationship between the Federal Reserve System 
and the banking industry. 
To the extent available, the 
information 
requested is provided 
herewith. 
" 1 . 
the amount and breakdown of the total amount of 
dues paid by the Federal Reserve System to the 
American Bankers Association, state bankers 
associations, 
regional banking 
organizations, 
banking institutes, 
etc. 
for the past four y e a r s ; " 
This information is provided, for each of the 12 Federal 
R e s e r v e Banks, 
in Appendix 1, 
attached. 
" 2 . 
the authority by which the Federal Reserve System 
is authorized to make such contributions; 
" 3 . 
your personal comments on the propriety of a 
banking regulatory agency contributing to banking 
a s s o c i a t i o n s ; " 
As indicated in Appendix 1, the expenditures involved were 
made by the Federal Reserve Banks on an individual basis. 
Under 
section 4 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U . S . C . 
341) the Federal 
Reserve Banks are authorized to exercise, through their boards of 
directors, officers and agents, 
"such incidental powers as shall be 
necessary to carry on the business of banking within the 
limitations 
Prescribed by this chapter." 
Subject to the supervisory 
responsibility 
the Board, the Reserve Banks are vested with some discretion, 
under 
S Gction 7 of the Act 
(12 U . S . C . 
2 8 9 ) , to determine those expenditures 
which represent "necessary expenses" of the Bank. 
The following guidelines for membership dues,, adopted by the 
Conference of Presidents of Federal Reserve Banks in 1957, 
reflect 
standards set by the Board of Governors: 

-2-
3418 
"Reserve Bank expenditures for memberships should be 
limited to those organizations whose activities are 
directly related to the work of the Reserve Bank, 
such as national and state bankers associations, or 
organizations in which the Bank should be represented, 
such as appropriate financial, business, and agricul-
tural associations, or organizations in which member-
ship is desirable in order to obtain publications and 
other services, such as economic and other professional 
associations." 
The Reserve Banks' relationships with such associations are 
beneficial in that, through their attendance at meetings and conventions, 
Bank officers are given the opportunity to meet and discuss banking and 
monetary problems and area developments with those who deal with these 
tatters on a daily basis. 
They also gain a fuller understanding of 
bankers' attitudes, which permits them to better judge the likely effective-
ness of alternative methods of implementing monetary policy„ 
The inter-
change arising out of such participation enables the System to keep abreast 
banking and economic developments, while at the same time giving the 
System a means of communicating directly with persons whose cooperation is 
important to the attainment of policy objectives. 
Membership fees which have been paid under these standards have 
not been regarded as contributions, but as expenditures made for value 
received. 
" 4 . 
the extent to which the Federal Reserve Board is sub-
jected to an external audit;" 
The Board's books of account are audited annually by a firm of 
Certified Public Accounts, currently Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery. 
Their audit report is reproduced in the Board's Annual Report, and copies 
the original report are furnished to the Chairmen of the House and 
Senate Banking and Currency Committees„ 
No restrictions are placed on the 
auditors by the Board or its employees in connection with the examination. 
" 5 . 
a list of the trips, conventions and meetings 
attended, seminars, speeches, etc. by Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System for the past three 
years; 
" 6 . 
the costs for these trips, speeches, etc. 
listed 
in (5) above for fiscal 1969. 
Please indicate 
those circumstances in which the expenses were 
paid for by the sponsoring group and the amounts 
of honoraria received by each Governor, if any;" 
Attached as Appendix 2 are lists of speeches to outside groups 
^ade by each of the Governors during the years 1967, 1968, and 1969. 
included in the listings are trips made for internal System purposes, 

-3-
3119 
participation in programs sponsored by Reserve Banks, or trips to 
represent the Board at international, meetings or in informal discussions 
with various 
groups. 
After each listing, there is a statement with respect to the 
expenses associated with the travel listed for calendar year 1969. 
(Board records are kept on a calendar year, rather than a fiscal year, 
basis.) 
In that connection, it should be noted that the figures given 
tend unavoidably to overstate the expense directly attributable to the 
appearances listed. 
It frequently happens that a Board member who 
finds it necessary to travel to another city on System business will be 
requested, while there, to address a local group, or that a Board 
member who has agreed to address a particular group will extend his 
travel in order to handle System business in that city or other nearby 
cities. 
Because it is impossible, from our records, to allocate the 
total costs of such trips among these various functions, the entire 
eost of such trips is included in the item stated at the end of each 
listing, despite the fact that only a fraction of such cost may be 
directly attributable to the public appearance 
listed. 
Members of the Board do not' accept honoraria for speeches 
which they deliver and it is the policy of the Board to pay the expenses 
Incident to travel of its members for attendance at such functions0 
" 7 . 
a list of industry advisory committees that are 
connected with the Federal Reserve Board, 
including a description of their function, 
authority for creation, and a list of the 
members of each and their background." 
The major advisory committee connected with the Board's 
activities is the Federal Advisory Council, established by section 12 
°f the Federal Reserve Act (12 U„S.C 0 261). 
Enclosed is a listing of 
the Council's current membership and a copy of section 12 of the Act, 
which sets out the legislative authority for its creation and describes 
its functions. 
The Board is aided in its policy decisions relating to the 
"Truth in Lending Act by the Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending, a 
statutory body comprised of 20 members representing the public, 
lenders, and sellers of merchandise on credit. 
The function of this 
b°dy is described by section 110 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U . S . C . 
l 6 0 9 ) , which states: 
"The Board shall establish an advisory committee to 
advise and consult with it in the exercise of its 
functions under this title. 
In appointing the mem-
bers of the committee, the Board shall seek to achieve 

-2-
3120 
"a fair representation of the interests of sellers 
of merchandise on credit, lenders, and the public. 
The Committee shall meet from time to time at the 
call of the Board, and members thereof shall be 
paid transportation expenses and not to exceed 
$100 per diem." 
Enclosed are three press releases that outline the Com-
mittee's work and list its past and current membership. 
Over time, the Board has also found it useful to meet 
occasionally with experts in the economics field to discuss economic 
conditions and problems. 
This group has become known as the Academic 
Consultants. 
It includes some of the most prominent scholars in the 
country and meets with the Board about three or four times yearly. 
Membership of the group varies from meeting to meeting. 
In an 
attempt to obtain a broad range of opinion at these meetings, 
invita-
tions are not limited to academic scholars. 
At the meeting of 
June 19, 1970, for example, two labor economists joined the discussion 
with the Board. 
Enclosed is a listing of the consultants who attended 
that meeting. 
Sincerely yours, 
Charles Molony, 
Assistant to the Board. 
Attachments. 
