MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 18, 1969 

V. 
Us S3 
i 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 18, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
• 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
!?r 
• 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
ix, 

9/18/69 
-2-
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Reports on competitive factors. The Board unanimously approved 
a report, for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Fulton County 
hi 
National Bank and Trust Company of Gloversville, Gloversville, New York, 
with The Fulton County National Bank and Trust Company, also of Glovers-
ville. The conclusion stated that the proposed merger, in itself, would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
The Board unanimously approved a report, for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, on the competitive factors involved in the 
n " ' a . 
. . . . . 
Proposed merger of First National State Bank of New Jersey, Newark, New 
Jersey, with National State Bank of New Jersey, also of Newark. The 
conclusion stated that the proposed merger would have no adverse competi-
tive effects. 
c .. 
The Board unanimously approved a report, for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed consolidation of National Bank of Chester County and Trust Com-
P a n y> W e s t Chester, Pennsylvania, and The Delaware County National Bank, 
Chester, Pennsylvania. The conclusion read as follows: 

9/18/69 
-3-
The proposed consolidation of The Delaware County National Bank, 
Chester, and National Bank of Chester County and Trust Company, West 
Chester, would eliminate a small amount of competition now existing 
between the two banks and would combine the only bank with its main 
office in Delaware County with the largest bank headquartered in Chester 
County, thereby eliminating the potential for increased competition 
between them. Although numerous banking alternatives will remain in the 
a^ea, overall, the effect of the proposal on competition would be adverse. 
• 
". 
The Board unanimously approved a report, for transmittal to the 
Hi, 
, 
-
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, on the competitive factors involved 
J';: , 
in the proposed merger of Marine Bank of Crisfield, Crisfield, Maryland, 
into Bank of Somerset, Princess Anne, Maryland. The conclusion read as 
Pt^ '' ' O Pi 
follows: 
! 
There is little, if any, competition existing between Marine 
Bank of Crisfield, Crisfield, Maryland, and Bank of Somerset, Princess 
Anne, Maryland; however, the proposed merger would eliminate the potential for 
greater competion between them as the latter bank is in the process of 
establishing a branch in the Crisfield community. A number of reasonably 
accessible banking alternatives (one in Crisfield) would remain, including 
branches of three of the State's largest banking institutions. Overall, 
the effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
First National City Overseas. The Board unanimously approved 
application of First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, to purchase shares of Flaminia Nuova Piccoli Prestiti 
q 
A 
•P«A., Rome, Italy. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Trust Company of Georgia. The Board authorized the issuance of 
an order and statement reflecting its approval, on August 26, 1969, of 
le application of Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, to merge 

9/18/69 
-4-
with Atlanta Bank & Trust Company. Copies of the documents are attached 
under Item No. 2, along with a copy of Governor Robertson's dissenting 
statement. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum dated September 16, 
1969, Mr. Broida had distributed a revised draft of policy record entry 
covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on 
June 24, 1969. It was proposed to release the entry on Monday, September 22 
and the entry was now being submitted for final review by the Board prior 
to its release. An earlier version had been approved by the Board on 
August 19, and subsequently distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents. 
One suggested change had been incorporated in the text of the entry. 
The release of the entry onMonday, September 22, was approved 
unanimously. 
With a memorandum dated September 16, 1969, Mr. Broida had 
distributed a draft of policy record entry covering the meeting of the 
Federal Open Market Committee held on July 15, 1969. The draft entry 
took account of comments recieved from Committee members and staff 
following distribution of a preliminary draft. The entry was now pre-
sented for approval by the Board for inclusion in its Annual Report for 
1969. 
After discussion at today's meeting the policy record entry was 
•5£££oved unanimously for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report. It was 

2887 
9/18/69 
-5-
understood that the entry would be distributed to the Reserve Bank 
Presidents, primarily for information but with an indication of the 
date by which any further comments should be received. It was contem-
plated that the entry would be released about October 13, 1969, after 
final review by the Board. 
Charter New York Corporation. In a memorandum dated September 3, 
1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, to 
acquire shares of The Citizens Central Bank, Arcade, New York. 
After discussion at today's meeting the Board unanimously 
approved the application and authorized the issuance of an order and 
statement reflecting that decision. Copies of the documents are attached 
U n d e r Item No. 3. 
Dominion Bankshares. In a memorandum dated September 11, 1969, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
aPplication of Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, to 
acquire shares of Southhampton County Bank, Courtland, Virginia. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application was approved 
unanimously. It was understood that documents to implement this decision 
w°uld be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Hawkeye Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum dated September 11, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 

2 8 8 8 
9/18/69 
-6-
of the application of Hawkeye Bancorporation, Red Oak, Iowa, to acquire 
shares of Mills County State Bank, Glenwood, Iowa. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application was approved 
unanimously. 
It was understood that documents to implement this 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Shawmut Association. In a memorandum dated September 3, 1969, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Shawmut Association, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, to 
acquire shares of First Bank and Trust Company of Hampden County, 
Springfield, Massachusetts. 
After di scussion at today's meeting the application was approved 
unanimously. It was understood that documents to implement this 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Hamilton National Associates. 
In a memorandum dated September 3, 
1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of 
cue appli cation of Hamilton National Associates, Incorporated, 
Chattanooga, Tennessee, to acquire shares of Marion Trust and Banking 
Company, Jasper, Tennessee. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application was denied 
unanimously. It was understood that documents to implement this 
O .!» (. • ; v 
• • , 
... 
, 
, 
, , . . 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Application of Holding Company Act abroad. In a memorandum 
o f September 9, 1969, Mr. Cardon advised of the possibility that certain 

2
8
8
3 
9/18/69 
-7-
amendments to H.R. 6778, the one-bank holding company bill, might 
be offered on the floor of the House of Representatives to limit 
the application of the Bank Holding Company Act abroad. Mr. Cardon 
recommended that the Board support the amendments, adding that most 
of the members of the staff with whom he had discussed them shared 
his view that the amendments would avoid needless complications in 
enforcing the Act abroad without opening any serious loophole. Some 
members of the staff were concerned that the amendments would 
arbitrarily favor foreign companies over domestic ones. However, 
Mr. Cardon felt that there were sound reasons for difference in 
treatment. 
The first amendment would amend the first sentence of 
section 2(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act to read as follows: 
"Bank" means any institution organized under the 
laws of the United States, any state of the United States, 
the District of Columbia, any Territory of the United States, 
Puerto Rico, Guam, or the Virgin Islands that accepts 
deposits that the depositor has a legal right to withdraw 
on demand, but shall not include any organization operating 
under section 25 or section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, or any organization that does not do business within the 
United States, except as an incident to its activities out-
side the United States. 
The second amendment would revise the proviso in section 2(h) 
the Act as follows: 
lv 
: 
: 
• • wov. ' «-r - 
- 
; 
> : i • 
. -
Provided, however, that the prohibitions of Section 4 
of this Act shall not apply to shares of any company organized 
under the laws of a foreign country (or to shares of any 

2 * 1 9 0 
9/18/69 
-8-
subsidiary of such company principally engaged in 
activities incidental to the business of the parent) 
that is principally engaged in business outside the 
United States, if such shares are held or acquired 
by a bank holding company that is principally engaged 
in banking or other financial operations outside the 
United States. 
Certain problems that might conceivably arise from the amend-
ments were noted during a discussion of the matter. However, it was 
the general view that the risk involved was minimal. Accordingly, 
the members of the Board concurred in Mr. Cardon's analysis of the 
situation and accepted his recommendation that the amendments be 
supported. 
In his memorandum Mr. Cardon had suggested that the reply 
to a letter received by Governor Daane from the Governor of The 
Netherlands Bank might be an appropriate vehicle for stating the 
Board's position on the amendments. Agreement was indicated, and 
unanimous approval was given to the proposed letter to Governor 
Zijl stra. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
During the foregoing discussion one Board member observed 
that if the amendments were adopted and it subsequently developed, 
contrary to expectations, that significant problems from the stand-
point of the objectives of the bank holding company legislation appeared 
to be surfacing, it would always be possible to go back to the Congress 
and request a change in the law. Other members agreed. 

9/18/69 
-9-
Taxation of national banks. In a memorandum dated September 16, 
1969, Mr. Cardon reviewed the issues involved in pending legislative 
proposals to subject national banks to additional forms of taxation. 
Attached was a draft letter that would respond to a request from 
Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee for 
the Board's views on the proposals. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed agreement upon a 
number of changes in the draft report on the proposed legislation. The 
substance of the report was approved unanimously in the form subsequently 
transmitted to Chairman Sparkman in the form of a statement by Chairman 
Martin. Copies of the statement and the letter transmitting it are 
attached under Item No. 5. 
Auditing standards. With a memorandum dated September 8, 1969, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations transmitted a report on 
"Suggested Minimum Scope for Audits of Federal Reserve Banks by Their 
General Auditors." The report was submitted by Haskins & Sells in 
response to the Board's request of July 1968. The Division reviewed 
the principal recommendations made by the accounting firm and commented 
on their possible implementation. The Division suggested that the 
report be sent to Chief Federal Reserve Examiner Schaeffer with a 
recommendation that it be used for general guidance in review of the 
auditing function of the Reserve Banks. 

9/18/69 
-10-
After discussion at today's meeting it was understood that the 
report would be sent to the Chief Federal Reserve Examiner as the 
Division had suggested. 
Currency and coin--Puerto Rico. On June 23, 1969, the Board 
appointed a task force to study means of providing currency and coin 
to Puerto Rico upon the discontinuance by the Treasury Department of 
its cash depot at present operated in Puerto Rico through the San Juan 
branch of First National City Bank of New York. With a memorandum dated 
August 8 Governor Brimmer submitted the report of the task force and 
stated that the study group designated by the Board concurred with the 
recommendations in the report. Central to those recommendations was a 
temporary agreement to be entered into by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta with First National City Bank for operation of a cash depot. 
Other recommendations dealt with associated procedures and understandings. 
Supplementary documentation also had been distributed. 
After discussion at today's meeting the Board unanimously 
approved the recommendations of the task force. Attached as Item No. 6 
is a copy of the letter in which the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
was apprised of the Board's action. 
Regulations D and Q. In June 1969 the Board had published for 
comment proposed amendments to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, 
and Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, designed to limit bank liabilities 
outside coverage of the regulations (principally Federal funds transactions). 

2 8 9 3 
i 
9/18/69 
-11-
On September 5 the Board considered staff analyses based on comments 
received, contained in memoranda from the Legal Division dated 
August 5 and 22 and from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
August 28. The Legal Division recommended that the Board adopt the 
proposal of June 1969, with certain modifications, and also the still 
pending portion of a proposal with respect to Regulation Q that had 
been published for comment in September 1968. The Board deferred action 
pending exploration of certain questions. Subsequent documentation 
included memoranda dated September 12 from the Legal Division and the 
Division of International Finance and a memorandum dated September 15 
from the Division of Research and Statistics. The Legal Division sub-
mitted a revised proposal, to be republished for comment, substantially 
reflecting the views expressed by a majority of the Board on September 5. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed agreement upon further 
changes in details of the proposal. At the conclusion of the discussion 
the Board unanimously approved publication of the revised proposal for 
comment. Copies of the proposal and its accompanying press release are 
attached under Item No. 7. 
Commercial paper funds. With a memorandum dated September 2, 
^969, the Legal Division submitted a notice of proposed rule making 
that would make Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, applicable to certain 
funds obtained by a member bank through issuance of commercial paper. 
The proposed rule would also clarify the applicability of Regulation Q 

2««? 4 
i 
9/18/69 
-12-
and Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, to funds obtained through 
the issuance of commercial paper in certain circumstances. 
During discussion at today's meeting, although some sentiment 
was expressed in favor of publishing the proposal for comment, other 
remarks by members of the Board conveyed misgivings or opposition. It 
was therefore agreed to hold the matter in abeyance. 
Cost of dinner. The Board authorized payment of an amount 
estimated at approximately $1,000 as its share of the cost of a dinner 
to be given on September 27, 1969, for members of Working Party 3, 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and the Deputies 
of the Group of Ten by Treasury and Federal Reserve delegates to those 
groups. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew 
from the meeting. 
Services of Mr. Shepardson. The Board authorized travel by 
former Governor Shepardson to attend a meeting of the Federal Reserve 
System Committee on Agriculture to be held in New Orleans, Louisiana, 
in October 1969, the expenses incident to such travel to be handled 
in accordance with the usual terms and conditions pertaining to 
Mr. Shepardson's service as a Board consultant. 
In this connection it was noted that although Mr. Shepardson 
had expressed a desire to conclude his duties as consultant to the Board 
at the end of this month, there might be occasions from time to time 

£895 
9/18/69 
-13-
thereafter when it would be helpful to have Mr. Shepardson's services 
available temporarily, particularly in connection with plans for the 
Board's annex building. 
Thrift Plan. Chairman Martin announced his selection of 
Governor Maisel as the Board representative on the Administrative 
Committee of the proposed Thrift Plan for Employees of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Report by Governor Daane. Governor Daane summarized meetings 
that he had attended recently of (1) Working Party 3 of the Organiza-
tion for Economic Cooperation and Development and (2) the Deputies of 
the Group of Ten. 
! 
The meeting then adjourned. 

o 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
9/18/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENT 
TO THE BOARD 
September 18, 1969 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of July 28 and August 29, 
1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
("FNCOIC") to purchase and hold approximately 49,900 shares (50 per 
cent) of Flaminia Nuova Piccoli Prestiti S.p.A. ("FNPP"), Rome, 
Italy, at a cost of approximately ?1,356,000, provided an investment 
of approximately $1,040,000 is made within one year from the date 
or this 1 enter. In this connection, the purchase and holding of 
the above shares in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's 
capital and surplus is also approved. 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of FNPP if FNPP at any time 
fail3 to restrict its activities t.o those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if FNPP establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Italy, or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of FNPP as it may require from time to time; 

First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FNPP be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same nianner as if FNPP were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of FNPP at a net amount in excess o£ its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of FNPP, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until futher notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter, with the 
understanding that FNCOIC will advise the Board of any change in 
the control of FNPP. 
The Board has noted that as of July 31, 1969, the foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, First National City Bank, 
and its other subsidiaries, exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable 
under the foreign credit restraint effort: now in effect. The foregoing 
consent is given with the understanding that those foreign leans and 
investments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent 
with the guidelines; that the investment now being approved will be 
made within those guidelines; and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
• 
\ 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
•Xv-j 

2 8 3 8 
Item No. 2 
9/18/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
^UST COMPANY OF GEORGIA 
approval of merger with 
Atlanta Bank & Trust Company 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
t h e Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Trust 
C°mPany of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, a State member bank of the Federal 
Gserve System for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank 
a n d Atlanta Bank & Trust Company, Atlanta, Georgia, under the charter 
and title of the former. As an incident to the merger, the three 
°^£ices of Atlanta Bank & Trust Company would become branches of the 
resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the 
°ard, h a s b e e n published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
S t r o l l e r 
of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Pr°Posed merger, 

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) be-
fore the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(k) later than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
! 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 18th day of September, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
: 
v. 
• 
'j
 1 
V 
T V ' : 
'V 
• 
«fc» 'J' 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
/Signed/ Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY TRUST COMPANY OF GEORGIA 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
ATLANTA BANK & TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia ("TCG"), with 
total deposits of $500 million, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
r8er Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of the 
erger of that bank with Atlanta Bank & Trust Company, Atlanta, Georgia 
("ABTY^'in 
1/ 
Ji which has total deposits of $17 million." 
The banks would 
merge under the charter and name of TCG, which is a member of the 
Fed 
eral Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, the three offices 
f ABTC would become branches of TCG, increasing the number of its offices 
t o fourteen. 
Competition. - TCG operates its head office and 10 branches 
itl Atlanta; Trust Company of Georgia Bank of DeKalb (deposits of 
Million), an affiliate of TCG, operates two offices in the Atlanta 
2/ 
°Politan area.— 
The main office of ABTC is about four miles south 
of tu e main office of TCG; ABTC operates a branch at Ben Hill and a 
?/ 
o f December 31, 1968. 
Trust p i S 3 r e 8 i s t e r e d bank holding company. Its wholly-owned subsidiary, 
has s. roPany of Georgia Associates, also a registered bank holding company 
X*ust p S u b s i d i a r y b a n k s (aggregate deposits of $276 million), but only 
^etron i p a n y o f G e o rSia Bank of DeKalb has offices in the Atlanta Standard 
Poiitan Statistical Area. 

2991 
-2-
branch at Roswell Road, about 7-5 miles west and 11.5 miles north, 
respectively, of its head office. The nearest office of TCG to ABTC's 
ttain office is its West End branch, three and one-fourth miles to the 
n®rthwest. TCG operates an office six miles north of ABTC's Ben Hill 
branch and an office 1.5 miles south of ABTC's Roswell Road branch, 
^ e two offices of TCG's affiliate are within four miles of ABTC's 
Roswell branch. There are 27 offices of nine banks, other than TCG, 
ir* the areas served by ABTC. 
TCG, with 16 per cent of the deposits and 7 per cent of the 
of£ices, is the third largest bank in the Atlanta Standard Metropolitan 
Statistical Area. Together with its affiliate, TCG holds about 17 per 
Cetlt o f a r e a deposits and operates 8 per cent of the banking offices; 
f°Uowing the proposed merger with ABTC, these figures would be increased 
to 17 9 
per cent and 10 per cent, respectively. The two largest banks 
°Perating i n the Atlanta SMSA together hold about 51 per cent of area 
dePosits and operate 32 per cent of the area's banking offices. 
ABTC derives the bulk of its deposits from individuals and 
m a U businesses in the neighborhoods in which its offices are situated; 
the 
6 b a n k engages in a construction lending specialty throughout the 
Atl 
a n t a metropolitan area, but virtually none of the loans originate 
these neighborhoods. The merger of TCG and ABTC would eliminate some 
^Petition, as well as increase slightly the concentration of banking 
I'd 
s°urces i n the Atlanta SilSA. 
The effect of the merger on competition would be adverse. 

.' 'ji'v'; -.' ' ' 
• 
• 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to TCG are satisfactory, as they would be 
With respect to the resulting bank. The banking factors as they relate 
to ABTC are satisfactory at the present time, but the bank has a manage-
ment succession problem* The president of ABTC has a health problem 
and must limit his activities; no one else on the staff is familiar 
With the bank's construction lending program, which is the bank's 
specialty. The efforts of ABTC to employ a successor have thus far 
Proved futile. The merger would immediately and conclusively resolve 
this problem. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The effect of the 
merger on banking convenience and needs would be limited to the area 
served by ABTC, and its main impact would be in the Lakewood Heights 
section. 
The lakewood Heights section, site of ABTC's main office, has 
a Population of 57,000; the income of the residents ranges from medium 
t o !ow. About 85 per cent of ABTC's deposits are in the main office 
a n d virtually none of its construction loan business, which is sub-
stantial, originates in this area. TCG would more adequately serve the 
banking needs of the community; the bank's department which makes high 
r*-sk loans to businesses controlled by minority groups could be of 
Particular benefit to the area. 

2SK 
Summary and conclusion. - While the case is viewed as a 
difficult one, it is the judgment of the Board that the probable adverse 
effect of the merger on competition would be outweighed by the benefits 
the banking convenience and needs of the Lakewood Heights community.. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
approved, 
)' •• •. 
u. V .;•. ; 
SePtember 18, 1969. 
\ 
' 
-
•>>''- i .>;.,,-.. 
. 
... 
« 

29(14 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
In my judgment, the merger of TCG and ABTC is plainly 
unwarranted. 
The majority acknowledges that the transaction will have an 
adverse effect on competition. In point of fact, the merger will 
eUminate significant direct competition between the two banks* ABTC's 
barest branch is only 1.5 miles from an office of TCG. Further, there 
a r e presently only 10 banks operating in the city of Atlanta. Under 
Georgia law, it is impossible for outside banks to enter the city and 
thereby effect a reduction in the high concentration of banking resources, 
ltl this context> the elimination of a viable bank such as ABTC through 
merger with the third largest bank in Atlanta is particularly inimical 
t o the purposes of the Bank Merger Act. 
ABTC is said to have a management succession problem, as is 
a^ eged all too frequently in merger cases presented to this Board. 
there is no evidence that the bank has exhausted all reasonable 
p°ssibiiities for resolving the problem. In this connection, it should 
noted that ABTC is a profitable and growing institution. Its deposits 
e grown during the past five years at an average annual rate of 12 per 
cent 
> and its earnings have generally been in line with banks of similar 
8i2e , Georgia. Finally, if ABTC should fail to provide the services 
needed < 
in the immediate neighborhood of its offices, de novo branches 
could K established there by TCG or by any other Atlanta bank. In 

^••j'-.v?-
2905 
-2-
short, there simply is nothing in the record to justify approval of this 
anticompetitive merger. 
I would deny the application. 
. I 
SePtember 18, 1969. 
' v -c 

Item No. 25 
9/18/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION, 
York, New York, 
for approval of acquisition of voting 
^ares of The Citizens Central Bank, 
Arcade, New York. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK BY 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S e cti 0 n 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
t% t> • . . . 
l8^2(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter New York Corporation, 
New York, New York, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of 1nn 
u u Per cent of the voting shares of The Citizens Central Bank, 
Arca<ie, New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
ritten notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 
•''' 
i. 
n k s for the State of New York and requested his views and recom-
^ndat-* 
^tion. The New York State Banking Board advised this Board of its 

2907 
-2-
action, consistent with a recommendation made to it by the Superintendent, 
approving an application, filed pursuant to the New York Banking Law, with 
respect to the same transaction. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Fe<teral Register on August 16, 1969 (34 Federal Register 13342), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the applica-
tion vas forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
St 
atement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
" ' J' i I \ • -
( b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
0 
is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
c °f New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th day of September 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Maisel, Brturner, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Robertson. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
. . 
\> 
a v.v •;,'"." 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

V/ 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION FOR APPROVAL OF 
THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE CITIZENS CENTRAL BANK, ARCADE, NEW YORK 
STATEMENT 
Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York ("Applicant") 
a y j 
G8istered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
c 
° r prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting 
sh*res of The Citizens Central Bank, Arcade, New York ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
• iji ' V'.-.i 
•• 
- - - - - 
• 
- -
Quired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Superintendent 
o f Banks for the State of New York of receipt of the application and re-
q U e s t e d his views and recommendation.thereon. 
In view of his coordinate 
V ' 
resPonsibilities under New York law, the Superintendent did not comment 
dtr 
ectly to the Board. The New York State Banking Board, however, advised 
h e Board of its action, consistent with a recommendation of the 
Uperlntendent (a copy of which was also provided to the Board), approving 
PPlication with respect to the same transaction pursuant to provisions 
° f the New York Banking Law,, 

2303 
-2-
Statutory considerations, - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the transaction are 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be 
served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
°f the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant controls 
1/ 
^ billion 
in deposits and is the eighth largest banking organization 
atld the third largest bank holding company in the State of New York. 
Its five subsidiary banks account for 4.84 per cent of the deposits held 
bv all banks located in the State. Consummation of another acquisition 
• ' 4 
f A j 
y 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of December 31, 1968, 
tefer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company acquisi-
tions and mergers approved by supervisory authorities to date. 

2910 
-3-
recently approved by the Board will increase that share to 4.92 per cent, 
and consummation of both that acquisition and the present proposal would 
increase Applicant's share of such deposits to 4.96 per cent. 
Applicant's largest subsidiary bank is Irving Trust Company, 
^hich has deposits of $3.7 billion and is the seventh largest bank in 
New York City. Its other present subsidiary banks are The Merchants 
National Bank and Trust Company, Syracuse ($186 million deposits); 
Endicott Trust Company, Endicott ($57 million deposits); Dutchess Bank 
and Trust Company, Poughkeepsie ($33 million deposits); and Fulton 
County National Bank and Trust Company of Gloversville, Gloversville 
($23 million deposits). In addition, it recently received Board 
aPproval to acquire shares of Scarsdale National Bank and Trust Company, 
Scarsdale ($69 million deposits). 
Bank ($32 million deposits), is headquartered in Arcade, New 
York, 35 miles southeast of Buffalo, and has three out-of-town branches 
Within a 22 mile radius of Arcade. It is the eleventh largest of the 
3 3 commercial banks in the Ninth Banking District of the State of New 
and serves an area which includes most of Wyoming County and 
Portions of neighboring Cattaraugus County, Allegany County, and Erie 
County. Bank is the largest of five banks headquartered in the area, 
^ut ranks fourth in size among nine banks with offices therein. Two 
the banks operating in the area are much larger banks headquartered 
l n Buffalo. 

291 
-4-
None of Applicant's subsidiary banks is located in the Ninth 
Banking District, and no subsidiary of Applicant has an office located 
wi-thin 100 miles of any of Bank's offices. Deposit and loan overlap 
between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries is minimal. Acquisition of 
Bank by Applicant, therefore, would not eliminate existing competition. 
Neither does it appear that significant potential competition would be 
foreclosed 
by the proposal, bearing in mind the size of the Bank and the 
fact that New York law prohibits any of Applicant's subsidiaries from 
establishing a branch within Bank's service area or elsewhere in the 
Ni*th Banking District. 
A likely effect of the proposed acquisition would be to 
^crease competition within the area immediately served by Bank. 
Pr 
esently, Bank is the only banking institution in Arcade, the hub of 
a farming and slowly evolving industrial area. Approval of this proposal 
w°uld remove 1 home office protection" from Arcade, thereby opening the 
a r e a to possible branching by other commercial banks. In addition, by 
facilitating 
improvements in the services offered by Bank, as well as 
broadening of the services offered, and by making its geographic 
GxPansion more feasible, consummation of the proposal should result in 
®ank's becoming a more capable competitor to larger Ninth District Banks. 
The data presented reflect that Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
W°uld not eliminate existing competition or foreclose potential competition 
^ould have no significant impact upon the degree of concentration of 
anking resources in any relevant market. On the record before the Board, 

it: is concluded that the proposed acquisition would not result in a 
monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. Approval of 
the application would not substantially lessen competition, tend to 
c*eate a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
financial condition of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank is 
considered satisfactory. All have competent management, and their pros-
e s 
appear favorable. 
These considerations are consistent with approval of the 
Present application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - Bank's service 
a t e a i s largely rural, but is becoming increasingly industrialized. 
Th 
n e urbanization of the area will necessitate an increase in banking 
^sources and services, and Applicant's proposal should assist Bank 
meeting these changing needs of the area, and make it a more mean-
ln8ful competitor to larger banks in the Ninth District. While no 
nev? banking services will be introduced within the area, the acquisi-
k J 
n would likely result in increased competition by providing an 
alt 
ernative source for certain services which have heretofore been 
*^ered only by the large Buffalo banks operating in the area. Among 
services which Applicant proposes to institute or expand at Bank 
e municipal financing, real estate construction lending, and 
Personai trust services. 

2913 
46. 
\ v. v 
• 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
area are consistent with, and provide some support for, approval of 
tl*e application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
Action 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
application 
should be approved. 
September 18, 1969. 

\0f cot 
291 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
a F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 4 
9/18/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
September 18, 1969. 
AIR MAIL 
The Honorable J. Zijlstra, 
Governor , 
De Nederlandsche Bank N.V., 
Amsterdam-C, 
The Netherlands. 
Dear Jelle: 
As Governor Daane mentioned in his letter of July 18 to 
you, the Board's staff has been reviewing the question of how the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 should apply to companies located 
outside the United States. This review has now been concluded and 
the Board has decided that amendments to sections 2(c) and 2(h) of 
the Act to narrow the scope of its application abroad are in order. 
First, we believe that the definition of "bank" in section 
?(c) should be limited to domestically-chartered banks, as it was in 
the original Act. The 1966 amendment, which omitted this limitation 
and thus inadvertently covered foreign-chartered banks, was intended 
for a different purpose, and the Board believes that the objectives 
of the Act do not require coverage of foreign-chartered banks. We 
also believe that a bank that is domestically-chartered but does no 
business in the United States except as an incident to its foreign 
operations should be excluded from the definition, along with 
foreign-chartered banks. 
Second, we believe that section 2(h) should be amended to 
allow bank holding companies principally engaged in banking abroad 
to retain interests in foreign-chartered nonbanking companies that 
are also principally engaged in business outside the United States. 
In reaching these conclusions the Board has reviewed the 
legislative history of the Act to make sure that the amendments 
would not interfere with the Congressional purpose. We are 
eonvinced, after this review, that the two broad purposes of the 

'The Honorable J. Ziilstra 
Act~-to maintain a sound and competitive banking system in this 
country and to guard against undue concentration of control of 
either banks or nonbanking businesses in this country through 
bank holding companies--can be accomplished with a minimum of 
interference with banking operations in other countries. The 
amendments would help to avoid needless expense and inconvenience 
in the application of the statute abroad. They seem consistent 
with the pattern of coverage established in the original Act. 
Sincerely yours, 
n 
/ / 
i ' 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5YE5TEM 
W A S H I N G T O N . O. C. 
S O S S I 
Item No. 5 
9/18/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
September 23, 1969. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on .Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D.. C. 
20510 
! Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In accordance with arrangements made with your 
committee staff, I am submitting for inclusion in the record 
of your hearings tomorrow a statement of th> Eoard's views 
on H. R. 7491, S. 2906 and related proposals concerning State 
taxation of national banks. As requested, seventy-five 
additional copies are being supplied for th>a use of the 
Committee. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm McC. Martin, Jr. 
'•';•-••> l- l 
; 
• -
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
' 
Enclosure 

Statement of William McC. Martin, Jr. 
Chairman of the Board oJ Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Before the Senate Banking and Currency Committee 
on K. R. 7491, S. 2)06, and Related Proposals 
September 24, 1969 
Y - 
. 
: 
I appreciate your invitation to present the views of the 
Tc,.-
fioard of Governors with respect to H. R. 7491, S. 2906, and related 
Proposals concerning State taxation of nationcil banks. While this 
is a subject on which the Treasury Department can speak with more 
authority, we hope that some observations on cur part will be helpful 
•ix,a.,-: •. 
• 
;'. 
to your Committee in its deliberations on the important questions 
' 
• • 
; 
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 
involved in these bills. 
We understand that the immediate cause for the concern 
about changing the present law on this subject is that the Supreme 
C°nrt has recently ruled in two cases that national banks are exempt 
ftetto 
. r 
fr om certain forms of taxes imposed by their home States. The 
v T); - » 
; 
Second of these two rulings, according to the Comptroller of the 
St 
ate of Florida n involves a potential revenue loss of such serious 
r°portions in that State that remedial legislation is needed as soon 
a s Possible. 
.'u 
The Treasury Department has submitted for your consideration 
9 d*aft amendment to subject national banks to nondiscriminatory sales 
use taxes in the home State, and has indicated in its letter 
Q C 
°mpanying the draft that the language could be broadened to cover 
° t h er taxes, such as those specified in S. 2906. The Board agrees 

-2-
with the Treasury that "a national bank should be subject to the 
same taxation in its home State as a State chartered bank." We 
have no recommendation as to whether it is best to add to the 
statutory list of permissible taxes, as Senator Holland and the 
Treasury propose, or subject national banks to home-State taxation 
uith listed exceptions, as others have proposed. Either approach 
runs the risk of requiring an amendment in case unforeseen problems 
arise. We believe that there is merit, however, in excluding two 
forms of tax: t.axes on intangible personal property and taxes for 
which the State has substituted another tax (or imposed another tax 
at a higher rate) in the case of banks. A tax on intangible personal 
Property hits hardest those financial institutions whose assets 
consist almost wholly of intangibles; so a tax that appeared to be 
Nondiscriminatory could operate unfairly in practice if applied to 
banks. And we believe that recognition should be given to the fact that 
some States have exempted State banks from any tax that national 
banks need not pay, and have then taken this exemption into account 
i n fixing other taxes that both State and national banks must pay; 
tePeal of the exemption should not operate to subject banks to 
double taxation. 
On the question of taxation outside the home State, we 
a rc inclined to agree with the Treasury, particularly in view of 
the urgency of the need for action, as expressed by the Comptroller 
o f the State of Florida. The issue of multistate taxation of 

corporations is complex, and one on which we have limited knowledge. 
It is not involved in the two Supreme Court decisions that prompted 
introduction of the various bills before you. We believe equal 
treatment in the home State is clearly needed now; determination 
of whether changes should be made in other Ftates can await further 
study. 
In summary, the Board endorses th<* amendment submitted 
by the Treasury, with the qualifications mentioned above. 

.OFCOv>. 
Aft, • 
Mil/ 
E 1 D A R D D F 
G D V E R N C R 3 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 9 
9/18/69 
ADDRESS DFFIUIAL CDRRE5PONOENCI 
TD THE BOARD 
September 19, 1969. 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, 
President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr.. Kimbrel: 
The Board of Governors acknowledges receipt of your letter 
of September 16, outlining the views of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Atlanta wi:;h regard to the currency situation in Puerto Rico. 
The Board noted particularly the desire of the Atlanta Bank to retain 
total flexibility on how to cope with the situation beyond December 31, 
1970. 
The Board, in its meeting on September 18, 1969, accepted 
the report of the Task Force and approved the recommendations it con-
tains. The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, therefore, is formally 
requested to implement these recommendations, as follows: 
A. Enter into an agreement with the 7irst National 
City Bank of New York to the effect that its San 
Juan Branch will continue to operate ;he cash depot 
in Puerto Rico. Basic to this agreement will be 
the following points: 
1. The Reserve Bank will undertake to main-
tain the needed inventory of currency and 
coin with the depot, subject to such 
terms and conditions as may be specified 
or negotiated; e.g., relating to collateral, 
insurance, techniques of operation, etc. 
2. The Reserve Bank will pay the cost of 
shipping the needed currency and coin 
to the depot. 
3. The Reserve Bank will also pay the cost 
of returning unfit currency for destruc-
tion and of returning any excess coin. 

O f 1 0 4 
<**:}<* 
X 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel 
-2-
4. The Federal Reserve Bank will specify 
the operating procedures to be followed 
by the depot and the commercial banks 
in Puerto Rico in their relations with 
the depot, to the extent deeded neces-
sary. 
5. The Reserve Bank will pay tha cost of 
operations at the depot .for a. short 
period, not to exceed twelve months, 
until such time as agreement can be 
reached for this cost, or some appro-
priate portion of it, to be borne by 
the authorities and/or the banking 
community in Fuerto Rico. 
6. The Reserve Bank is authorized to 
assume the cost of improvements in the 
facilities of the depot which the Bank 
deems necessary to furnish adequate 
security. 
B. Encourage the Government of the Commonwealth of 
Puerto „Uco to plan for the. assumption of the operation 
of the depot by a more "neutral" manager, such as the 
Government Development Bank, with a greater share of 
the expenses, both direct and indirect, being met by 
the authorities and/or banking community in Puerto Rico. 
C. Actively work, during the 12-month period in which 
the cost of operating the depot is paid by the Bank, 
with the authorities and Bankers Association to the 
end tha; the role of the Reserve Bank will be lessened. 
The Board has noted your request that it give some indication 
of its position with regard to the matter of assigning Puerto Rico, 
the Virgin Islands, and the Panama Canal Zone to the Sixth Federal 
Reserve District. 
It is recognized that such an indication would be 
helpful in relation to the current study of Federal Reserve service 
in Florida. 
However, this matter will require a much broader exam-
ination in the context, of overall System policy before any decision 
could be reached. 
The Board has asked its staff to work with the 
federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta and New York to carry out such an 
examination. 

Mr. Monroe Kimbrel 
-3-
Further, while a factor in the Puerto Rican situation and 
the Florida study, such a consideration should not, in the Board's 
opinion, delay the implementation of a program which will enable the 
System to maintain without interruption the necessary currency and 
coin service to Puerto Rico. 
The Board would appreciate .the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta initiating negotiations with both the First National City 
Bank of New York and the authorities and bankers in Puerto Rico to 
develop the desired program. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed)- Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert 
Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

m 
SgllSW&M t i l i l M J L J 
Item No. 7 
9/18/69 
For immediate release. 
September 19, 1969. 
Ihe Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued for comment a revised proposal to narrow the category of "Federal 
funds" transactions that are exempt from Regulations D (reserves of 
member banks) and Q (payment of interest on deposits). 
As revised, the proposal would exempt from the reserve require-
ments and interest rate limitations of these regulations a member bank's 
liability on "Federal funds" transactions only with another bank and its 
subsidiaries, various governmental institutions or a securities dealer. 
Such transactions with mutual savings banks as well as commercial banks 
vould be exempt. 
An earlier version issued on June 27 was modified after con-
sideration of comments received by the Board, and in view of the 
complexity of the issues involved and subsequent related actions by the 
Board involving Kuro-dollars. Comments on the revised proposal should 
be received by the Board no later than October 20. 
A "Federal funds" transaction is one involving the purchase 
0 r sale of member bank deposits at Federal Reserve Banks (or other 
immediately available funds) for one business day at a specified rate 
°f interest, 
A copy of the revised proposal is attached. 
Attachment 
-0-

1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Parts 204, 217] 
[Regs. D, Q] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS; INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Certain Borrowings Classified as Deposits 
On June 27, 1969, the Board of Governors published for comment proposed 
anie*dments to Part 204 (Regulation D) and Part 217 (Regulation Q) designed mainly 
to n*rroy the category of so-called "Federal funds" transactions that are exempt 
0tn such regulations (Federal Register of July 9, 1969, 34 F.R. 11384).* In 
w o f comments received, the complexity of the issues involved and related 
actions 
that « 
for 
short. 
th 
te 
sec 
taken by the Bosrd subsequent to the June 27 proposal, the Board considers 
it: would be in the public interest to publish the present revised proposal 
further comment. 
In the Board's view, four classes of Federal funds "purchases" and other 
term borrowings by member banks should be excluded from the provisions of 
ions D and Q. Borrowings from other banks are one such class, because 
a r e necessary for effective functioning of the Federal funds market, which 
Useful in the implementation of monetary policy. Two other classes are (a) 
a s e " (RP) transactions in Government and Feceral agency securities 
e for Federal Reserve purchase and (b) Federal funds borrowings fr 
8ulat 
6se 
om 
U n t i e s dealers arising from the clearance of securities, both of which facili-
* 1 
t h e effective functioning of United States financial markets. Finally, the 
c°nsiders that it is appropriate to permit short-term borrowings by member 
^Gr, 
s from various governmental institutions outside the basic provisions of 
Nations D and Q. 
P t o n ^ 2 7 Proposal was a reoffering of the Board's September 25, 1968, notice of 
as l?SQfl rule making (Federal Register of October 1, 1968, 33 F.R. 14648) so far 
Vbh 
G a r l i ^ r proposal related to bringing a bank's liabilities on nondocumentary 
the ° p o sit" obligations within the coverage of Reflations D and Q. Adoption oJ. 
the ^r°P°sal offered for comment at this time would complete the Board s action on 
ePtember 25, 1968, proposal as well as the June 27, 1969, proposal. 

-2-
With this view in minti, the Board is considering amending section 
of Regulation D to read as follows: 
(f) Deposits as including certain promissory notes and other obligjitlons 
P°r ^ e purposes of this part, the term "deposits" also includes a member bank's 
l i aMl i t y o n a n y p r o B l i s s o r y note, acknowledgment of advance, due bill, or similar 
°bligation (written or oral) that is issued or undertaken by a member bank 
principally a s a m e a n s o f obtaining funds to be used in its banking business, 
Xcept any such obligation that: 
(X) is issued to, and held for the account of, (i) a domestic banking • 
o f a b a n k > ^ ^ 
a n .«Edge«« o r "Agreement" corporation operating under 
Section 25(a) or section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, or (iii) an agency of the 
U n l t ^ States; 
(2) evidences an indebtedness arising from a transfer of direct obliga-
ations of, or obligations that are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest t 
th 
G Un*ted states or any agency thereof that the bank is obligated to repurchase; 
(3) has an original maturity of more than 2 years, is unsecured, and 
stat 
G s expressly that it is subordinated to the claims of depositors; or 
(4) arisen from a borrowing by a member bank from a dealer in securities 
* 0 n e business day, cf proceeds of a transfer of deposit credit in a Federal 
ftes 
e r v e Bank (or other immediately available funds), commonly referred to as 
"fed 
funds", received by such dealer on the date of the loan in connection 
*Uh clps 
^arance of securities transactions, 
lHls P a r a p h shall not, however, affect (i) any instrument issued before 
27» 1966, or (ii) any instrument that evidences an indebtedness arising 
3 transfer of assets under repurchase agreement, issued before July 25, 1969. 
^ 
banking office in any State of the United States or the District of 
°lumbia of a bank organized under domestic or foreign law. 

-3-
» M l' > " 
f<ob 
For 
Section 217.1(f) of Regulation Q would be amended to read as follox;s: 
(f) Deposits as including certain promissory notes and other obligations, 
the purposes of this part, the term "deposits" also includes a member bank's 
Habn j f., 
iLy on any promissory note, acknowledgment of advance, due bill, or similar 
«-j-on (written or oral) that is issued or undertaken by a member bank 
ncipally as a means of obtaining funds to be used in its banking business, 
eXcent any such obligation that: 
(1) is issued to, and held for the account of, (i) a bank, foreign 
g o v e r 
^ont, monetary or financial authority of a foreign government when acting 
'» or international financial institution of which the United States is a 
°"r> (ii) an "Edge" or "Agreement" corporation operating under section 25(a) 
^ion 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, or (iii) an agency of the United States; 
(2) 
evidences an indebtedness arising from a transfer of direct oblige-
e s 
o f 
or obligations that are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest 
by> the ii • 
united States or any agency thereof that the bank is obligated to 
^
h
a
s
e
- (3) 
has an original maturity of more than 2 years, is unsecured, and 
xPressly that it is subordinated to the claims of depositors; or 
(4) arises from a borrowing by a member bark from a dealer in securities 
f o r 
^ H e 
K ousiness day, of proceeds of a transfer of deposit credit in a Federal 
V , 
e Bank (or other immediately available funds), commonly referred to as 
d
e * a l 
f tunds1', received by such dealer on the date of the loan in connection 
W*th c u 
arance of securities transactions. 
K 
Par, 
agraph shall not, however, affect (i) any instrument issued before 
> 1966, or (ii) any instrument that evidences an indebtedness arising 
^ » tr 
ransfcr of assets under repurchase agreement issued before July 25, 1969. 

2927 
-4-
Upon adoption of these proposed amendments, the interpretation 
PubHshed as § 217.137 (Published Interpretations of the Board, SI 3261) 
( " t 
transfer from deposit account to 'borrowed money accour.: and payment of 
Merest thereon") would be revoked. 
The principal effect of the proposal is to bring within the coverage 
Regulations D and Q a member bank's liability on a so-called "Federal funds" 
tta 
faction with any person other than a bank and its subsidiaries, various 
^°vernmental institutions, or a securities dealer.** 
; 
.. , , 
• 
... _
, 
, . 
Under the proposal, a member bank that "purchases" Federal funds 
V°Uld be under a duty to take such action as may be necessary to ascertain the 
n 3 t u r G of the "seller" in order to justify classification of its liability on 
transaction as "Federal funds purchased" rather than as a deposit. Any 
Member bank that has given general assurance to another member bank that sales 
y. it of Federal funds ordinarily will be for its own account, and thereafter 
Cutes such transactions for the account of others, would be expected to 
itldicate the nature of the actual lender with respect to each such transaction. 
it: failed to do so., the selling bank would be responsible for any resulting 
iolati0n of Regulation Q and would be deemed by the Board as violating section 19 
ReSulation 0, since it would have caused the purchasing bank's inadvertent 
* 
conformance. 
Tk 
thai. 
° n ly liability on a Federal funds transaction with a securities dealer 
. . 1 •. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
1 
J _ j 
1 i ' m i t- n i ' l . 
of; j ^ 0 ^ be exempt" from the reserve requirements and interest rate limitations 
f of 
Of^etions on the date of the" borrowing. The Board considers that the option 
* 
T) 
U X C H i p L 
J JLUlll 
c u t : 
L C O ^ i - V G 
i t v i u j - n - i u v n w o 
^ulations D and Q is one that arises from a borrowing for one business 
tta
 0 f federal funds received by the dealer from the clearance of securities 
Of Actions on the date of the borrowing. The Board considers that the opt: 
C a t l i n g securities transactions in Federal funds facilitates the efficient 
tnigh
tio^ing of certain key United States securities markets. Use of this option 
5ubje t 0 n d t 0 b e i n l l i , ) i t c d ijt d e a l c r s a l e s o f s u c h F e d c r n l f u n d s t 0 b a n k s 
w e r e 
to the regulai:ions. 

-2-
Although the proposal relates mainly to the permissible scope of 
pederal funds transactions outside Regulations D and Q, the proposal is also 
Signed to mairtain the effectiveness of the Board's 1966 action under which 
Promissory notes issued by a member bank principally as a means of obtaining 
funds to be used in its banking business are classified as deposits.*** 
To the same extent as at present, liabilities on borrowings from a 
b a n k (including a member bank, a nonmember commercial bank, a mutual savings 
batlk. a cooperative bank, the Export-Import Bank of the United States, the 
Government Development Bank in Puerto Rico, and a foreign bank) would remain 
^empt from the reserve requirements and interest rate limitations of Regula-
U o n s D and Q. In particular, liabilities on borrowings from foreign offices 
°f b*nks, while remaining exempt from Regulation Q, would remain subject to 
t h e sPecial reserve requirements of § 204.5(c) of Regulation D, which becamc 
Gffective September 4, 1969 (Federal Register of August 20, 1969, 34 F.R. 13409). 
New provisions would be added under which (1) a member bank's 
Uability on a borrowing from a Federal agency would be exempt from Regulations 
* a n d Q, and (2) a member bank's liability on a borrowing from a foreign govern-
*ent> a monetary or financial authority of a foreign government when acting as such 
0 t a a international financial institution of which the United States is a member 
V°Uld he exempt from Regulation Q. If the latter provision is adopted, § 204.5(c) 
suJ,Jhero a ^ m b e r bank issues an obligation principally for another purpose -
th«\as usually would be the case with respect to a due bill issued to evidence 
b*nk's liability to deliver securities or foreign exchange sold - it need net 
touS"ify i t s liability thereon as a deposit. However, the circumstances sur-
fov 
n g 
obligation issued principally for a purpose other than obtaining funds 
jJ- U 8 e 
the ordinary course of business may cause an obligation to become sub-
Cv 
t 0 ^gulation Q - for example, if the bank's liability on a due bill extended 
tho°?d a P^iod exceeding that necessary to complete the securities sale, or if 
the 
n k p a i d interest to the customer in excess of the amount that accrued on 
securities sold during the delay in delivery. 

2929 
-2-
Regulation D will be amended so that the special reserve requirement thereof 
Vould apply to borrowings from the specified classes of institutions, just as are 
^rowings from foreign banking offices. 
The proposal applies to nondocumentary obligations as well as 
j 
0cumentary obligations undertaken by a member bank to obtain funds for use in 
its banking business. Also, under the proposal, in order for any bank liability 
to another bank, Edge or Agreement corporation, or certain official institutions 
to be classified as a nondeposit, the liability must be for the account of such 
an °r8anization. Except for Federal funds transactions, the procedures with 
resPect to which have already been described, the Board expects that any such 
Ability would be issued on a nontransferable basis. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, interested 
^eis°ns are invited to submit relevant data, views, or arguments. Any such 
Serial should be sulmitted in writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors 
°f the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not 
Q t e r fchan October 20:> 1969. Under the Board's rules regarding availability 
Of 4 
. 
formation (12 CF3. Part 261), such materials will be made available for 
"UsPection and copying upon request unless the person submitting the material 
C s that it be considered confidential. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 18, 1969. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
