MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 26, 1970 
1 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Friday, June 26, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance JL/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Massey of the Division of Federal 
. 
Reserve Bank Operations 
The usual weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
After discussion based on the reports, members of the staff who 
had attended for the purpose of the review left the room. 
First Banc Group of Ohio. The Board authorized the issuance 
of an order reflecting its action on June 18, 1970, approving the 
s • . • •, „••.-•- 
-
1/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1 . 9 S 4 
6/26/70 
-2-
application of First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to The Peoples National Bank and Trust 
Company, Dover, Ohio. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Government securities dealers. Mr. Cardon reported that the 
General Accounting Office had been requested by a Congressional committee 
to review from an accounting standpoint financial reports of the Govern-
ment securities dealers, including those rendered to the Federal Reserve. 
He was not sure whether the General Accounting Office would go through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in entirety or whether it would 
also go direct to the dealers, but he had advised that a rather sensi-
tive area was involved and had suggested that the General Accounting 
Office address a letter to the Board describing its mission and specif-
ically what it had been requested to do by the Congressional committee. 
He anticipated that such a letter would be received next week. 
After some discussion, it was agreed that the Board would await 
the receipt of a letter from the General Accounting Office. 
Commercial paper market. 
It was reported that there had been 
a deterioration of the atmosphere in the commercial paper market yester-
day, with some commercial paper issuers finding that holders of their 
maturing paper were uneasy about rolling over the paper, and therefore 
turning to lines of bank credit. 

1 9 2 5 
6/26/70 
-3-
There followed a discussion of the availability of bank loans 
in the circumstances, and this led to the question of the possibility 
of Federal Reserve lending, particularly under the third paragraph of 
section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. Question was raised about initi-
ating discussion of loans under that paragraph with the Federal Reserve 
Banks, but some members of the Board felt that the Board should first 
go further in familiarizing itself with the problems involved, and it 
was indicated that some background materials would be distributed by 
the staff. Governor Maisel suggested that it would be especially helpful 
for the Board to have from the staff a paper discussing the economic and 
political theory involved in extension of credit under the third para-
graph of section 13, with various hypotheses spelled out. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that the 
Board would address itself again to the problem next week, with the 
benefit of such materials as the staff could provide. 
Presidential Commission. 
It was understood that M r . Holland 
would discuss with President Swan of the San Francisco Reserve Bank 
and then bring back to the Board for further consideration a question 
that had been raised about making available to the staff of the Presi-
dential Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation stationed in 
quarters at the Seattle Branch the services of an assistant who would 
be carried on the Branch pay roll. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1 9 2 6 
Item No. 1 
6/26/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC., 
COLUMBUS, OHIO, 
for approval of acquisition of voting 
shares of the successor by merger to 
Peoples National Bank and Trust 
Company, Dover, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 8
42(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
( 1 2
 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., 
Columbus, Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
t h
e Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent (less 
S e c t o r s ' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of a new national 
b a t
* into which would be merged The Peoples National Bank and Trust 
Company, D o V e r , Ohio ("Peoples National"). The new national bank has 
8i
&nificance o n l y 
a a 
a m e a n s 
0 f acquiring all of the shares of the bank 
t o
 be merged into it; the proposal is therefore treated herein as a proposal 
to acc
iuire shares of Peoples National. 

1<JZ7 
- 2 -
A9 requited by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Register on April 29, 1970 (35 Federal Register 6770), providing an 
°Pportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with respect 
to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the United 
S t
ates Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
comments and views has expired and all those received have been considered 
b
V the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such 
consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the ninth largest banking organization in Ohio, 
c
°ntrolling five banks with deposits of $530 million. (All banking 
d
at a a r e 
a g 
o f D e c e m b e r 3]^ 1969, adjusted to reflect holding company 
f o r
mations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) Acquisition 
o f
 Peoples National (deposits $37 million) would result in Applicant 
b e c
o m i n g the eighth largest banking organization in the State; it would 
c
°ntrol less than 3 per cent of bank deposits in Ohio. 

1 9 ^ 8 
- 3 -
Peoples National is slightly more than one-half as large as the 
only other bank headquartered in Dover, and is the second largest of eight 
banks in Tuscarawas County (population 80,000). Applicant's closest 
subsidiaries are located in the adjoining Counties of Coshocton and 
Guernsey, and their nearest offices are located 10-20 miles from any 
°ffice of Peoples National, The area intervening Peoples National and 
^ e present subsidiaries is largely undeveloped, and no significant corn-
Petition would be eliminated by consummation of the proposal. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
o f
 the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competition 
any relevant area. The banking factors, as applied to the facts of record, 
l e
nd some weight toward approval of the application, in the light of 
applicant
1
s expressed intention to augment the capital of Peoples National. 
Consummation of the proposal would also enable Peoples National to offer 
0
 loader array of specialized loan, trust, municipal financing, and 
computer services, and these considerations lend additional weight in favor 
0 f
 a p p r o v a l < 
I t 
i s 
t h e Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would 
b e
 ^ the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the findings 
P r i z e d above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided 
t h a
* the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 

. 4 . 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the date of this Order, unless such time be extended for good cause 
by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 26,1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
•• • 
-
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
