Minutes for 
May 5, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
adv ise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, May 5, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Williams, Gramley, Eckert, Bernard, 
Ettin, Fisher, Fry, Keir, and Kelty of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Wood, Baker, 
Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty reported on the Government 
securities market, with particular reference to the current Treasury 
financing, following which Mr. Fry commented on prospective bank 
credit developments. Copies of the tables distributed in connection 
with the review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Following discussion of the reports, all members of the 
research divisions connected with the presentation withdrew, as did 

1745 
5/5/67 
-2-
Miss McWhirter, and Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations, entered the room. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, and San 
Francisco on May 4, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective numbers indicated, 
were approved unanimously after consideration of background material 
that had been made available to the Board: 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
1 
Corporation regarding the application of 
Carbon Emery Bank, Price, Utah, for con-
tinuation of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Memorandum from the Division of Examina- 
2 
tions regarding the application of Wachovia 
Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina, to establish a branch in Graham. 
Mortgage credit report (Item No. 3). The Board had been asked 
by Chairman Sparkman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Urban Affairs 
of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee to prepare a report, deal-
ing particularly with three specified questions, in connection with a 
broad-scale study being conducted by the Subcommittee concerning 

r ? 4 8 
5/5/67 
- 3 -
(a) what actions might be taken to avoid a repetition of last year's 
sharp cutback in the availability of residential mortgage credit, and 
(b) what recommendations might be made to insure that an adequate 
supply of credit would be available to meet future needs for home 
financing. 
A draft of such a report had been discussed at the Board meet-
ing on Wednesday, May 3. A revised draft, dated May 4, taking account 
of suggestions made at that meeting had then been distributed to the 
Board for its consideration today. 
Certain further changes, principally of an editorial nature, 
were suggested at this time. Subject to the understanding that those 
changes agreed upon would be incorporated, the report was then approved 
for transmittal to Chairman Sparkman. Copies of the letter sent to 
Chairman Sparkman and of the report, as transmitted, are attached to 
these minutes under Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
D. Lucille Tutt as Secretary to Governor Sherrill, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $10,481, effective the date of entrance 
upon duty. 
Michael Arnow as Summer Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,331, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 

1747 
5/5/67 
-4-
Appointments 
(continued) 
Eugene E. Snyder as Operations Analyst, Division of Bank Opera-
tions, with basic annual salary at the rate of $10,481, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Harry Lynwood Bowen, Jr., as Systems Analyst, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $15,106, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
John Salerno as Systems Analyst, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $15,629, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective May 7, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Legal 
Eleanor Q. Clarkson, Legal Records Clerk 
$ 5,096 
$ 5,256 
Research and Statistics 
Evelyn M. Hurley, Economist 
13,769 
14,217 
Emanuel Melichar, Economist 
15,629 
16,152 
Sonia DeAraujo Moreno, Statistical Clerk 
4,269 
4,413 
Helmut F. Wendel, Economist 
15,629 
16,152 
Examinations 
Millicent R. Hurlbut, Secretary 
5,331 
5,507 
Administrative Services 
Alice Geris, Charwoman 
3,731 
3,853 
Clayton B. Stinson, Assistant Head Messenger 
4,557 
4,701 
Transfer 
James A. Pflueger, from the position of Analyst-Operations 
Supervisor to the position of Senior Analyst, Division of Data 
Processing, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of 
$10,927, effective May 7, 1967. 
i 

1748 
5/5/67 
Military leave 
-5-
Bernard M. Wennemer, Clearing Assistant, Division of Data 
Processing, beginning the close of business May 5, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Linda I. Wing, Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business May 10, 1967. 
Secretary 

" 
' 
' 
~ 
1749 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/5/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 5, 1967. 
Honorable K. A. Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. Randall: 
Reference is made to your letter of April 27, 
1967, concerning the application of Carbon Emery Bank, 
Price, Utah, for continuance of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 
There have been no corrective programs urged 
upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been 
fully consummated, and there are no programs that the 
Board would advise be incorporated as conditions of 
admitting the bank to membership in the Corporation as 
a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 2 
5/5/67 
May 
1967 
To: 
Board of Governors 
Subjcct: Proposed branch of Wachovia 
^ 
Bank and Trust Company, 
From: 
Division of Examinations 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
r 
in Graham, North Carolina, 
Wachovia Bank and Triist Company has made application to the Board 
for permission to establish a branch in Graham, North Carolina. The State 
approved the branch on March 22, 1967, following a public hearing at which 
three other banks strongly protested approval of the application. On 
April 11, 1967, The North State Bank, Burlington, North Carolina, filed a 
notice of appeal with the Commissioner of Banks and with the clerk of Wake 
County Superior Court for a review of the action of the State Banking Com-
mission in approving the application of Wachovia. 
One of the banks that strongly opposed Wachovia!s proposed branch 
at the hearing before the State Banking Commission was First National Bank 
of Eastern North Carolina, Jacksonville, North Carolina. This bank had 
received approval of the Comptroller of the Currency to establish a branch 
in Graham in January of 1966. However, on August 18, 1966, the United States 
District Court ruled in favor of The North State Bank, Burlington, granting 
an injunction to prohibit First National Bank of Eastern North Carolina from 
establishing a branch office in Graham, On February 10, 1967, First National 
Bank of Eastern North Carolina again made application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency for permission to establish a branch in Graham. This applica-
tion is still pending before the Comptroller, 
In a letter dated April 12, 1967, addressed to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond, attorneys for First National Bank of Eastern North Carolina 
requested an opportunity to present their objections to Wachovia's proposed 
branch and to file a brief in opposition to the application. 
A meeting with the attorneys representing First National Bank of 
pastern North Carolina has been scheduled for May 12, I967, at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond. Mr. Egertson of the Board's staff will attend the 
meeting at the Reserve Bank. It has been arranged that a court reporter will 
be present so that a complete transcript of the meeting will be available. 
The attorneys for First National Bank of Eastern North Carolina 
have indicated that they will file a brief with the Reserve Bank at the time 
ot the meeting setting forth their objections to Wachovia's proposed branch, 
it is believed that a copy of the brief as well as a copy of the transcript 
taken of the meeting should be made available to Wachovia. 
^ 
T h 6 D i v i s i o n recommends that the Board authorize the release of 
these documents to Wachovia. In the event the Board approves this recom-
mendation, attorneys for First National Bank of Eastern North Carolina will 
be iniormed that their brief and a copy of the transcript of the meeting 
will be furnished Wachovia. 

1751 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
Item No. 3 
5/5/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 8, 1967. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Housing of the 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
As you requested in your letter of March 17, 
there is enclosed a statement on mortgage credit, including 
recommendations for improving the flow of credit to meet 
home financing needs. 
With all good wishes, 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
T 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 

- ^ M M M M 
1752 
MONETARY FOLICY AND THE RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE MARKET 
Report by 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
to the Subcommittee on Housing and Urban Affairs of the 
United States Senate Banking and Currency Committee 
i 
R' X 
1 
May 8, 1967 

1753 
MONEtARY POLICY AND THE RESIDENTIAL kCRTGAGE MARKET 
Residential mortgage credit and the activities r>f rhe Federal Reserve 
Board in carrying out its monetary policy 
The ultimate goals of monetary policy are general in nature — 
to contribute toward achieving high employment with sustainable growth, 
a stable dollar at home, and overall balance in our financial transactions 
with other nations. The primary instruments through which monetary policy 
strives to further these objectives include changes in the cost and avail-
ability of credit through open market operations in Government securities 
for the account of the Federal Reserve Banks, changes in reserve require-
ments of member commercial banks, and changes in the rates and conditions 
under which member banks can borrow from the Federal Reserve Banks. With 
these general goal s and instruments as given, the monetary policy of the 
Federal Reserve has been and must continue to be oriented toward the 
broad domestic and international economic scene. 
But Federal Reserve actions to influence the ultimate aggregate 
targets of monetary policy -- maximum employment, economic growth, and 
price stability -- must always take into account the impact of monetary 
developments on current and prospective conditions within particular 
sectors of the economy. Critical difficulties emerging in any one sector 
could affect the sustainability of overall growth. Or they could affect 
the liquidity and solvency of major segments of our financial system. 
One sector that the Federal Reserve follows closely in 
carrying out monetary policy is the residential mortgage market 
— 
the nation's largest single net user of individual savings. Develop-
ments within this sector have obvious implications for our ability to 

1754 
-2-
improve living standards, for the sustainability of aggregate demands 
for goods and services, and for prices of a major service -- shelter 
They also have a direct bearing on the viability of private financial 
institutions that held some $225 billion in loans secured by residential 
real estate at the end of last year. Indirectly, developments in 
residential finance — and through this market to residential construc-
tion — have widespread effects on other types of credit, on production, 
and on employment. 
Periods of credit restrainto 
In periods when aggregate demands 
for goods and services tend to run ahead of the supply of resources 
available to meet these demands, the task of general economic policy is 
to initiate actions that will discourage enough spending to head off an 
upward spiral in pric 
es and wages. Monetary instruments are used toward 
this end by reducing the availability of credit and by raising its cost. 
But the intensity of the monetary attack on inflation in any given period 
will depend on the extent to which fiscal policy is also helping to check 
spending. 
For economic policy to be effective under these circumstancesf 
it is clear that aggregate spending has to be cut somewhere, to levels 
below those that would otherwise have prevailed. In practice, the types 
of spending most affected by monetary restraint are those in sectors where 
demand is postponable and credit financing accounts for a large share of 
total outlays. Such characteristics are, of course, most typical of out-
lays for durable goods, and among these housing is a prime example. 
Use of long-term credit is unusually large in the financing of 

1 7 5 5 
housing, teflecting not only the extreme durability and the relatively 
large unit Prl Ce of the structures involved, but also the substantial 
number of dwellings built or traded in any one year. Buyers of both 
new and used residential properties rely heavily on long-term mortgage 
financing. In the case of new 1-family homes built for sale, for example, 
an average of 95 out of every 100 dwellings sold in 1965 used mortgage 
credit to some degree, with the average credit transaction involving a 
loan of nearly $19,000 (excluding finance charges), or almost 88 per cent 
of the average purchase price. Homebuilders rely perhaps even more heavily 
on short-term construction financing which is ordinarily available only 
if commitments for permanent mortgage financing can also be obtained. 
Altogether, demands for residential mortgage credit accounted for as much 
as three-tenths of total net short-term and long-term funds raised in all 
credit markets in 1965. 
These special characteristics of housing outlays and their 
financing make residential construction as well as used-hcme transactions 
inherently vulnerable to cyclical fluctuations. For this reason, unless 
monetary actions are to be abandoned as an instrument of economic policy, 
housing is likely to continue to show larger variations between periods 
of monetary ease and restraint than most other types of spending. 
Monetary policy and housing markets in 1966 
In 1966, however, the cyclical impact of economic events was 
unusually marked on residential construction and on the exchange of used 
houses. While policy-induced pressures to reduce spending were widely 
felt throughout the economy, the particular weight of these constraints 
on the housing market was particularly severe. The magnitude of the con-

1756 
-4* 
traction in outlays for housing reflected the interaction of several 
factors. 
Uith the escalation of U.S. participation in the Vietnamese 
Vax* aggregate spending -- already at a high level as a res ult of the 
ongoing business capital boom -- began to intensify upward pressures on 
prices and wages. Although a number of fiscal actions were initiated in 
the first half of 1966 to limit the growth of business and consumer 
spending, the lion's share of the responsibility for checking inflationary 
tendencies was placed on monetary policy. In these circumstances, with 
business demands for credit remaining very heavy, interest rates rose 
sharply. The resulting intense competition for funds created special 
pressures on the nonbank thrift institutions that traditionally finance 
the bulk of housing activity. As interest rates rose generally, these 
institutions found an increasing share of total savings flows being 
allocated directly to securities markets. Consequently, funds available 
for housing were substantially curtailed. 
As these unusual pressures on thrift institutions — and through 
them on the housing market — became apparent, the Federal Reserve took a 
number of actions designed to moderate their impact. These steps were 
intended to redistribute some of the burden on thrift institutions to 
other sectors of the economy, in part by dampening the interest rate 
competition that was contributing to the highest rates paid for savings 
in many decades. 
— In July, the Board of Governors lowered the Regula-
tion Q ceiling on maximum interest rates that member 

I 
, 
commercial banks could pay on fttev> multiple-maturity 
time deposits. In the same month, the Board raised 
reserve requirements on time deposits held by each member 
bank in excess of $5 million. Another increase in reserve 
requirements was made in September, when bank issues of 
promissory short-term notes were also brought under 
reserve-requirement and interest-ceiling regulations. 
These actions, along with retention of the 4 per cent 
ceiling on rates that banks could pay for savings 
deposits, exerted limits on the capacity and incentive 
of banks to compete for savings with other types of 
depositary institutions that ordinarily invest a larger 
share of their resources in mortgages than banks do, 
-- Early in September, the Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks sent a letter to all member banks 
asking for their cooperation in curtailing expansion in 
loans to business which had been growing at an unusually 
rapid rate. Faced with substantial potential run-offs 
in large-denomination certificates of deposit as market 
yields rose above the rate ceiling on CD's, banks might 
otherwise have sold securities instead of cutting back 
on business lending in order to adjust their positions. 
The adverse impact on interest rates of heavy bank 
liquidations of securities, in turn, would have spilled 
over into other financial markets, including the 

residential mortgage fodtkfet. Toward the end of the year, 
the September 1 letter was rescinded when it became evident 
that underlying economic conditions had changed. 
-- In late September, the Board -- acting under 
new temporary authority that broadened the basis for 
setting interest rate ceilings on time and savings 
deposits -- lowered the maximum interest rate that 
member banks could pay on individual time deposits of 
under $100,000. Federal agencies that regulate savings 
and loan associations and mutual savings banks also 
established similar ceilings under this new authority. 
These joint actions prevented further acceleration in 
the maximum interest rates paidon savings, although some 
lenders which had been below the new ceilings initiated 
additional rate increases. 
-- Finally, during the period of market stringency 
that developed last summer, the Board of Governors made 
temporary arrangements under which the Federal Reserve 
Banks could provide emergency credit facilities, under 
specified conditions, to nonmember commercial banks or 
to nonbank depositary-type institutions, including savings 
and loan associations and mutual savings banks. While 
this emergency facility was not expected to be needed 
o 
and was never used, it offered assurance that aid could 
be made available against the remote possibility of 

1759 
"7-
exceptional outflows of funds that could not be met 
through usual adjustment procedures. The temporary arrange-
ment, which later expired, was not intended to be a long-
run source of Government credit for the residential 
mortgage market. However, the System has indicated its 
willingness to reinstitute this arrangement if it should 
agai 
n become desirable to do so at some future date. 
Looking back on the events of 1966, it seems clear that a dif-
ferent mix of monetary and fiscal policy -- which placed more reliance 
on an increase in tax rates or a cutback in federal spending than on 
monetary restraint -- would have helped to moderate the steepness of the 
general advance in interest rates. This in turn would have created less 
extreme pressures on savings flows to thrift institutions. At the same 
time, however, it is also clear that even if increases in interest rates 
had been more moderate, the close traditional tie between housing and 
credit advanced by the specialized depositary-type lenders would have 
contributed to a significant cutback in the supply of credit available 
for both new and , UEOT'L.- housing. Because thrift institutions lend long 
and borrow short, they are peculiarly vulnerable to general increases in 
interest rate levels. The relative rigidity of earnings on their essen-
tially long-term assets limits the ability of these institutions to compete 
for funds in the short run by raising rates paid for new and existing 
savings. 
Typically in the postwar period, the relative share of 
depositary-type savings in total savings flows has turned down during 

1760 
-8-
phases of strong economic girbwth and high and rising market interest 
rates, as in 1955, 1959, and 1966. This behavior has emphasized that an 
important, if marginal, portion of depositary flows always comes from 
yield-conscious savers who are in a position to consider direct market 
investment as a convenient alternative. Market instruments, such as 
Treasury obligations, commercial paper, Federal agency securities, and 
corporate and municipal bonds, may lack the degree of protection assured 
to holders of insured savings accounts and shares. But they offer the 
immediate attraction of higher yields over a range of maturity terms and--
on longer maturities -- the prospect of capital gains if going market 
rates should eventually decline. Stocks, of course, usually provide some 
current yield plus the chance of rapid accruals in capital value. 
In addition to these long-standing structural peculiarities of 
residential finance, the impact of credit restraint on housing in 1966 was 
affected by special mortgage market conditions which had developed as an 
outgrowth of tendencies begun earlier in the 1960's when the supply of 
mortgage credit was abundant. Before turning to a consideration of the 
types of reforms which might be adopted to lessen the disproportionate 
cyclical vulnerability of housing in the future, a more detailed review--
illustrating how both the traditional and the special peculiarities of 
residential finance complicated the picture in 1966 -- will help to 
highlight the need for reform. 
Factors affectinp, the availability and price of residential mortgage 
credit in 1966 
Last year's combination of intense general credit demands and 
greater than usual emphasis on monetary restraint in lieu of stronger 

1761 
-9-
•' •.. i . i, 
1 I; i. n 
fiscal policy affected the availability df credit in residential 
mortgage markets more than in most other types of credit markets. Net 
growth in outstanding residential mortgage debt during the second half 
of the year was down by two-fifths from the record pace in the second 
half of 1965. New commitments for mortgage loans probably fell by some-
what more. For the year as a whole, net extensions of residential 
mortgage credit declined by $6.5 billion, or by three-tenths. 
Nonbank thrift institutions. As has been indicated, the bulk 
of the reduction in mortgage credit reflected the marked decline in net 
savings flows to the nonbank depositary-type institutions that specialize 
in mortgage lending. Net acquisitions of deposits at mutual savings 
banks dropped to the lowest level in 5 years, and net acquisitions of 
shares at savings and loan associations fell to the lowest level in 13 
years. Additional funds available for expansion of their residential 
mortgage portfolios were curtailed accordingly. 
The reduced inflows to these thrift institutions partly 
reflected high and rising yields on competitive market instruments, as 
noted earlier, and continued aggressive competition of commercial banks 
for savings. It also reflected a general reluctance or inability of 
•these thrift institutions to increase the rates payable on their own 
deposits or shares, at least through mid-year, because their earning 
assets consisted chiefly of long-term mortgages bearing yields that had 
largely been fixed earlier when mortgage rates were generally appreciably 
lower. Also, savings and loan associations during much of 1966 were 
inhibited from raising rates on share accounts by regulatory restrictions 

-10-
±'7ii2 
on advances from the Federal Home Loan Banks. These constraints wete 
part of a continuing policy intended to achieve a sounder basis for 
growth than had taken place at some savings and loan associations 
earlier in the 1960's, when they had promoted high dividend rates and had 
greatly increased borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Banks. 
Over the first half of 1966, savers found a growing incentive 
to shift funds out of the thrift institutions that offered lower yields 
on fixed-value claims. In that period, savings accounts then in effect 
generally permitted savings withdrawals to be made virtually on demand. 
The resulting large outflows reduced sharply net growth in savings shares 
and deposits. After mid-year, most large savings banks and some West 
Coast savings and loan associations raised their savings rates to a point 
where their net inflows began to improve. After late September, once the 
new ceiling rates on share accounts had been established and modifications 
had been made in previous regulations on Federal Home Loan Bank advances, 
other savings and loan associations that were below the ceiling also 
raised their rates. 
By the fourth quarter, market rates of interest had reached a 
peak and had begun to decline. Accordingly, growth of savings and loan 
association share capital also picked up, and growth in deposits at 
mutual savings banks improved further. 
The reduction in net savings received by thrift institutions 
last year was compounded by a drop in cash inflows resulting from pre-
payments on outstanding mortgage loans. Return flows from such prepayments 
fell off sharply as the reduced volume of new lending slowed turnover in 

-11-
1783 
older properties and as more buyers were obliged to assume outstanding 
loans in order to finance real estate transactions. For savings and loan 
associations -- the dominant mortgage lender -- loan retirements (as 
measured by new loans made minus changes in loans held) were down $2.1 
billion over the record level of the preceding year, with most of the 
decline taking place in the second half of 1966. Cash flows from both 
loan retirements and net growth in share capital declined by nearly $5.8 
billion. 
The relatively limited degree of liquidity held by the thrift 
institutions further restricted their ability to meet demands for residen-
tial mortgage credit in 1966. During the early 1960's when credit 
conditions were easier, the liquidity of these lenders had been built up 
more slowly than their total resources. By the end of 1965 -- just before 
entering a period that would test their liquidity severely -- savings and 
loan associations reported that their holdings of cash plus U.S. Govern-
ment securities of all maturities accounted for the smallest share of 
their total assets (8.7 per cent) in 24 years. The average liquidity of 
mutual savings banks was the lowest in several decades. Ratios of reserves 
to total liabilities for both savings and loan associations and mutual 
savings banks were also comparatively low. 
A1 so, the easier credit conditions of the early 1960's, coupled 
with the elimination of earlier housing shortages dating from World War II, 
had left some savings and loan associations with a large volume of 
troubled or foreclosed real estate on their hands. While the origination 

- 1 2 -
1784 
of these loans may have initially added high-yielding assets to their 
mortgage portfolios, the subsequent acquisition of the collateral 
through foreclosure (or the equivalent) later depressed net earnings by 
increasing servicing costs. It also reduced cash flows scheduled from 
principal and interest payments and reduced holdings of potentially 
saleable loan collateral. By the end of 1965, savings and loans probably 
owned in excess of $1 billion in real estate other than association 
premises, compared with about $290 million four years earlier, thus 
further constricting their investment flexibility. 
Finally, member savings and loan associations borrowed heavily 
from the Federal Home Loan Banks during the early 1960's, mainly to finance 
additional expansion of their portfolios during a period of rapid though 
decelerating growth in their net savings inflows and net mortgage 
acquisitions. By the end of 1965, Bank advances outstanding were nearly 
$6 billion, more than double the figure only 4 years earlier. Since 
nearly all the open market borrowing of the Federal Home Loan Banks was 
short term, virtually all their outstanding debt had to be refinanced 
each year. This practice limited the degree to which the Banks could 
provide new money for additional advances later when general conditions 
tightened. As it was, the Banks went to the money market in 1966 for 
$7.2 billion in order to refinance outstanding obligations and to raise 
$1.6 billion in new money. The higher Interest rates payable on these 
obligations were passed on to all borrowing member associations in higher 
costs of operation, since rates on outstanding advances were changed in 
line with rates on new advances. 

-13-
1 7 8 5 
Faced with the need to roll over most outstanding debt and to 
raise some new funds in an already congested market, the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board felt constrained to husband the lending power of the 
Federal Home Loan Banks in order to cover withdrawals of share capital 
at member associations. For this reason, advances for purposes of 
expanding mortgage credit were discontinued after early spring. Member 
associations after mid-year were required to draw down their own liquid 
assets to some extent before borrowing from the System to cover with-
drawals. Both changes, of course, restricted the degree to which savings 
and loan associations could extend additional mortgage credit at a time 
when their own internal resources were under pressure. 
All these combined factors resulted in a sharp slowdown in net 
acquisitions of residential mortgages during 1966 by savings and loan 
associations and by mutual savings banks. Net residential mortgage takings 
of savings and loan associations dropped some $5.0 billion, or by more 
than half, below the already reduced 1965 figure. Net takings by mutual 
savings banks declined by nearly $1.4 billion, or by a third, below the 
near-record total a year earlier. Taken together, the reduced pace of 
lending of these two lender groups accounted for the bulk of the $7.6 
billion net decline in residential mortgage debt extended by the four 
major types of private institutional lenders, including commercial banks 
and life insurance companies in addition to savings and loan associations 
and mutual savings banks. (See table) 
Commercial banks^ While commercial banks experienced a modest 
slowing of savings growth during the first half of 1966, the composition 
of their inflows changed sharply toward higher-cost funds, as in the case 

1766 
-13a-
60 
G 
•H 
T) 
/—\ 
c 
4-1 
ca 
c 
4J 
<u 
CO 
a 
•U 
4J 
CO 
O 
3 
4J 
4J J-l 
•V 
RD <D 
CO 
0) a. 
Q o 
r—1 
U 
CO 
CJ (Xi 
c 
00 
O 
CO 
CO 
00 
•u o 
CO 
a 
M a 
CO 
O a, 
s >> 
4J 
H 
3 
1-4 
o 
CO T3 
JG 
•H A 
4J 
4J CO 
•H 
e 
O 
T3 <U 
M 
•H "3 
CO 
CO r-t 
M 
a o 
CO 
ocj A 
r—1 
r—1 
B 4-4 
o 
>-i o 
•v 
CO 
14-1 a> 
14-1 
c a 
o 
O 
z H 
CO 
C 
c 
o 
•H 
•H 
r—1 
(0 
»—1 
0) 
•H 
CO 
PQ 
CO 
a 
M 
o 
ts 
00 
oo 
m vO r-l vO 
vO 
m 
> 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
M CM 
i—i o o o o 
o 
o 
M <t 
co 
CO VO <t in VO 
m 
M 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
M CO 
CM 
o o o o 
o 
o 
VD 
on 
r-l 
vO 
m 
o <r vO m 
vO 
in 
M 
• 
• 
« 
• 
• 
• 
M <r 
CO 
r-4 o r-t o 
o 
o 
CM 
co 
<T vO vO 
o 
i-i 
M 
• 
« 
• 
• 
• 
* 
» 
CO 
o o rH O 
1-1 o 
vo 
m 
ON 
to 
m 
o-
vO 1-4 
vO 
• 
O N 
m 
i—i i—i 
m m 
vO 
• 
ON 
i—I 
»—I CM 
<t CO 
VO 
• 
ON i—l 
r-t CM 
vo 
oo on o <r> 
• 
• • • • 
o o <M o 
i-l N OA <}• vD 
• 
> • • « 
m 
r—i o cnj o 
oo 
m on oo r>» 
• 
• • • • 
co 
o o r-i o 
on 
o 
m 
oo 
m 
00 
<y 
i-l 
o 
o 
H 
O 
H 
C 
•H 
CM 
CM 
• 
• 
• 
• 
CM CM CO CM 
m vO 
• 
• 
• 
• 
CO CO 00 CM 
m 00 CO ON 
• 
• 
• 
• 
CM CO ON CM 
CO 
<U 
•H 
C 
CO 
cu 
G 
CO o 
CO 
G CJ 
co 
G 
o <u 
CO CO l-l o 
PQ .sd 
C 
e 
CO 
1—4 CO a M 
CO PQ CO P 
•H 
CO 
O CO CO G 
U 00 00 M 
QJ G G 
El •H •H a 
11 > > 14-1 
o CO rj •H 
CJ CO CO i-l 
<f 
o 
oo 
eg 
o 
co <u 
•H 
O 
C 
O 
t>0 
< 
CO 
M 
a 
H3 
a 
vO 
o 
i— 
o* 
m 
r-i ON 
• 
• 
• 
o 
o 
o 
1 
vO 
o 
CM 
CM CM 
O 
CO 
I 
CO 
U 
O 
XI 
U 
<u 
a 
o 
U 
Pu 
J2 
O 
o 00 
•H 
• 
• 
JD 
CM o 
00 
00 
c 
• 
• 
•H 
CM o 
C 
3 
O 
f>» ON 
U 
• 
• 
CO o 
<4-1 
O 
a> 
1—1 1-4 
CO 
• 
» 
3 
CO 1—1 
CO 
o 
a 
CO 
1-1 
I-I 
• 
• 
CO 
i-4 
4-1 
O 
4J 
<r 
o 
• 
• 
4J 
<f i-4 
•3 
T3 
CO 
CO 
• 
• 
• 
4J co 
i—l 
o 
c co 
a 
»—4 CM 
CO 
• 
• 
B "d 
CO i—l 
G 
CO CO 
I-I 
•H CO 
CO p 
4-> Q) 
VO vO 
a 4-1 
• 
• 
Q V4 
1—1 CO 
co 
i—4 
3 
• cr 
CO 
ai a 
i—l 
•H CJ 
• 
• 
M a 
vO m 
a 
i-i 
CO 4-1 
<u 
a> 
r—1 
c CO 
• 
* 
c 
m vO 
•t o 
i-4 
•a BO 
M •H 
CO 
o CO 
PQ (X 
6 
<U o 
> o 
M 
O co 
CO 4J 
<L> U 
06! (U 
*4-4 
i-l 4-1 
«0 CO 
U 
a o 
i-4 
T3 CO 
•H 
<u i—1 
s i—l 
Pn CO 
a •H 
M-4 0 
i CO 
IW 
u 
•H 
u 
O U 
erf 
4J 1-4 
p 
1 
O 
i-4 2 
CO 
•H 
B 
o 
m 
•co-
G 
CO 
.C 
4-1 
CO 
CO 
<y 
•J 
# 

-14-
1767 
of other depositary institutions. As banks began to compete more 
actively for time deposits of individuals and businesses, many promoted 
new instruments, such as savings certificates and savings bonds, with 
higher yields and longer maturities than regular passbook accounts. Part 
of the funds flowing into these time deposits merely represented transfers 
from passbook savings, and some came from nonbank depositary institutions. 
But commercial banks also suffered from the aggregate shift in savings 
toward direct investment in market securities. Thus, even though bank 
time and savings deposits rose at an annual rate of 10 per cent during the 
first half of 1966, this rate was a third below the pace of expansion 
during the record preceding year. 
After mid-1966, banks found it increasingly difficult to add to 
their time and savings deposits, in view of rising market yields on 
competitive investments, the unchanged ceiling on time deposits of 
$100,000 and over, and the reduction in ceiling rates on time deposits of 
le ss than $100,000, made in September. In fact, total time and savings 
deposits of commercial banks remained almost unchanged on a seasonally 
adjusted basis from the end of August through November, but improved in 
December as general credit conditions eased again. 
Commercial banks allocated a larger share of their net increase 
in loans and investments to residential mortgages in 1966 than in any of 
the five previous years. But their net takings of residential mortgages 
(including construction loans) were reduced sharply in the second half of 
1966, after holding close to their year-earlier pace during the first 
six months. For the year as a whole, the net decline in bank acquisitions 

I 
-15-
17G8 
of residential mortgages came to about $700 million, a fifth below the 
record 1965 level. 
Life insurance companies. As general credit conditions 
tightened during most of 1966 and interest rates rose, life insurance 
companies came under increasing pressure from growth in policy loans that 
upset earlier projections of cash flows available for investment. Slowing 
in mortgage prepayments further contributed to a reduction in cash flows. 
This led life insurance companies to reduce their net acquisitions of 
residential loans by about $400 million, or by a sixth, although their 
net takings of higher-yielding nonresidential mortgages increased by about 
as much as their residential acquisitions declined. 
For insurance companies as well as for depositary lenders, a 
potential source of loanable funds through the sale of existing seasoned 
mortgages was severely limited in 1966, despite the variable impact of 
tighter credit conditions both geographically and in terms of timing. In 
part, this limitation reflected the fact that no effective secondary 
market mechanism exists for the ready transfer of seasoned residential 
mortgages, especially conventional loans, at going prices. The sale of 
seasoned Federally-underwritten home loans to the Federal National 
Mortgage Association was ruled out, of course, by FNMA regulations, 
issued in mid-January, that confined its secondary-market purchases to 
newly-made mortgages in order to conserve its resources within statutory 
limits, 
FNMA activity. A record net increase in FNMA acquisitions of 
unseasoned residential mortgages during 1966 helped to offset in part the 

I 
-16-
1769 
large aggregate decline in takings by the four major types of private 
financial institutions. FNMA added $2.3 billion to its residential 
mortgage portfolio, chiefly through purchases from mortgage companies. 
Not all this total, however, represented a net addition to the 
overall, availability of residential mortgage credit. Some funds raised 
by FNMA through its borrowings from the Treasury or through the open market 
undoubtedly attracted savings that might otherwise have been placed with 
depositary institutions that also invest in mortgages. Also, some mortgages 
purchased by FNMA provided funds that mortgage sellers reinvested else-
where than in the mortgage market. Even so, FNMA1s net support to the 
residential mortgage market was probably quite large, although its 
increased volume of open market borrowings helped to raise general market 
rates that encouraged the general shift in savings from direct lending 
institutions. 
New commitments on residential mortgages. The nature of the 
process of financing residential properties usually requires a mortgage 
commitment by the lender in advance of the actual disbursement of funds. 
This practice means that cutbacks in new commitments that have an immediate 
impact on plans for the construction of new houses or the transfer of 
existing homes may show up only after some time has passed in a reduced 
pace of new loans closed and funds disbursed. They may be evidenced even 
later in declines in net acquisitions of mortgages, if loan repayments 
also fall off. 
Fragmentary evidence suggests that new commitments on residential 
Mortgages were cut back even more sharply than net loan acquisitions for 

all trajor types of private lenders. Lenders were obliged to cut back 
heavily on new commitments in order to honor outstanding commitments 
that bulked increasingly large in view of reduced cash flows below earlier 
projections. Such projections, in turn, had been based on extrapolations 
of favorable cash flow trends earlier in the 1960's. They led many 
lenders by the end of 1965 to commit themselves farther ahead than they 
had done at any time in the recent past. 
Greater lender selectivity -- along with higher construction 
costs and housing prices -- apparently worked to increase the average 
amount of mortgage credit used per loan commitment last year, continuing 
a long trend in this direction. Thus the number of new residential mortgage 
commitments was probably cut back by even more than the dollar volume of 
funds committed for additional lending. This factor further constrained 
the number of new housing starts and the number of sales of used dwellings. 
Builders of new homes as well as buyers of new and used homes 
were hit by these cutbacks in new commitments, since both largely depend 
on the same credit sources and instruments. Production of new housing 
and transfers of used homes declined sharply after the early part of 1966. 
Other influences also contributed to a minor extent to the decline in 
starts, including the aftermath of earlier overbuilding in some areas and 
the dampening effects on demand of continuing increases in costs of land, 
materials, and wages. 
By late fall, general credit conditions eased and interest rates 
in nonmortgage sectors declined. Since rates on savings at depositary 
institutions remained at or close to the record levels reached earlier, the 

1771 
-18-
pressures that produced large net savings outflows during much of 1966 
began to work in reverse to generate large savings inflows toward the 
end of the year. Rate ceilings imposed under new legislative authority 
worked to direct a larger share of the total toward nonbank thrift 
institutions. 
Not all these net savings inflows, however, were translated 
at once into a sharply higher volume of new residential mortgage commit-
ments at this usually slack season in the real estate market. Many lenders 
first went about rebuilding their depleted liquidity positions and 
reducing their indebtedness. Many potential borrowers held back in 
expectation of still further easing. Others were not immediately aware 
that mortgage credit had become more readily available at lower costs. 
Or they were not yet in a position to seek out new commitments. 
The cost of credit. The cost of new home mortgage commitments 
rose sharply in late 1965 and through most of 1966, as did rates on all 
other types of market instruments. Yields on newly-made multifamily 
mortgages apparently increased rapidly, too. Toward the end of last year, 
home mortgage rates peaked and then began to decline at a pace that 
accelerated in the early months of 1967. In both their up and down phases, 
returns on home mortgages appear to have changed more rapidly than in any 
earlier postwar period when they gained a reputation for stickiness. 
Their greater sensitivity last year seems to have reflected largely the 
unusual degree of tightness that developed in the availability of funds 
for such loans. 
In some Eastern states where going yields on residential mortgages 

-19-
1772 
rose above usury ceilings, lending within local markets was said to 
have been cut back more than might otherwise have been the case. And in 
regions where interest rates on mortgages had risen most, discounts on 
Federally-underwritten loans with fixed contract rates had increased 
dramatically despite several upward adjustments finally reaching the 
statutory ceiling of 6 per cent. Discounts on FHA-insured and VA-guaran-
teed home mortgages -- which are largely borne initially by new-home 
builders and used-home sellers -- reached levels that discouraged offerings 
of new or used houses even where financing commitments were available at 
the advanced yields then prevailing. Even 6 per cent FHA home loans 
carried secondary-market discounts averaging as many as 7.3 percentage 
points in the Southwest last November, according to the series published 
by the Federal Housing Administration. Indirectly, the large discounts 
inhibited demand for new houses, since the resale market for used homes 
provides strong support for the new-house market. 
Some potential borrowers -- faced with a sharp cutback in the 
supply of new residential mortgage commitments and the unwillingness of 
many would-be sellers to absorb large discounts on Federally-underwritten 
loans -- turned to less usual financing practices in order to consummate 
transactions. Assumed loans, purchase money mortgages, and installment 
land contracts were said to have been often involved. So, too, were 
junior loans carrying negotiated rates that may reflect the inferior 
bargaining position of the borrower and the inferior legal position of 
the creditor in foreclosure. 

-ib. 
i 
Suggested Approaches to Reform 
Corrective actions designed to lessen cyclical fluctuations 
in the availability and price of residential mortgage funds need to 
be addressed to the special structural problems of the mortgage market 
that were highlighted by the 1966 experience. The preceding review of 
that experience suggests many of the changes that might be considered. 
Among these are the restructuring of nonbank depositary institutions 
which specialize in mortgage lending, improvements in the market-
ability of the mortgage instrument, reductions in barriers to the free 
flow of mortgage funds among geographic regions and among types of 
structures, and changes in the policies and powers of Federal agencies 
that specialize in mortgage and housing markets. Such reforms would 
help to lessen the impact of credit restraint on the residential mort-
gage market. But even if all these changes were made, the residential 
mortgage market and housing would undoubtedly still prove to be more 
most 
sensitive than/other sectors to sharp cyclical changes in credit avail-
ability and credit costs. 
The reports of the Presidential Committees on Federal Credit 
Programs and on Financial Institutions,made in 1963, included numerous 
proposals for reform; the Board of Governors continues to endorse the 
general principles set forth in those two reports. Some time earlier 
in 1961, the Board submitted a requested report to the Senate Banking 
and Currency Subcommittee on Housing that contained several observations 
about how instability in residential construction might be lessened in 
the future. 

1774 
-21-
In recommending what should be considered now, the Federal 
Reserve Board believes that the following broad guidelines are of cru-
cial importance: 
-- a flexible fiscal policy should play a greater part 
than it did in 1966 in acting, when needed, to restrain aggregate 
economic activity. Timely reductions in income tax rates earlier 
in the 1960's contributed greatly to the sustained economic growth 
which developed after the 1960-61 recession. If, with the added 
economic stimulus provided by escalation of the Vietnamese War, 
an income-tax increase had been enacted early in 1966, the burden 
of restraining general economic activity x;ould have fallen less 
heavily on monetary policy and hence less severely on the resident-
ial mortgage market and on housing. 
-- the residential mortgage market--both primary and 
secondary--should be integrated closely with the general capital 
market, not insulated from it. But at the same time, certain 
institutional changes should be made to enhance the ability of 
the residential mortgage market to compete prudently for the 
limited aggregate supply of available credit. It should be re-
cognized that the result would involve payment of higher rates 
at certain times for savings funds and for mortgage credit. 
— if special public measures appear warranted to ease 
the impact of tightening general credit conditions on the avail-
ability or price of residential mortgage credit, such actions 
should be taken without sacrificing the objectives of monetary 
restraint. Moreover, the extent of the subsidy element involved 

-22-
should be revealed clearly, and the substitution of public for 
private credit should be minimized. 
Specifically, the Board of Governors suggests, without 
necessarily endorsing them at this time, that the feasibility of the 
following proposals be considered as a means of promoting greater 
cyclical stability in the flow of new commitments for residential mort 
gages and in their direct and indirect costs: 
(1) Improve the liquidity of thrift institutions so as to 
withstand better the pressures that develop when general credit con-
ditions tighten. 
First, encourage the thrift institutions to issue a greater 
variety of longer-term liabilities, including savings certificates and 
other instruments designed to retain rate-conscious funds for a con-
siderable period of time. Greater use of longer-term savings instru-
ments would provide a better balance against the maturity structure of 
the assets.of these institutions. It would help to limit the extreme 
volatility of savings flows such as those which developed in 1966. 
This approach would also have the advantage of permitting payment of 
higher returns marginally to longer-term accounts without increasing 
the yield to every depositor or shareholder. 
Second, establish flexible secondary - reserve requirements 
for nonbank thrift institutions. These reserve requirements should 
be implemented so as to encourage a cushion of funds to be built up 
in appropriate periods of sustained general credit ease that could 
become available later when credit tightened. Reserve requirements 

1776 
-23-
would also provide a margin of relief against excessive reliance on 
advances from the Federal Home Loan Banks as a supplementary means of 
expanding credit under conditions of monetary restraint. Experience 
during 1966 suggested that even the resources of these Banks can become 
particularly limited when general capital markets become congested. 
Finally, such reserve requirements would tend to maintain loan quality 
by discouraging excessive mortgage lending in easy-money periods. 
Excessive expansion of mortgage credit in one period can lead sub-
sequently to a large accumulated volume of illiquid foreclosed real 
estate. 
Third, study the question of whether an increase in the 
investment options available to nonbank depositary institutions 
specializing in mortgage investment would enhance their mortgage lend-
ing potential at times when general interest rate levels are rising. 
An important aspect to be considered is the extent to which broader 
investment powers might facilitate greater flexibility in portfolio 
earning power and liquidity. Improved flexibility in earnings might 
permit lenders to limit savings outflows during periods of general 
credit tightness by making more rapid upward adjustments in their 
rates payable on neu and existing savings accounts. Improved liquidity 
might permit the liquidation of short-term assets to provide additional 
funds for relending. Both, in turn, could allow these lenders to main-
tain a more stable flow of new mortgage commitments at such times. 
A related subject to be studied in this connection is the 
federal chartering of mutual savings banks and the broadening of their 
lending powers. Consideration of this subject would, of course, 

1777 
-24-
require attention to ways in which institutions set up as Federal 
savings banks 
or converted to them — can bear in a appropriate 
manner the types of burdens applicable to commercial banks insofar as 
reserve-type requirements and taxation are concerned. 
Fourth, increase the statutory and financial capacity of the 
Federal Home Loan Bank System to assist its members, by providing the 
Banks with greater flexibility to change rates on advances without 
relating them directly to the current cost of funds. Administrative 
consideration might also be given to achieving a better balanced debt 
structure of the Banks, thereby lessening the need to refinance out-
standing indebteness during periods of credit tightness, as was re-
quired in 1966. 
(2) Improve the marketability of residential mortgages so 
as to make them more attractive and to permit lenders to adjust their 
portfolio positions more readily to conditions of fleneral credit r e -
straint. 
First, provide greater flexibility in setting maximum con-
tract interest rates on FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgages, if 
not eliminate these ceilings entirely. Authority should at least be 
provided to set rates so as to keep discounts on new loans within 
reasonable amounts at all times, subject only to the limits of State 
usury laws. If substantial discounts such as those that developed 
during 1966 could be avoided in the primary market, lenders would be 
more prone to invest in Federally-underwritten loans when credit con-
ditions tightened rather than in conventional mortgages or in other 

-25-
177S 
types of assets. Home sellers would be more willing to offer their 
duellings on the market if there were no need to absorb substantial 
discounts, as in 1966, and home buyers would be obliged to resort 
less often to costlier methods of financing. 
Second, explore through the Federal National Mortgage Assoc-
iation the feasibility of setting up a trading desk so as to act as a 
dealer in residential mortgages. 
In this capacity, FNMA would try to 
maintain a continuous market on both the buying and the sell-
ing side. 
If a trading desk operation should ultimately prove to be 
workable, it would help, among other things, to keep in daily, if not 
hourly, touch with market prices and yields, thereby facilitating the 
administration of flexible ceiling rates on new FHA and VA mortgages as 
well as 
/providing a source of needed information for all mortgage brokers and 
investors. A more viable secondary market in general would help to 
facilitate portfolio adjustments that were difficult, at best, to arrange 
during 1966 in the absence of such a centralized exchange. 
Third, study through the Federal Housing Administration the 
possibility of enhancing the marketability of FHA-insured mortgages so 
that they would trade more like corporate and municipal securities or 
Treasury obligations. 
In part, this step could involve reducing further, 
if not eliminating altogether, the residual noninsured risks now attached 
to Federally-underwritten mortgages, insofar as ultimate holders other 
than orginators are concerned. 
(3) Improve the allocation of residential mortgage funds so 
as to assure a more efficient distribution of credit during periods of 
general_credit restraint. 

- 2 6 -
1779 
Reexamine geographical and other barriers to mortgage invest-
ment so that appropriate steps can be taken to make them more nearly 
comparable or to do auay with them altogether. This approach, subject 
to appropriate safeguards of loan quality, would involve a review of 
the mortgage investment powers and origination practices of financial 
institutions. It would also involve a consideration of what the Federal 
Government could do positively to encourage the States to bring their 
mortgage and foreclosure codes as close as possible to uniformity and 
to adopt more realistic usury statutes, where appropriate. All these 
differential institutional restrictions worked to inhibit both primary 
and secondary mortgage investment during 1966. 
Among the two most important measures to examine are the possi-
bility of modifying, if not eliminating, geographical and type-of-
structure restrictions on mortgage lending by Federal and State-char-
tered depositary institutions, and the achievement of closer uniformity 
in maximum statutory or regulatory loan-to-value ratios and loan maturi-
ties among different types of lenders. 
Broaden sources of funds available for residential 
mortgage investment, thereby reiving less on depositary institutions 
that tend to be vulnerable to renditions accompanying general credit 
restraint. 
Encourage more sales of participation certificates or other 
instruments against pools of residential mortgages, subject to appro-
priate safeguards. Additional efforts in this direction, by Federal 
agencies or by large private lenders, should help to attract savin-s 

1780 
-27* 
from such investors as pension funds or trusts that are reluctant to 
purchase r.nd service individual mortgages outright and prefer to invest 
large blocks of funds in instruments pcycble only at maturity. Small 
investors, too, could be attracted to certificates that substitute the 
superior credit of the issuer for that of the mortgage borrower, and 
provide for investment in minimum amounts uell below the $15,000-plus 
average now required for a single newly-made first mortgage. 
