FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 21?, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

731 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 25, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
The Fidelity Bank, Rosemont, Pennsylvania, approving the issuance of 
capital notes. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Oral presentation. 
In a memorandum dated March 22, 1971, the 
Legal Division reviewed requests that had been received for a public 
hearing in connection with the application of Central and State National 
Corporation, Birmingham, Alabama, to become a bank holding company. 

3/25/71 
-2-
Since there was no legal requirement that a hearing be held, and since 
there was little prospect that significant additional information would 
be developed, the Division suggested that the question be considered 
primarily from a public relations standpoint. 
Following discussion, the staff was authorized to proceed with 
arrangements for an oral presentation centering on the competitive 
aspects of the application, to be held in Alabama before a staff member 
who would be designated after consultation by Mr. O'Connell with 
Mr. Holland. 
First Florida Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated March 18, 1971, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of First 
Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of Midway 
Bank at Tampa. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation. 
Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to First National City Overseas Invest-
ment Corporation, New York, New York, (copy attached as Item No. 2), 
(1) denying its request for suspension of conditions set forth in the 
Board's letter of June 27, 1969, (2) granting consent, subject to cer-
tain conditions, for the corporation to continue to hold stock of Bangkok 
First Investment & Trust Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand, and (3) amending condi-
tions in the Board's letter of June 27. 

733 
' 
. NJ <I, 
.
.
.
. 
> . 
... 
, y % 
• ' 
li
3/25/71 
-3-
•
. 
Interest rate ceiling authority. Approval was given to the 
sending of a letter urging favorable consideration by the House of 
S. J. Res. 55, which would extend the interest rate ceiling authority 
(Public Law 89-597) until June 1, 1971. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York on March 4 and March 18, and by the Federal 
i • "• •{•. 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Dallas 
on March 11, 1971, of the rates on discounts and advances in their exist-
ing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland and Kenyon then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Director appointment. 
It was agreed that Governor Robertson 
would advise President Hayes of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
that the Board would be prepared to appoint Mr. Arthur Sulzberger, Pres-
ident and Publisher of the New York Times, as a Class C director of the 
Bank for the unexpired portion of the term of Whitney M. Young, Jr., 
deceased, if it were ascertained that Mr. Sulzberger would accept the 
appointment if tendered. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D C3F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
I d 
3/25/71 
* 
ADORERS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE ROARD 
March 25, 1971 
Board of Directors 
The Fidelity Bank 
Rosemont, Pennsylvania 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 21771(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $30,000,000 in subordinated notes by The Fidelity Bank, 
Rosemont, Pennsylvania, as proposed in Vice President Littleton's 
letter of March 4, 1971, with attachments to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

voo^V.-. 
••f^LRtsv:-* 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
3/25/71 
73 
A D D R E S S 
o r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E D 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 25, 1971 
First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
- -
Gentlemen: 
In response to your request the Board has reviewed the 
conditions imposed in its letter of June 27, 1969, granting consent 
for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to acquire 50 per cent of the stock 
of Bangkok Investment Company, Ltd., subsequently organized as 
Bangkok First Investment & Trust Ltd. ("BFIT"), Bangkok, Thailand. 
On the basis of the information furnished in your letters of May 27 
September 25, and December 2, 1970, and March 1, 19Z1, the Board 
has concluded that while no single stockholder of BFIT may have 
absolute control of BFIT, whether by number of shares, election of 
directors, or appointment of officers, FNCOIC's potential degree of 
control over the basic policies of BFIT are equal to those of the 
other stockholding group. 
The Board has therefore concluded that 
it would not be appropriate to permit BFIT to undertake any activi-
ties or operations which would not be permissible for FNCOIC, and, 
accordingly, the Board denies your request to suspend the conditions 
set forth in its consent of June 27, 1969. 
The Board cannot condone the violation of the clear meaning 
of conditions on which its consents are granted. 
However, in re-
sponse to the alternate requests in your letter of May 27, 1970 
and in view of the circumstances in this case, the Board grants'con-
sent for FNCOIC to continue to hold the stock of BFIT after BFIT 
(1) issues up to approximately $1,750,000 in" bonds, debentures, 
Promissory notes or similar obligations (including the $500,000 of 
obligations issued in December 1969),and (2) continues to hold 
40 per cent of the shares of Bangkok Home Development Company ("BHDC") 
^hich BFIT acquired for approximately $20,000 (only 25 per cent of 
^hich is paid), provided that BIIDC does not undertake any activities 
0 r operations in connection with real estate or otherwise that is 
£ o t i n the nature of financing, such as managing and developing 
housing and real estate. 

First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation -2-
t-ir 
The Board's consent to the holding of shares of BHDC by 
BFIT is also granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BHDC if BIIDC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
•hold stock, or if BHDC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Thailand or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of BHDC as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BHDC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BHDC were a • corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they re-
late to restrictions on loans granted by BHDC in Thailand in the 
currency of that country. 
In accordance with your request in your letter of September 
1970, the Board also amends condition (3) in the second paragraph of 
its letter of June 27, 1969, insofar as it relates to BFIT (which was 
therein referred to as BICL) to read as follows: 
"That any share acquisitions or dispositions, for its own 
account other than as underwriter or dealer, by BFIT be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if BFIT were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act." 
i 
. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
