MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 16, 1971 

3466 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 16, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Ilexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistants, 
Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 

346 
12/16/71 
-2-
Hearing on armored car and courier services. Pursuant to action 
at the meeting on November 9, 1971, the Board ordered a hearing to consider 
whether armored car and courier services are closely related to banking 
under the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act and thus per-
missible activities for bank holding companies, subject to Board approval 
in individual cases. On November 30, 1971, the Board approved a motion 
by the National Courier Association and the National Armored Car Associ-
ation to reschedule the hearing for January 19, 1972. Also, on November 
30, the Board denied a motion by these associations to conduct the 
hearing under formal rule-making procedures. 
On December 13, 1971, Wachovia Corporation and Wachovia Courier 
Corporation requested that separate hearings be conducted for armored 
car and courier services. In a memorandum dated December 15, 1971, the 
Legal Division recommended that the Board grant the request for separate 
hearings and stated that separate hearings would facilitate a sharpening 
°f the issues, provide a clearer record, and avoid possible confusion 
that might otherwise result from a joint consideration. 
Mr. O'Connell reported that subsequent to the preparation of 
the December 15 memorandum a request had been received from the National 
Courier Association and the National Armored Car Association for recon-
sideration of the Board's denial of their request for a formal hearing. 
In 
the present circumstances, Mr. O'Connell pointed out that there would 
he certain advantages in a formal-type hearing conducted by a hearing 
examiner. 

346.8 
12/16/71 
-3-
During discussion Board members indicated that they favored 
separate formal hearings, which preferably would be scheduled consecu-
tively, with the same hearing examiner. There being agreement on 
this procedure, the staff was asked to proceed with the necessary 
arrangements. 
Reports on enrolled bills. The Office of Management and 
Ok L i >'; 
' 
i" C»: 
U 
; ' : 
• 1 I ' •
1
' 
'• O i 
• ' . • 
'.' •; • 'I 
: 
- - . 
» i' 
! • 
Budget had requested the Board's views on the following enrolled bills: 
H.R. 9961, to provide Federal credit unions with two additional years 
to meet the requirements for insurance, and for other purposes; S.J. 
Res. 176, to extend the authority of the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development with respect to interest rates on insured mortgages, 
to extend and modify certain provisions of the National Flood Insurance 
Act of 1968, and for other purposes; and S. 2891, to extend and amend 
the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970, and for other purposes. 
In a memorandum dated December 15, 1971, the Legal Division 
recommended that the Board indicate that it favored approval of H.R. 
•M.: I -, :; • • ; 
h< 
CCrejsmy f n Opt'uiOl that 
a*:,. 
9 % 1 and S.J. Res. 176; draft letters were attached. 
Discussion developed that the Board favored the Legal Division's 
d^aft letter with regard to S.J. Res. 176. However, with regard to 
H.R. 9961, there was a preference for modification of a draft letter 
t ii "i 
: ; ; »r c .' OH' n I' r" 'i i .1 £ - "" a a.' • • % \ \ • : n , »i 1 r 3 ^ v • a " • * 
Presented by Mr. Holland, which stated that the Board had no reason 
,,) 
a.v? kt> 
v/ouVJ bo a ^ n -ai, 
rhe• l<>:*.it 
dlviaioi 
to object to approval of the bill. Agreement was then expressed with 
respect to a draft letter presented by Mr. Hexter indicating that the 
Board recommended approval of S. 2891. 

3469 
12/16/71 
-4-
The Board thereupon unanimously approved the three letters 
to the Office of Management and Budget, copies of which are attached 
• i 
as Items 1, 2, and 3. 
First Oklahoma Bancorporation. The Board had received an 
application from First Oklahoma Bancorporation, Inc., Oklahoma City, 
Oklahoma, to acquire additional shares of Underwriters Life Insurance 
Company, also of Oklahoma City. First Oklahoma, a one bank holding 
company, had acquired its initial 24 per cent interest in Underwriters 
in January 1971, pursuant to section 4(c)(12) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, before adoption of the Boardfs regulation requiring the 
filing of an irrevocable declaration to cease being a bank holding 
company by January 1, 1981, before any acquisition could be made under 
that section. 
According to a memorandum from the Legal Division dated December 
1971, the application raised a question whether there was a reasonable 
basis for the holding company's opinion that underwriting general life 
insurance is closely related to banking. If so, the Board would be 
required to publish in the Federal Register a notice of opportunity for 
hearing on the issue. On the other hand, if the Board should conclude 
that there was no reasonable basis for the opinion, First Oklahoma 
would be so advised and no notice would be published. The Legal Division 
recommended the latter alternative and a draft letter was attached to 
the memorandum. 

3470 
12/16/71 
-5-
After discussion during which several changes in the wording 
of the draft letter were agreed upon, unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to First Oklahoma Bancorporation in the form attached as 
Item No. 4. It was understood that the staff would consider the feasi-
bility of requiring First Oklahoma to divest itself of its present stock 
ownership in Underwriters prior to December 31, 1980. 
Supplementary retirement benefits. In October 1971, the Chairman 
of the Administrative Board of the Retirement Plan for Employees of the 
Federal Reserve System appointed an ad hoc committee to review the 
adequacy of the allowances of persons retired under the Bank Plan. In 
its report dated December 8, 1971, the ad hoc committee recommended a 
4 per cent supplement to the pension benefits for person retired under 
the Bank Plan prior to January 1, 1971, to be effective in January 1972 
and to be applied on the same terms as those used for the 5 per cent 
supplement of January 1971. 
The System Committees on Employee Benefits, in a memorandum dated 
December 15, 1971, recommended approval of the supplement as proposed 
by the ad hoc committee, subject to its approval by the Retirement Plan's 
Administrative Board and a determination by the Internal Revenue Service 
that the supplement would not unfavorably affect the status of the Plan. 
Governor Maisel reported on the recommendation of the System 
Committee on Employee Benefits. He also brought to the Board's attention 

3471 
12/16/71 
-6-
a proposal before the Administrative Board of the Retirement Plan to 
incorporate into the Retirement Plan the supplement provided in 1960 to 
certain retirees under the Bank Plan who had not qualified for a social 
security benefit. This supplement and the method by which it had been 
funded was the subject of a memorandum from the Executive Secretary of 
the Retirement Plan to the Chairman of the Administrative Board dated 
August 14, 1971, and a copy has been placed in the Board's files. The 
purpose of incorporating this supplement into the Retirement Plan was 
to simplify its administration and to provide for terminal funding by 
utilizing approximately $125,000 of the excess reserves in the Retirement 
Plan, thus ^eliminating the need for annual payments by the Reserve Banks 
to cover the cost of the supplements to the retirees. The terminal 
funding would not result in any change in the amount of individual 
supplements or in the list of persons entitled to receive the benefit. 
As a related matter, Governor Maisel noted that a supplement 
granted Board Plan retirees in November 1962 had also been funded by 
annual payments by the Board rather than by making a lump-sum terminal 
funding payment. The payment for the year ending June 30, 1972, was 
now due and amounted to $25,158.79. Governor Maisel felt that the same 
procedure recommended for terminal funding of the 1960 Bank Plan supplement 
should be applied to funding of the Board's liability for the 1962 
supplement, utilizing excess reserves in the Retirement Plan for covering 

3472 
12/16/71 
-7-
the cost. While the amount needed for terminal funding of the Board 
Plan supplement was not available at this time, it was clear that the 
cost in the long run would be less than if payments were made annually 
by the Board and, furthermore, the funding through utilization of 
excess reserves in the Retirement Plan would eliminate the annual 
charge from the Board's current budget. 
After discussion, the recommendations of the System Committee 
with respect to the 4 per cent supplement to be paid effective in 
January 1972 and the terminal funding of the two supplements referred 
to by Governor Maisel were approved unanimously. Copies of letters sent 
to the Executive Secretary of the Retirement Plan under dates of December 
16 and December 23 are attached as Items 5 and 6, respectively. 
Reports on competitive factors. With a memorandum dated December 
3, 1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation presented a proposed 
report for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competi-
tive factors involved in the proposed merger of Trenton Trust Company, 
Trenton, New Jersey, into The National State Bank, Elizabeth, N. J., 
Elizabeth, New Jersey. The report described the overall competitive 
effect as "slightly adverse." 
Discussion indicated that three members favored the staff 
recommendation, while the other three preferred describing the competitive 
effect as "adverse." Accordingly, action was deferred and the staff was 
asked to revise the report for further Board consideration. 

12/16/71 
-8-
The Board approved unanimously, for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, a report on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of Peoples Bank & Trust Co., Pageland, South Carolina, 
with First-Citizens Bank and Trust Company of South Carolina, Columbia, 
South Carolina. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition existing between 
Peoples Bank & Trust Co., Pageland, and First-Citizens Bank and 
Trust Company of South Carolina, Columbia, and there is some 
potential for increased competition between them. Consummation 
of the instant proposal would increase First-Citizens share of 
deposits in Chesterfield County from 16.5 per cent to 39.4 per 
cent. The overall competitive effect of the merger would be 
adverse. 
First at Orlando Corporation. By orders dated November 9, 1971, 
the Board approved the application of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, 
Florida, to acquire shares of National Bank Gulf Gate, Sarasota, Florida, 
and denied the application of First at Orlando to acquire shares of 
National Bank of Sarasota, Sarasota, Florida. First at Orlando had filed 
a request for reconsideration of the denial, and in a memorandum dated 
December 7, 1971, the Legal Division recommended that the request be 
denied. 
In discussion, it was pointed out that the owners of the two 
Sarasota banks would not sell unless applicant agreed to purchase both 
;'banks. Although the Board was not in favor of applicant owning both 
banks, it was receptive to a suggestion that staff propose to applicant 
that the Board would consider an application to acquire both banks with 

; 
3 4 7 4 
12/16/71 
-9-
the stipulation that applicant would divest itself of National Bank of 
Sarasota within a reasonable period of time. 
It was therefore agreed that no action would be taken on the 
request for reconsideration until staff could report applicant's views 
on the foregoing suggestion. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Wells Fargo Bank. On December 7, 1971, the Board approved a 
report to the Comptroller of the Currency expressing as "substantially 
adverse" the competitive factors involved in the application of Wells 
Fargo Bank, National Association, San Francisco, California, to merge 
First Western Bank and Trust Company, Los Angeles, California. As part 
°f the proposal, the application indicated that 41 of First Western's 
^ranches would be divested within two years of consummation of the merger. 
At today's meeting the Board considered a letter from the 
Comptroller of the Currency reflecting Wells Fargo's stated willingness 
t o accept as a condition for approval a stipulation that it divest itself 
the 41 branches within 90 days (rather than two years) from the date 
consummation of the merger. In a memorandum dated December 15, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation stated that the two-year time 
Pgriod was not a major determinant in arriving at the "substantially 
adverse" conclusion; therefore, shortening of the time period would not 
change the findings that the merger would eliminate substantial existing 

3475 
12/16/71 
-10-
and potential competition between the merger proponents, while in-
creasing the already high degree of concentration of banking resources 
in California. A draft reply to the Comptroller was attached. 
Following discussion, the Board unanimously approved the letter, 
with the understanding that it would be treated as an internal communi-
cation between Federal agencies and not made part of the public information 
file. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 7. 
Director appointment. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta whether Mr. Gert H. W. 
Schmidt, President, Channel 12 of Jacksonville, Inc., Jacksonville, 
Florida, 
would accept appointment, if tendered, as a director of the 
Jacksonville Branch for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1972, 
with the understanding that if it were found that he would accept, the 
aPPointment would be made. It was also agreed that if it were found 
respect to Mr. Harold K. Smith, Executive Vice President, John H. Swisher 
and Son, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida. 
;t : 
that Mr. Schmidt was not available, similar steps would be taken with 
Secretary's Note: It having been ascertained that 
Mr. Schmidt would accept, an appointment telegram 
was sent to him on December 21, 1971. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

,V:4> ' 

3479 
Item No. 1 
12/16/71 
AL CORRESPONDENCE 
ML" HCAI1D 
r 16, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred K. Rommel 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Ekar Mr. Rommel: 
I am writing in response to your request of December 14s 
1971, for the Board's views on enrolled bill H.R. 9961, "To provide 
Federal credit unions with two additional 
years to meet the require-
ments for insurance, and for other purposes." 
The Board has net had occasion to study this bill hereto-
fore, and it would take us more time to study the subject adequately. 
On the basis of the information now at our disposal, however, the 
Board has no reason to object to Presidential approval of the bill. 
• 
' (j'; 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
B O A R D G F 
G Q V E R N D R S 
«
\
&
V
*
<
O
F 
THE 
: m m ; 
F E D E R A L r e s e r v e S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
l i r a 
M i l : 
A D D R E S S orrici 
TO i 
Decembe 
f, 
Tytl^n Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

SB 
'if 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 20551 
3480 
Item No. 2 
i2/l6/71 
ADDRESS UrnCIAU COHRCSPDNDCNRE 
T O 
T H E 
D U A R D 
December 16, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred II. Rommel 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
ftear Mr. Rommel: 
I am writing in response to your request of December 14, 
1971, for the Board's views on enrolled bill S.J. Res, 176, KTc 
extend the authority of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment with respect to interest rates on insured mortgages, to extend 
and modify certain provisions of the National Flood Insurance Act 
1963, and for other purposes." 
The Board favors Presidential approval of the bill. 
Very t.ru]y yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3181 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
20551 
December 16, 1971 
12/16/71 
Item No. 3 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office Building 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
1 am writing in response to your request of 
December 15 for the Board's views and recommendations 
on the enrolled bill, S. 2891, to extend and amend the 
Economic Stabilization Act of 19 70, and for other pur-
poses . 
The Board recommends Presidential approval of 
the bill. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 

B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
12/16/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OrriCIAL CDRHESPDNUENCE 
Tn THE BOARD 
December 17, 1971 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
First Oklahoma Bancorporation, Inc. 
*-20 N. Robinson, P.O. Box 25189 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
73125 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has considered the application 
°f First Oklahoma Bancorporation, Inc., for prior approval pur-
suant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act to acquire 
Sufficient additional shares of Underwriters Life Insurance Com-
pany, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma ("Underwriters"), so as to own at 
least. 80 per cent of the outstanding shares. It appears from the 
application and supplemental information that First Oklahoma 
incorporation owns approximately 24 per cent of the outstanding 
shares of Underwriters, which it acquired pursuant to section 4(c) 
0-2) of the Act in January 1971. Underwriters is engaged in writ-
ing general life insurance, specifically, ordinary life insurance 
Policies, term life policies, and group life policies, which are 
sold through independent agents. 
No information is presented on the question whether such 
Activities are "so closely related to banking or managing or con-
trol].ing banks as to be a proper incident thereto", other than that 
a Present subsidiary is engaged in these activities. 
Such activi-
ties were, according to the application, commenced subsequent to 
the time that First Oklahoma Bancorporation terminated its status 
a s a registered bank holding company under the 1956 Act. 
Based on the application and on the Board's decision in 
tlie application of Transamerica Corporation to retain Occidental 
Insurance Company of California (1957 Bulletin 1014), the 
^°ard has determined that there is no reasonable basis for the 
contention that the activities of Underwriters are permissible 
Under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 

3483 
First Oklahoma Bancorporation, Inc. 
-2-
Xt is noted that the application states that First 
Oklahoma Bancorporation's present interest in Underwriters was 
acquired as an investment. In this regard, First Oklahoma 
Bancorporation may not at any time exercise control of, or a 
controlling influence over the management or policies of, Under 
writers; and it may not hold more than 5 per cent of the outstand-
ing voting shares of Underwriters subsequent to December 31, 1980. 
Further, the Board has asked its staff to consider the feasibility 
of requiring First Oklahoma Bancorporation to divest itself of its 
present stock ownership at an earlier time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3484 
I B S r 
BOARD D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F" T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 5 
12/16/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAL. C O R R C B P O N D C N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
Dec ember 16, 1971 
Mr 0 Martin W. Bergin, Executive Secretary, 
Retirement Plan for Employees of the 
Federal Reserve System, 
33 Liberty Street, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
The Board has approved the recommendation of the System 
Committee on Employee Benefits dated December 15, 1971 for a supplement 
to allowances of persons who have been retired under the Bank Plan, 
along with the text of the resolutions present in the December 8 report 
°f the Ad Hoc Committee to review the Adequacy of Retirement Allowances. 
Specifically, the Board has approved, subject to appropriate action by 
the Administrative Board of the Retirement Plan, the supplementation 
members retired prior to January 1, 1971 of pension benefits by 
4 per cent effective January 1, 1972 with the understanding that the 
4 per cent supplement will be applied to (a) members who retired because 
disability, (b) retired members who are at least 50 years of age on 
January 1, 1972, and (c) the survivor annuitants or beneficiaries of 
any member who would have been eligible had he livedo 
In taking this action, the Board noted that before the 
supplement can become effective, it will be necessary that the Retire-
ment Plan receive a determination from the Internal Revenue Service that 
the supplement is acceptable to that Service and will not unfavorably 
a£fect the qualified status of the Plan. 
The Board also noted without objection the proposal to 
^"corporate in the Retirement Plan the supplement provided in 1960 for 
retired members who had not qualified for a social security benefit. 
is understood that this benefit, which previously has been provided 
° n a pay-as-you-go basis as a current budget item of the Reserve Banks, 
will be funded at a cost of approximately $125,000 to be made available 
from surplus reserves now held by the Retirement System, and that this 
w i l l eliminate the annual payment being made by the Federal Reserve 
fianks, which totalled approximately $33,600 for the current year. 

, 3485 
'fffr. Martin W. Bergin 
-2-
ftp' 
Please advise the Board when the payment of the supplement 
'•'becomes effective. 
Very truly yours. 
/ Tynan Smith 
." I 
Secretary 

B • A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R H E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 6 
12/16/71 
December 23, 1971 
Mr. Martin W. Bergin, Executive Secretary 
Retirement Plan for Employees of the 
Federal Reserve System 
33 Liberty Street 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
In conjunction with the current proposal before the 
Administrative Board of the Retirement Plan to terminal fund the 
Au gust 1960 supplement paid to Bank Plan annuitants, the Board of 
Governors requests that the cost of funding the supplementary 
benefits being paid to Board Plan retirees and survivor annuitants 
under authorization from the Board dated November 26, 1962, be 
transferred from the excess reserves available in the Preserve 
Against Investments Account to the Board Plan Pension Accumulation 
Account. 
This funding should also include the payment of $25,158.79 
which was due July 1, but deferred pending the completion of the 
reorganization plan for the Retirement System. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
3 4 8 7 
. . . . 
• VO'ov Go*;/ •. 
• r T H E 
1 1 e m N o . 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/16/71 
WASHING TON, 
D. 
C. 205S1 
Si-//?: 
ADiniMB Of FiC.IAL com J»pi! KTlCflCC 
TD I . . ' ' • : D 
- 
' 
December 16, 1971 
Comptroller of the Currency 
Treasury Department 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
r 
Dear Mr. Cornptro1ler: 
This will acknowledge your letter of November 24, 1971., 
to Chairman B u m s transmitting a copy of a letter dated November 24, 
1971, to you from Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, San Francisco, 
California ('.:< 11:- Fargo), relating to the application of Nells Fargo 
to mer{'.<.: First Western Bank and Trust Company, Los Angeles, California 
(First Western). 
The Board has noted Wells Fargo's stated willingness to 
divest itself of all of the 41 Northern California branches of 
Fit3t Western within a period of 90 days from the date of consummation 
of the merger, as opposed to the two-year period stated in the appli-
cation, The Board also notes that, in connection with the above 
proposal, the bank submitted a confidential list of eight "Potential 
Buyers" with a request that each of the other Federal bank regulatory 
agencies and the Department of Justice submit to you their views on 
the acceptability of the various Potential Buyers. 
In fulfilling its statutory responsibilities in reporting 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger, the 
Board gave careful consideration to the matter of disposing of the 
41 Northern California branches in question. As you will recall, 
the Board's report to you regarding the competitive effects of the 
proposal took note of the intended divestiture as set forth in the 
Agreement and Plan for Merger, and commented on this aspect of the 
proposal in the discussion of competition br tw<*.en the two institutions. 
This analysis indicated that, despite the fact that the divestiture 

BOANO OF t': • v: K'NORS OF rHt lf.!T' .L RE! ' RVt SYSTEM 
t 3488 
t 
Compere1 K r of the Currency 
-2-
would eliminate approximately 25 offices of First Western that are 
competing with of.Li.ces ol We lis Fargo, there still would remain a 
substantial amount of both present and potential competition between 
the merger proponents. 
the Board concluded: 
"The competitive eJfect 
of the proposal is viewed as subst antially adverse." 
Please be assured that the proposed disposition of the subject 
brancii.es, •••• well as .^ ery other relevant facet of the competitive 
situation, was v.ei>hed care hilly in reachino ti ; > concl ision, As 
suggested by the discussion of compet.it ion and concentrati on in the 
body of the report, the two-year time period proposed for disposition 
of the 41 Northern California brandies was not a major determinant 
in arriving at the substantially adverse conclusion. Therefore, the 
shortening of the time period does not change the Board's findings 
that the merger would eliminate substantial existing arid potential 
competition between the merger proponents while increasing the already 
high degree of concentration of banking resources in California. 
Particularly in these circumstances, the Board f e d s it would 
be inappropriate to make a determination is to the "acceptability" o^" 
any of the Potential Buyers in this case. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
