MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 2, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 
Amendments to Regulation Z, Truth in 
Lending. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, November 2, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
The Board exchanged views on Board meeting procedures and 
considerations that might contribute to effective conduct of Board 
meetings. 
The following members of the staff entered the meeting at this 
point: 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 

3118 
11/2/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Banks of Iowa, Inc., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to acquire shares 
of First National Bank, Burlington, Iowa, and authorized the issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Commerce 
Bank of St. Louis, National Association, St. Louis, Missouri, a proposed 
new bank, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that deci-
sion. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Texas Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of Bank Plaza del 
Oro, N.A., Houston, Texas, a proposed new bank, and authorized the 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved amendments to Regulation Z, Truth 
in Lending, with respect to credit card liability, effective December 15, 
1972, and with respect to disclosures relating to open end credit accounts, 
effective June 1, 1973„ The Board also approved an interpretation detail-
ing the application of Regulation Z to open end credit plans with variable 
rate features. Copies of the amendments and interpretation are attached 
under Item No. 4, along with the related press release. 

3119 
11/2/72 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved (1) withdrawal of proposed 
amendments to securities credit Regulations G, T, and U that were to 
have become effective December 1, 1972, with respect to credit to 
provide capital for broker/dealer firms; (2) publication for comment 
of a proposed amendment to Regulation U that would terminate a related 
interim provision; and (3) a letter informing the Securities and Exchange 
Commission of the Board's action prior to public announcement. A copy 
of the letter sent to the SEC is attached as Item No. 5. Copies of the 
press release subsequently issued and of the Federal Register notice 
are attached under Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved an interpretation concerning the 
recently adopted block positioner exemption from margin requirements 
in Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or 
Carrying Margin Stocks. A copy of the interpretation is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation, Washington, D. C., reflecting an affirmative 
ruling with respect to the eligibility for various purposes of certain 
proposed obligations containing an unconditional guarantee by Overseas 
Private Investment Corporation as to timely payment of principal and 
interest. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 8. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 

3120 
11/2/72 
-4-
Atlantic Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum dated October 26, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended denial of the application of Atlantic Bancorpora-
tion, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Bank of New Smyrna, 
New Smyrna Beach, Florida. 
The Board unanimously denied the application, with the under-
standing that an order reflecting that decision would be prepared for 
the Board's consideration. 
CBT Corporation. In a memorandum dated October 27, 1972, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial, while the 
Banking Markets Section recommended approval, of the application of 
CBT Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut, to acquire shares of the succes-
sor by merger to Fairfield County National Bank, Norwalk, Connecticut. 
Varying recommendations had also been received from several officials 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
Following discussion, action on the application was deferred 
until more Board members could be present. In addition, staff was asked 
to explore questions that were raised today. 
Marshall & Ilsley Corporation. In a memorandum dated October 18, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of Marshall & Ilsley 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of American Bank 
and Trust Company, Racine, Wisconsin. 

31Z1 
11/2/72 
-5-
The Board approved the application, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting. It was understood that an order reflecting that 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration and that a 
dissenting statement would also be prepared. 
First American National Bank of Nashville. In a memorandum 
dated October 17, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
recommended approval of the application of First American National Bank 
of Nashville, Nashville, Tennessee, to establish a branch in Georgetown, 
Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. 
The Board approved the application, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 9. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3122 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o > 
± 
11/2/72 
BANKS OF IOWA, INC, 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Banks of Iowa, Inc., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of First National 
Bank, Burlington, Iowa ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the appli-
cation in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls four banks with deposits of approximately 
$345 million, representing 4.7 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deposits in the State, and is the second largest banking organization 
and bank holding company in Iowa. (All banking data are as of December 31, 
!971, adjusted to reflect bank holding company formations and acqusitions 
approved by the Board through September 30, 1972.) Applicant's acquisi-
tion of Bank ($34.5 million in deposits) would increase Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State by one-half of one percentage point, 
without changing its ranking in the State. 
Bank is the largest of seven banking organizations serving the 
Burlington banking market with 30.7 per cent of total commercial bank 

•2-
3123 
deposits therein. Inasmuch as this proposal represents Applicant's initial 
entry into the market, no existing competition would be eliminated. 
Furthermore, the development of any meaningful competition between any of 
Applicant's existing subsidiaries and Bank appears unlikely in light of 
the distances involved (Applicant's closest subsidiary is about 73 miles 
west of Bank), the large number of banks in the intervening area, and the 
State's restrictive branching law. 
Although Applicant proposes to acquire the largest bank in the 
market, it appears unlikely that Applicant would acquire one of the 
smaller banks in the Burlington banking market. Three of the competing 
banks are located in West Burlington and cannot branch into Burlington 
proper, and thus are not attractive for acquisition. The other three 
banks in the market do not appear to be available for acquisition because 
of existing relationships with other banking groups. Applicant possesses 
the resources for meaningful de novo entry into the market; however, the 
city of Burlington, which has experienced no population growth since i960, 
is not a major Iowa financial center, and the area's economy has been 
characterized by fluctuations in employment levels in the past. On the 
basis of the facts of record, the Board concludes that consummation of 
Applicant's proposal may have a slightly adverse effect on potential com-
petition, but would not eliminate significant existing competition and, 
therefore, competitive considerations are consistent with approval of the 
application. 
Affiliation with Applicant would increase Bank's lending capa-
bilities through participations with Applicant's subsidiaries and special 

3124 
•3-
emphasis would be given to expansion of Bank's activities in trust adminis-
tration, investment counseling, bond financing, and international banking. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served lend some weight toward approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial resources 
and prospects as they relate to Applicant and its subsidiaries are regarded 
as satisfactory. The same conclusions apply generally with respect to 
Bank, except that Bank has not provided for adequate successor management. 
Applicant's capabilities for finding competent and experienced officers 
for Bank as needed lend some weight in favor of approval. It is the 
Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in 
the public interest end that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,effective November 2, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Cynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
and Daane. 

3125 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
11/2/72 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Commerce Bank of St. Louis, National Association, .St. Louis, Missouri 
("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C, 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest bank holding company and bank-
ing organization in Missouri, has twenty-one subsidiary banks which 
control $985.9 million in deposits, representing 7.8 per cent of 
total deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
(All banking data 
are for December 31, 1971, unless otherwise noted.) 
Bank, which Applicant states would not be opened for business 
were the application to be denied, would be located in downtown St. 
Louis. Commerce Bancshares has four subsidiary banks within the 
relevant market which is considered to include St. Louis City, 
St. Louis County, and portions of Jefferson and St. Charles 

3126 
- 2 -
Counties. These present subsidiary banks are all located in the suburban 
areas of St, Louis and are not significant factors iu che markcL. To-
gether they control less than 2 per cent of market deposits. As bank 
is a proposed new bank consummation of the proposal would eliminate no 
existing competition, but rather would increase competition for corporate 
accounts in Bank's proposed service area, downtown St. Louis. While 
population in the proposed service area has been declining, there is 
still a higher ratio of population to banking offices than" in the subur-
ban areas, and it appears that the area can support an additional bank-
ing alternative. Since 1967 the downtown banks have shown good deposit 
growth, and net income per share and net operating income per share for 
the four largest banks in St. Louis have! increased an average of 22.8 
Per cent and 16.0 per cent respectively, The Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposal would not eliminate existing or potential com-
petition, nor would it have adverse effects on any competing bank. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of Applicant and Bank are satisfactory 
and consistent with approval of the application. While Applicant pro-
Poses to orient Bank toward the provision of wholesale banking services, 
there is no evidence on the record that any significant banking needs 
a r e going unserved in the proposed service area. Applicant will, 
however, provide an alternative source of banking services. Con-
siderations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served are consistent with approval of the application. 

3127 
-3-
A contention has been raised that the acquisition of Bank by 
Applicant would be in violation of the branch banking restrictions of 
the State of Missouri. As the Board stated in connection with its 
approval of the recent application of Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., to 
acquire a proposed new bank in St. Louis County, "a State's restrictive branch 
banking laws do not, in light of the legislative history of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, prohibit the formation or expansion of 
a bank holding company in that State" (1972 Bulletin 923). 
In addition, a protesting bank has petitioned that the 
System conduct a survey to determine whether there is a need for an 
additional wholesale bank in St. Louis. The bank further petitioned 
the Board to conduct either a formal or informal hearing on the ap-
plication pursuant to the Board's Rules of Procedure, section 262 
(3)(f)(2, 3). In view of the fact that the Comptroller of the 
Currency recommended approval of the application, no hearing is 
required by the Act. (It might be noted that the Comptroller held a 
hearing prior to granting the charter for Bank and the protesting 
party appeared at that proceeding.) Further, it does not appear to 
the Board that there are any issues concerning the application on 
which a formal hearing or oral presentation would be useful. The 
Petition is hereby denied with respect to the above requests. A 
request that the application be acted on by the Board rather than 
the Reserve Bank under delegated authority (12 CFR 265.2(f)(24)) 
was granted. 

3 1 * 2 8 
•4-
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would 
be in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order; and (c) Commerce Bank of St. Louis, National Association, 
St. Louis, Missouri, shall be opened for business not later than six 
months after the effective date of this Order. Each of the periods 
described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 3, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent 
and Daane. 
Burns and Governors Robertson, 
and not voting: Governors Mitchell 

3129 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYTEM 
Item No„ 3 
11/2/72 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of Bank Plaza del Oro, N«A., Houston, Texas ("Bank"), 
a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
person to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls six banks located in the Houston and Beaumont, 
Texas, areas with aggregate deposits of $1.4 billion, representing 4.7 
1/ 
Per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
Applicant, 
the fourth largest banking organization in Texas, is the second largest 
banking organization in the Houston banking market with four subsidiary 
hanks controlling approximately 17.9 per cent of deposits of commercial 
banks. l n addition, Applicant holds, through a subsidiary, between 20 
and 24 per cent of each of three other banks located in the Houston area. 
1/ On August 31, 1972, the Board approved Applicant's application to 
acquire American National Bank of Beaumont, Beaumont, Texas. As a con-
dition to Board approval of that application, Applicant is required to 
divest its interest in Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, Texas, within two 
years of its acquisition of American National Bank. 

3130 
-2-
These three banks hold aggregate deposits of $77.2 million representing 
1.1 per cent of the total deposits of commercial banks in the Houston 
area. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect holding 
2/ 
company formations and acquisitions approved through September 30, 1972.) 
Acquisition of Bank, a proposed new bank, will not affect Applicant's 
ranking among banking organizations in the State. 
Bank is to be located in a new residential-commercial complex 
being developed in the southern portion of the city of Houston approximately 
five miles from that city's central business district in which Applicant's 
lead Bank is located. Applicant's other subsidiary banks in the Houston 
market are all located to the north of the central business district. 
An affiliate of Applicant, Chemical Bank and Trust Company ($31 million 
of deposits) is located approximately four miles from Bank's proposed 
location. 
There are presently two unaffiliated banks located in Bank's 
proposed service area and three other unaffiliated banks located adjacent 
to that service area. As the development of the southern portion of the 
city of Houston continues, it can be expected that a number of additional 
banks will seek to locate in this area. Prospects for opening other banks 
throughout the rapidly growing Houston area (including the area in which 
y 
In addition to the present application, Applicant has filed applications 
0 r
Q
a p p r o v a l t o acquire two other proposed new banks in the Houston area, 
ca 
C t ° b e r 6> 1972, the Board announced the approval of Applicant's appli-
es i!?n t o acquire San Angelo National Bank of San Angelo, San Angelo, Texas 
W /{) million of deposits) . 
B a n l
p p l i c a n t presently owns 20.9 per cent of the voting shares of Chemical 
o f
n C a n d h a s stated its intention to file application to acquire control 
this bank in the near future. 

3131 
•3-
Bank is proposed to be located) appear favorable and approval of this 
proposal would not serve to foreclose the opportunity for entry by other 
banking organizations into these areas. Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
should serve neither to eliminate existing or future competition nor 
have any adverse effect on the concentration of bank resources in 
the Houston area. On the contrary, the proposal herein, by adding an 
additional banking alternative, may serve to promote competition among 
those banks now located in or near Bank's proposed service area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactory and prospects for the 
group appear favorable. Bank has no financial or operating history. 
However, as a subsidiary of Applicant, Bank's prospects appear favorable. 
Banking factors are consistent with approval of the application. The 
development in which Bank is proposed to be opened is located on a site 
of more than 500 acres on which are to be constructed numerous office 
and apartment buildings, shopping centers and professional facilities. 
As these projects are completed, the need for additional banking services 
w*ll grow. To the extent Bank will be able to provide an additional 
alternative source of these services for persons using these facilities, 
considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
a r e consistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest 
that the application should be approved. 

3132 
-4-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order; and (c) Bank Plaza del Oro, N.A., Houston, Texas, shall be 
opened for business not later than six months after the date of this 
Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 2, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
rimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
and Daane. 

3133 
Item No. 4 
11/2/72 
For immediate release 
November 6, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced the adoption of amendments to its Truth in Lending Regulation 7, 
dealing with credit card liability and disclosures relating to open 
end credit accounts. 
One amendment clarifies that al1 credit cards—whether they 
are to be used for personal, family* household, agricultural, business 
o r c°n«nerclal purposes—are covered by the maximum liability limit of 
J -r°r unauthorised use, and may be issued only upon the request of 
* Prospective cardholder. This amendment is effective December 15, 1972. 
Other amendments, effective June 1, 1973, will: 
1. Require the disclosure of a nominal annual percentage 
rate on billing statements in open end credit accounts even where no 
ance charges are imposed during the billing cycle. Many creditors 
are already making this disclosure. 
2. Require disclosure of minimum finance charges on billing 
statements. 
3. Incorporate into the Regulation tvo earlier interpretations 
dealing with computation of the annual percentage rate and disclosure 
°x t h e balance on which it is computed. 
These amendments are basically the same as the proposals 
announced by the Board on June 26 and August 4. Technical adjustments 
311 1-ac language were made in the light of public comment received since 
th«t tiaie. 

3134 
- 2 -
An effective date of June 1, 1973, for the disclosure amend-
ments will allow time for those lenders and businesses which are 
afiected by the amendments to reprint disclosure statements and change 
their computer programming, if necessary, to take account of the 
changes in the Regulation. 
At the same time, the Board issued an interpretation 
detailing the application of the Regulation to open end credit plans 
with variable rate features. Copies of the amendments and interpretation 
ate attached. 

3135 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LEHDING 
Open End Credit: 
Credit Cards—Issuance end Liability 
1. Effective June 1, 1973, § § 226.5(a)(3), 226.7(a)(4), 
226.7(b)(5) and (6) and 226.7(c) of Regulation Z are amended to read 
aa set forth below, and £ 226.702 and § 226.704 are revoked; and 
2. Effective December 15, 1972, S§ 226.13(a) (4)^13(10 and 
13(c) are amended to read ac set; forth below: 
$ 226.5—DETERMINATION OF AtTNUAL PERCENTAGE RATE 
(a) General Rule - open p.nd credit accounts *** 
(3) Where the finance charge imposed during the billing cycle 
or includes 
(i.) any minimum, fixed, or other charge not due to the appli-
cation of a periodic rate, other than a charge with respect to any 
specific transaction during the billing cycle, by dividing the total 
finance charge fcr the billing cycle by the. amount of the balance(s) to 
which applicable and multiplying the quotient (expressed as a percentage) 
ky the nurcber of billing cycles in a year; or 

3X36 
(ii) any charge with respect to any specific -CraflSSCfc&on 
during the billing cycle (even if the total finance charge also includes-
any other minimum, fixad, or other cl large not due to the application of 
a periodic rate), by dividing-the total finance charge-imposed daring- the • 
killing cycle by the total of all balance end other- amounts on which 
any finance charge was imposed during the billing cycle without dupli-
cation ar;d multiplying the quotient (expressed as a percentage) by 
the number of billing cycles in o y e a r s ^ except that tho annual pcr-
rentage rata shall not be less than the largest rate determined by 
multiplying each periodic rate imposed during the billing cycle by the 
^ b e r of periods in a year: or 
(iii) any minimum, fixed, c.r other charge not due to tho cppl-*1 
cation of a periodic rate and the total finance charge imposed during the 
killing cycle does not exceed 50 cents for a monthly or longer, billing*-cyzUt 
the pro rata part of 50 cents for a billing cycle shorter thrji monthly*. at 
t he creditor's option, by multiplying each applicable periodic rat« by 
L h o number of periods in a year, notwithstanding the provisions of: sub-
divisions <*•) and (ii) of this subparagraph, 
^ ' ^ i - . - M t u m 
r ^ . -, _ - i n >1.1-I hit — 
S 
iSy 
In determining the denominator of the fraction under 8 226.5(a)(3)(it/ 
!!? 
will be used more than once when adding the sum of the balances 
? 
Periodic rates apply to the sum of the amounts financed to which 
®Peci£ic transaction charges apply. In every case the full amount of 
,^"actions to which specific transaction charges apply shall be included 
t n e denominator. Other balances cr parts of balances ohall be included 
^ccca'ding to the manner of determining the balance to which a periodic 
i{> applied. as illustrated in the following examples of accounts on 
billing cycles: 
Ki'-y f T. r> * 
* — F o o t n o t e 5a continued on. page 3. 

3137 
•3-
1. Previous balance-"none 
A specific transaction of $100 occurs on first day of the billing 
cycle. The average daily balance is $100. A specific transaction charge 
of 3% is applicable to the specific transactions. The periodic rate is 
1-1/2% applicable to the average daily balance. The numerator is the 
amount of the finance charge, which is $4.50. The denominator is the 
amount of the transaction (which is $100), plus the amount by which the^ 
balar.ee to which the periodic rate applies exceeds the amount of specific 
transactions (such excess in this case is 0), totaling $100. 
The annual percentage rate is the quotient (which is 4.57,) multiplied 
by 12 (the number of months in a year), 
54%. 
Previous ba?.ance--$100 
A specific transaction of $100 occurs at midpoint of the billing cycle, 
The average, daily balance is $150. A specific transaction charge of 21 
applicable to' the specific transaction. The periodic rate is 
1-1/2% 
eypliccblc to the average daily balance. The numerator is the amount of 
finance charge which is $5.25. The denominator is the amount of the 
transaction (which is $100), plus the amount by which the balance to 
which the periodic rate applies exceeds the amounts of specific trans-
actions (such excess in this case it: $50), totaling $150. 
As explained in example 1, the annual percentage rate is 3.5% x 12 
K 42%. 
If, in example 2, the periodic rate applies only to the previous 
balance, the numerator Ls $4.50 and the denominator is $200 (the amount 
o f the transaction, $100, plus the balance to which only the periodic 
>-ate is applicable, the $100 previous balance). As explained in example. 
l> 
annual percentage rate ic 2.25% x 12 12 27%. 
If» in example 2, the periodic rate applies only to an adjusted bal-
ance (previous balance less payments and credits) and the customer made 
a Payment of $50 at midpoint of billing cycle, the numerator is $3.75 
t
an<i the denominator is $150 (the amount of the transaction, $100, plus the 
balance to which only the periodic rate is applicable, the $50 adjusted 
balance). As explained in example 1, the annual percentage rate is 
2.5% K 12 « 30%. 
Previous balance—$100 
A specific transaction (check) of $100 occurs at the midpoint of the 
billing cycle. The average daily balance is $150. The specific trans-
action charge is 25 cents per check, The periodic rate is 1-1/2% applied 
t
i° the average daily balance. The numerator is the amount of the finance 
chargec which is $2.50 and includes the 25 cents check charge and the^ 
$2.25 resulting from the application of the periodic rate. The denominator 
is the full amount of the specific transaction (which is $1.00) plus the 
amount by which the average"daily balance exceeds the amount of the speci-
transaction (which in this case is $50), totaling $150. As-explained 
i u OX ample )., the. annual percental rate would be 1-2/3% x 12 = 20%. 

3138 
-4-
§ 226.7—OPEN END CREDIT ACCOUNTS—SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
(a) Opening new account, 
(4) Where one or more periodic rates may be used to compute 
the finance charge, each ouch rate, the range of balances to which it is 
applicable, and the corresponding annual percentage rate determined by 
multiplying the periodic rate by the number of periods in a year.ls/ 
A 
v* 
'k 
i; 
0 0 
Periodic a totements required. *** 
(5) Each periodic rate, using the term "periodic rate" (or 
rates"), that may ho used to compute the finance charge (whether or not 
applied during the billing cycle), the range of balances to which it is 
aPpHcable, and the corresponding annual percentage rate determined by 
tfUJ. tip lying the periodic rate by the number of periods in a year. The 
words "corresponding annual percentage rate" "corresponding nominal 
annual percentage rate," "nominal annual percentage rate" or "annual 
J' creditor imposing minimum charges is not required to adjust the 
flp^l-"Ure 
t h e range of balances to which each periodic rate would 
r a ? i n 
0irder to reflect the range of the balances below which the 
uh* 
° i l U r 8 e applies. If a creditor does not impose a finance charge 
^ e n the outstanding balance is less than a certain amount, the creditor 
f UCi 1 required to disclose that fact or the balance below which no such 
charge will be imposed. 

3139 
•5-
perccntoge rate" (or "rates") may be used to describe the corresponding 
annual parcentage rate. The requirements of 8 226.6(a) of this Part 
with respect to disclosing the term "annual percentage rate" more 
conspicuously than other required terminology shall not be applicable 
to the disclosure made under this subparagraph, although such terra 
(or words incorporating such term) may, at the creditor's option, be 
shown as conspicuously as the terminology required under subparagraph 6 
or thir. paragraph. Where a minimum charge may be applicable to the 
, 0 ; i / 
account, the amount of such minimum charge shall be disclosed.-" 
(6) When a finance charge is imposed during the billing cycle, 
the annual percentage rate or rates determined under § 226.5(a) using 
the term "annual perccnfcse rate" (or "rates"). 
If 
.jr. 
if 
* 
(c) Location of disclosures. The disclosures required; by 
Paragraph (b) of this section shall be made on the face of the periodic 
statement, except that, at the creditor's option: 
(1) Itemization of the amount and date of each extension of 
credit (or the date such extension, of credit was debited to the account) r< 
quired to be disclosed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section end iteraisati 
i r r r ^ ^ ^ o T l ^ F o T ^ minimum charges is not required to adjust fch* 
disclosure of the range of balances to which each periodic rate wouici 
apply in order to reflect the range of the balances below which the 
minimum charge applies. If a creditor does not impose a finance 
charge when the outstanding balance is less than a certain amount, the 
creditor is not required to disclose that fact or the balance below 
which no such charge will be imposed. 

3140 
Of the amount of the "credits5' diocloccd under paragraph (b)(3) of this 
section, and of the amount of any finance charge required to be disclosed 
under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, may be mode on the reverse side 
of the periodic statement or on a separate accompanying statement(s), 
provided that the totals of such respective amounts arc disclosed on 
the face of the periodic statement; and 
(2) The disclosures required under paragraph (b)(5) and 
(b)(8) of this section, except the balance on which the finance charge 
wos computed, may be made on the reverse side of the periodic statement 
or on the face of a single supplemental statement which shall accompany 
the periodic statement. 
(3) If the creditor exerciser any of the option* provided 
under this paragraph, the face of the periodic statement shall contain 
one of the following notices, as applicable: "NOTICE: See reverse,side 
for important information" or "NOTICE: See accompanying statements) 
for important information" or "NOTICE: See reverse side and accompanying 
statement(s) for important information," and the disclosures shall not 
be separated so as to confuse or mislead the customer or obscure or 
detract attention from the information required to be disclosed. 
5 226.13 — CREDIT CARDS—ISSUANCE AND LIABILITY 
(a) 
S
u
p
—
—
*
*
* 

3141 
•7-
(4) "Cardholder" means any person to whom a credit card is 
issued for personal, family, household, agricultural, business, or 
commercial purposes, or any person who has agreed with the card Issuer 
obligations arising from the issuance of a credit card to another 
I-eraon for such purposes. 
'A' 
V* 
* 
* 
(b) Issuance of credit cards. Regardless of whether a credit 
c~rd in to be used for personal, family, household, agricultural, business 
commercial purposes, no credit card shall be issued to any person except: 
(1) In response to a request or application therefor, or 
(2) As a renewal of, or in substitution for, an accepted credit 
card whether tuch card is issued by the same or a successor card issuer. 
(c) Conditions of liability of cardholder. A cardholder shall 
T „ 
e -Uable for unauthorized use of each credit card issued only if, *** 
S 226.702 [Revoked.] 
§ 226.704 [Revoked.] 
"k 
• 
V 
'V 
3. These amendments are promulgated pursuant to § 105 of the 
Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. § 1604). Notice of proposed rule making 
^as published on July 6, 1972, (37 Fed. Reg, 13270) and August 12, 1972, 
(37 
Fed. Reg. 16407). After consideration of all relevant matter submitted 
hy interested parties, technical changes were made to $ § 226.5(a)(3)(H), 
^26.5(a)(3)(iii), 226.7(c)(1), 226,13(a)(4), 226.13(b) and 226.13(c). 
footnote 6a was added to § 226.7(a)(4). 
4. The amendment to s 226.5(a)(3) relocates the formula for 
ccf&puting ^nrudl percentage rater, in the case of finance charges imposed 
vith respect to specific transactions during the billing cycle--for example, 

3142 
•8-
on©-time fees on cash advancss — t o the sStioh dealing with annual 
Percentage rate computation. The formula was previously contained in. 
& 226.7(b)(6) and Board interpretation g 226.704. The interpretation 
is hereby revoked as of the effective date of the amendment. This 
amendment: also clarifies the fact that the Regulation does not require 
computation of the annuel percentage rate by the quotient method when 
total finance charge, including charges with respect to specific 
transections, does not exceed 50jt. 
!>, The amendment adds a requirement to 5 226.7(b)(5) that the 
c°rreoponding annual percentage rate for each periodic rate applicable 
t:o t:he account be shown on each periodic statement, whether or not a 
finance charge is imposed during the billing cycle. Many creditors have 
Previously made this disclosure, which was permissible, although not 
rsquired, under Regulation Z, A variety of specified wording may be 
used to describe these rates. The permitted use of optional wording is 
t:o allow creditors maximum freedom to choose wording to distinguish 
between rates which were actually applied during the billing cycle 
(required to be disclosed under 8 226.7(b)(6)) and the prospective 
nominaI rates required to be disclosed by this subparagraph, where 
those rates differ. The optional wording will also minimise the need 
reprinting periodic, statements where nominal rate disclosures have 
Previously been made by the creditor. Whatever wording is chosen may, 
though need not be, used to satisfy the terminology requirements for 
the initial disclosures under 1 226.7(a)(4) and advertising under 
8 /.26.10(c) (4). Although the "more conspicuous" requirement of § 226.6(a) 
the U v . c n "annual percental rate" will not be applicable to disclosures 
u^dcr & 226.7 (b) (!>), it will continue to apply to the term "annual 

3143 
•9" 
Porcentage rate" in opening disclosures under § 226.7(a) and in 
advertising under § 226.10(c), even if the creditor chooses to make 
dip d o (Hires und-r 8 226.7(a)(4) and 3 226.10(c)(4) using optional 
hording which simply incorporates this tcrm—e^., "corresponding 
ANNUAL PERCENTAGE RATE." 
Many open end creditors will not be affected by the amendment. 
In 
open end credit plans, the annual percentage rate under 
8 226.7(b)(6) and the. prospective nominal rate under § 226.7(b)(5) 
always bo identical. This situation will occur-when a creditor 
finance charges simply by the application of one or more 
Periodic rates mid does not use the "quotient" method of calculating 
annual percftnt^c rate under § 226.5(c) (1) (ii). In such case*, 
! 
thti *^uirea>ents of both § 226.7(b)(5) and § 226,7(b)(6) could be 
%,<tisfied by a single disclosure of such rates on the face of all 
^ling statements using the term, which could be preprinted, "ANNUAL 
P-UCF-ITA0E KATE" or "RATES." 
The new provision also will require disclosure of minimum 
which may be imposed on accounts with balances below a certain 
r'10uut. This new disclosure requirement does not compel creditors to 
close the range of; balances to which the minimum charge may be. 
Pplictiblc; creditors may continue to disclose ranges of balances to 
V ;Hch periodic rates apply under § 226.7Ca)(4) and § 226.7(b)(5) 
"J.tUout jgpcci lie ally designating the portion of. any such range to which 

3144 
•10-
the minimum charge, instead of the periodic rate, is applicable. For 
example, disclosure could be made that "a periodic rate of 1-1/2% per 
month which is an ANHUAL PERCENTAGE RATE of 18% will be applied to 
balances from $0 to $300, with a minimum charge of 50/.." 
6. The amendment to 8 226.7(b)(6) consists of the add* tioti 
the opening phrase 'Vben a finance charge is imposed during the 
billing cycle.1' In addition, the words "and, vhere there is more than 
rate, the. amount of the balance to which each rate is applicable" 
have been deleted since the applicable requirement is already contained 
in § 226.7(b)(5) which requires disclosure of the range of balances to 
whith each rate is applicable. Tlie amendment is primarily designed to 
the fact that the annual percentage rate disclosures under this 
Paragraph (as determined by I 226.5(a)) arc only required when finance 
largos a r e imposed during the billing cycle. Material relating to 
c°oputation of the annual percentage rate where transaction charges are 
imposed during the billing cycle has been removed from the provision 
incorporated into the new 0 226.5(a)(3)(ii). 
7. The amendment of § 226.7(c), which deals with the 
^cation of required disclosures on periodic statements, will simplify 
Placement of tlie disclosures in a way which is expected to be snore 
meaningful and useful to the customer and minimize confusion. The 
amendment incorporates B o a r d interpretation S 226.702, which U hereby 
* evoked as cf the effective date of the amendment. 

3115 
•11-
8. The purpose of the amendments to § § 226.13(a), 226.13(b; 
^ 
226.13(c) is to make clear that each credit card, regardless of whether 
issued or used for personal, family, household, agricultural, business or 
ccmuierclal purposes, and regardless of whether issued to a natural person, 
corporation or other business entity, is covered by the Act's maximum 
lability limit on unauthorized use and, by the same token, may not be 
distributed without an initial request. The amendment to § 226.13(c) Is 
to make it cUar that the maximum liability lisait applies to each 
Card issued to a cardholder; for example, a corporation with many 
carda fro* the same issuer would have a maximum liability limit for each 
A technical change has been made in the language of § 5 226.13(a)(-0 
^ 
2?.6.13fb) published for comment. In view of the f, 226.2(r) 'definition 
"person,which includes both natural persons and organizations, 
5 5 226.13(OW and 22.6.13(b) were changed to refer to "person" lnsteaa 
"natural person or organisation." No substantive change was intended, 
amendmentr. to § 226.13 would not affect the application of the business, 
exemption in § 226.3 to the disclosure, rescission, and advertising require 
of Regulation Z for which it was intended. 
9. Although the amendments to 5 § 226.5(a), 226.7(a), 226.7(b) 
226.7(c) shall not becomc effective until June 1, 1973, any creditor 
®cy comply with the amended provisions prior to the effective date. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 2, 1.972. 
(sif-neu) Michael A. Greenspan 
" 
MiehaeT~A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

314S 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A-"BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226—TRUTH IN LENDING 
O g c n j M J ^ 
S 2 26,707- - Disc 1. o a ur e sj^^^ 
(a) Under the terms of some open end credit plans the periodic 
rates of finance charges and corresponding annual percentage rates 
ore tied to a fluctuating base rate, for example, the "prune race. 
Consequently, both the periodic rates and annual percentage rates 
"•ay change from tine to time with changes in the bane rate. Tne 
question arises as to the proper disclosure, if any, which should be 
made under B 226.7(a)(4), B 226.7(b)(5), 8 27.6.7(b)(6), 8 226.7(e) 
end. 8 226.10(c)(4) in connection with such plans. 
( b ) Where any creditor's open end credit plan provides that 
the account is subject to variations in any periodic rate of finance 
charge, the creditor need not comply with 3 226.7(e) with respect to 
any prospective, change in any periodic rate or corresponding annual 
Percentage rate applicable to the account, Erovidcd that in connection 
with the disclosures made pursuant to paragraph 226.7(a)(4) the 
creditor has disclosed that such rates are subject to change, the 

3147 
conditions under which such rates may he changed, and, if applicable, 
the maximum and minimum limits of such rates. The requirements of 
§ 226.7(b)(5) and § 226.10(c) ('0 raay be complied with by similarly 
disclosing the method of computing the periodic or annual percentage 
rates which are subject to variation. In disclosing an annual percen-
tage rate or rates under 0 226.7(b)(6) where there have been variations 
during the billing cycle, the computations as specified in 
g 226.5(a)(1) ( t l ) > g 226.5(a) (2) , 3 226.5 (a) (3) (i) or S 226.5 (a) (3) (ii> , 
applicable, should be used. 
(interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. fi 163/) 
% order o£ the Board of Governors, November 2 > -
(c;ir>ned) llichcel A. Greenspan 
- 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary to the Board 
(SEAL) 

•A. ' 
^ [ j 
I I r* 
llll \'<p/£ ' 
iy MM ;/. *».* 
31.48 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/2/72 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
November 2, 1972 
T h e Honorable William J. Casey, Chairman 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
500 North Capitol Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20549 
Dear Bill: 
Because of the progress which the self-regulatory bodies have been 
waiting, with the Commission's encouragement, toward adopting rules 
that will "lock-in" the capital of brokers and dealers for at least 
a minimum period, the Board has decided to withdraw its own proposed 
rules in this area. I am writing to let you know in advance of the 
Public announcement our reasons for taking this action. 
Y°u may recall that on April 16, 1971, the Board proposed to adopt 
rules which would have effectively prevented banks from supplying 
funds for capital contributions to broker/dealer firms unless the 
contributions were subject to applicable rules of the Commission and 
stock exchanges and would not be withdrawable until a minimum 
Period of time had passed. These proposals, which had been worked: 
cut iu consultation with staff of your Division of Trading and Markets 
**ere revised on July 9, 1971, but were not substantially changed. 
reason for proposing the amendments at that time was that it 
uad come to the Board's attention that a substantial amount of 
broker/dealer capital was being supplied out of the proceeds of 
l°£ns by banks to third parties, usually partners or officers in 
tllG firms. It seemed possible that if the capital position of such 
® firm began to deteriorate, the lending bank would feel itself to 
b G insecure and would call the loan. If the borrower had to with-
draw his capital from the firm in order to repay the loan, the firm 
mi2ht have to sell securities into the market at an unfavorable 
foment in order to finance the withdrawal. If this occured simul-
taneously at a number of firms, the impact on the market could be 
®°st undesirable. The Board concluded that this possibility brought 
the matter within its area of responsibility for preventing the 
&-cessive use of credit" to purchase or carry securities under 
SGetion 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In effect, the 

3149 
The Honorable William J. Casey 
-2-
Board's action put the industry on notice that in the future capital 
financed with loans of this kind would have to be subject not only 
to all applicable rules of the Commission and self-regulatory 
bodies, but also to restrictions on withdrawal. 
At the same time, the Board recognized that it would be preferable 
t ot rules affecting capital requirements of brokers and dealers to 
be adopted by those bodies which have primary regulatory responsi-
bility as well as greater expertise. For this reason, the Board 
Postponed the implementation of its rules from time to time, while 
its staff was in regular contact with staffs of the Commission and 
the self-regulatory bodies concerning the steps they were taking to 
r-strier capital withdrawals under circumstances where forced sales 
securities might take place. 
It now appears that the progress which has been made in this direction 
wakes it appropriate for the Board to withdraw the proposed amendments, 
kven if the amendments are not: adopted, of course, banks will continue 
be able to make unsecured loans to finance capital contributions to 
broker/dealer firms" just as they may at present. Also, it will con-
tinue to be possible to make unregulated loans to individual firms in 
special circumstances if the Board concludes, upon certification by 
tb-e Securities Investor Protection Corporation, that such loans are 
appropriate. 
<vt the same time that it withdraws the proposed amendments, the Board 
vn~ll announce its intention to terminate the interim provision it has 
Seated allowing credit to be extended without regard to margin require-
ments to supply capital for broker/dealer firms if the loan meets cer» 
tain other conditions, including those which would be contained in the 
Proposed amendments. Credit extended under the interim provision prior 
the effective date of its termination and maintained continuously 
thereafter will not, of course, have to meet margin requirements. A 
CoPy of the Board's press release is enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 

Item No. 6 
Willi! 
F o r immediate release 
November 3, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
withdrew proposed amendments to its Regulations G, T and U -- to have 
£one into effect December 1 — setting forth the conditions under which 
credit may be obtained for the purpose of providing capital to broker-
dealer iirinCj without regard to initial margin requirements. 
At the same time, the Board published for comment through 
November 20 a proposal to amend its Regulation U by terminating an 
nipt ion from initial margin requirements for credit extended by 
k^nks for the purpose of providing capital to broker-dealer firms. 
The board took these actions because the proposed changes 
i 
XTt l"he Federal Reserve regulations were made unecessary by revisions 
which had been adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the 
Sel£-regular.ing national stock exchanges and the National Association 
Securities Dealers affecting provision of capital to brokers and 
dealers. 
Regulation U applies margin requirements to credit extended 
ky banks for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks; 
relation T applies to such credit when extended by brokers or 
balers, while Regulation G applies to credit for purchasing or 
carrying margin stocks when extended by lenders other than banks, 
rohers or dealers. 
A 
of the r.javdV, crder is attached. 

3151 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR PARTS 207, 220 and 221] 
[Regs. G, T and U] 
SECURITIES CREDIT TRANSACTIONS 
Withdrava1 of Proposed Amendments, and 
Proposed Termination of Related Prjovj^ 
a ion Regardinp. Credit to Provide Capital 
to Brokers and Dealers. 
On April 
16, 1971, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System isouad, and on July 9, 1971, it revised, proposed 
amendments to its Regulation G, "Securities Credit by Persons other 
Banks, Brokers, or Dealers"; T, "Credit by Brokers and Dealers"; 
«nd '(J} "credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
Mf!rFiin Stocka" setting forth conditions under which credit may be 
obtained without regard to initial margin requirements for the pur:-
Pose of providing capital to broker/dealer firms. The initial pro-
posals were published in the Federal Register on April 24, 1971 (26 
Federal Register 7754) and the revised proposals were published in 
tllG Federal Register on July 16, 1971 (36 F.R. 13218-13221). The 
°riginn). and revised proposals were intended to replace a conditional 
iriterim provision regarding such credit which was added to Regulation U, 
r'n April 16, 1971, when the propoeals were initially put forth for 
c Client. 
the revised proposals were to become effective October 1, 
but the Board has. oince postponed the effective date to 
'IK 1, i'i/2 . 

3152 
- 2 -
After consideration of the comments and suggestions received, 
end in view of subsequent changes in the capital rules prescribed by 
the self-regulatory bodies and the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
T h e B°ard (l) has decided to withdraw its proposals to amend § 207.1(f) 
o £ Regulation G, £ 220.4(f)(2) c£ Regulation T, 5 221.2(m) and 
n 
Vj 2?-1.3(b) (A) and (q) of Regulation U, and (2) proposes to amend 
Regulation U by terminating the related provision in paragraph (m) of 
" ' l w h i c h was adopted as an interim measure. 
The effect of the Board's actions in withdrawing the above-
cited rules and terminating § 221.2(m) would be to restore the rules 
0 u tills subject to those vrhich prevailed before April 16, 1971. 
Host importantly, credit extended by banks, after the effec-
t l v G date of the proposed termination, for the purpose of providing 
-aPital to broker/dealer firms would be subject to margin requirements 
if secured directly or indirectly by any stock. This would be the case 
reeardless o f whether the credit was extended directly to the firm or to 
a third party to enable them to contribute capital to the firm. If not 
r'° Secured, such credit would not be subject to Regulation U. 
Credit extended or maintained by banks pursuant to the. pro-
vision in $ 221.2(ra) of Regulation U, prior to the effective date of 
'•t® amendment including renewals or extensions of such credit after that 
'l£it;G( would not become subject to the margin requirements of Regulation 
l,» so long a s 
continued to meet the conditions specified therein. 

3153 
- 3 -
Bank credit would continue to be available to contribute 
capital to broker/dealer firms under paragraph (1) of § 221.2 without 
regard to margin requirements in individual situations where the 
r>°ard has determined, upon certification by the Securities Investor 
Protection Corporation, that such action is appropriate under the cir-
cumstances. 
Section 221,2(m) would be amended to read as follows: 
Section 221.2 - EXCEPTIONS TO GENERAL RULE 
•k 
-k 
* 
* 
* 
(m) Any credit extended t:o a customer, prior to the 
effective date of the proposed termination, and maintained continuously 
thereafter, for the purpose, of: making a loan or contribution of capital 
t o e broker or dealer subject to Part 220 (Regulation T), or to purchase 
stock in such a broker which is a corporation; Provided, That 
(1) such loan or contribution is in conformity with the re-
tirements regarding satisfactory subordination agreements or equities 
ltl the accounts of partners of a rule of the Securities and Exchange 
M i s s i o n (Rule 15e3~l(c)(2)(A) , (c)(4), and (c)(7) (17 CFR 
^O.I5c3-l(c.) (2) (A), (c)(4), and (c)(7)) or the capital rules of an 
exchange of which the broker or dealer is a member if the members 
hereof are exempt therefrom by Rule 15e3-l(b)(2) of the Commission 
CFR 240*15c3-1(b)(2)) or such stock is purchased directly from the 
f)vx\ n o e Q B p,irt o f £ public distribution, and 
(2) all of the prueecada of such extension of credit arc so 
ifnae»i or contributftd to the capital of such broker or deoJer, or used 
%c 
such stock, and 

(3) all of the net proceeds of any withdrawal of such loan 
contribution of capital from such broker or dealer or redemption of 
e^ch stock shall be paid to the bank end used to reduce or retire such 
^tension of credit. 
The Board is affording interested persons an opportunity to 
submit relevant data, views, or arguments concerning the proposed 
amendment. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, 1). C. 20551, to be received not later than November 20, 
such material will be made available for inspection end copying 
uI»oti request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of tha Hoard's Rulcss 
Regarding Availability of Information, 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of , 
^'•le s, ulvil:ed States Code, and § 262.2(a) of the Rules of: Procedure 
0 £ the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CPU 262.2(a)), 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 2, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michacl"XT Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEA^) 

3155 
Item No. 7 
11/2/72 
TITLE 12 - RANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A ~ BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. U] 
PART 221 - CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE 
PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR CARRYING 
MARGIN STOCKS 
Computation of time periods 
by block positioners 
§ 221.121 Computatlon of time periods for acquiring and holding 
blocko of stock by block positioners. 
(a) The Board recently considered two questions in connection 
8«fttiou 221.3(a)(2) and (3) of Regulation U providing for bank 
credit to block positioners which is exempt from the normal margin re-
tirements «s prescribed from time to time in that regulation. 
(b) The first question pertained to the period of time in 
^hieh a block positioner, in order to qualify for the exemption, must 
Position a block of stock when such positioning results from several 
^n&aetiona ct approximately the same time from a single source, as 
^ 
forth (n section 221.3(a)(2)(ii). 
(e) The Board is of the view that the aggregate of several 
transactions from e single source would ordinarily be carried out within 
i] 
span of one half hour in order for such aggregate to be considered 
block of stock eligible for exempt credit. In extraordinary 
however, the blcck positioner could consult the Reserve 
U\ 
Mstcicl its office is situated cc to whether stock 

3156 
•9-
Positioned ever a slightly longer period constitutes a single block. 
I n such a case the block positioner should, of course, disclose all 
relevant circumstances to the Reserve Bank. 
(d) The second question related to the computation of the 
Period of twenty business days, specified in section 221.3(a)(3), in 
wl»ich t,Kempt credit may remain outstanding for positioning a block of 
stock. 
(e) The Board is of the view that the computation of such 
20-day period shall commence on the business day following the date of 
(Interprets and applies 12 CFR 221.3(z)). 
By order of the Board o.t Governors, November 2, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A„ Greenspan 
Michael A, Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSSAL] 

3157 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N D R S 
; o v u n , ; . 
H F T H E 
Item No. 
8 
v ^ l U i - . 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 1 / 2 / 7 2 
iftffl: j W ' ^ W S * 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
feff-rim1^ 
ADDRESS UrriUIAL KOHHtSPCINOENCC 
I 
. 
•Tf.iyir t, ' • 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
November 2, 1972 
Mr. Richard P. Whitney 
v-ice President - Finance 
Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
Washington, D. C. 
20527 
Dear Mr. Whitney: 
The Board has considered your letter with enclosures dated 
October 24, 1972, requesting a ruling regarding the eligibility ior 
Various nurpcses of guaranteed participation certificates that the_ 
Overseas* Priv^e Investment Corporation ("OPIC") contemplates placing 
Privately principally with United States commercial banks. iliese 
certificates would be "unconditionally guaranteed as to timely payment 
o £ principal and interest" by the OPIC. 
OPIC, a wholly-owned corporate agency of the United States 
««der the policy guidance of the Secretary of State, was created by 
the "Foreign Assistance Act of 1969" (83 Stat. 803) to mobilize and 
facilitate the participation of United States private capital and 
skills in the economic and social progress of less d e v e l o p e d fr,en .1> 
countries and areas, thereby complementing the development assistance 
objectives of the United States. Section 234 of the Act authorizes 
°PIC to issue to eligible investors guarantees of loans and other 
investments made by such investors upon such terms and conditions as 
OPTO may determine. Section 237(c) of the Act provides thsu all 
guarantees issued pursuant to the Act shall constitute obligation 
in accordance with the terms of such guarantees, of the United States 
£nd that the full faith and credit of the U n i t e d States is pledged for 
the full payment and oerformar.ee of such obligations 
ihe Depiity Attoin.> 
General of the United States has issued a written opinion a 
July 14, 
-972, concluding that OPIC is authorized to make g u a r a n t e e s for 
t h e 
Purpose intended with respect to the proposed issue 
^
-
^
^
^
^
a
r 
of an Insurance claim arising under an OPiC contract of. insurance 

3158 
Nr. Richard V. Whitney 
- 2 -
« 
Predecessor guarantee authority), and that such a guarantee would consti-
tute a general obligation of the United States backed by its full faith 
and credit, 
In the liPht of these provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act 
and the nature of OPIC's guarantee with respect to the proposed certifi-
cates, it is the Board's judgment that any such certificate wouJd be a 
"direct obligation of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest 
by, any agency of the United States" (12 U.S.C. § 335) and, as such, would 
be elicible for purchase by Reserve Banks in open market operations as 
Provided in section 14(b) cf the Federal Reserve Act and would also be 
eligible as collateral security for advances to member banks for periods 
not exceeding 90 days as provided in the eighth paragraph of section 13 of 
fche Federal Peserve Act. 
The Board has also determined that the certificates would 
constitute "obi Irations of the United States" within the meaning of section 
5136 of the United States Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. § 24) and, as such, 
•®ay be purchased bv any State member bank for its own account without 
regard to the limitations and restrictions of section 5136, as provxaed 
in the twentieth paragraph of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
he 
interpretation of section 5136 as it relates to national banks is p u w a u ) 
the responsibility of the Comptroller of the Currency, and you may wish to 
contact: his office to determine whether he would render a similar opinion. 
The remaining question raised in your letter is whether the 
OPIC certificates would be eligible as collateral for Federal Reserve 
member bank's Treasury tax and loan accounts. The kmas of s^ur-.ties 
acceptable as collateral for Treasury tax and loan accounts are described 
in 31 CFR 203.8 and include "obligations issued or fully insured or 
guaranteed by the United States or any U.S. Government agency. 
Board has already indicated its opinion that the OPIC certificates would 
qualify under similar language in Federal statutes that the Board ^ministers 
However» the regulations with respect to securing of Treasury tax c • < -
accounts have been issued by the Secretary of the T r e a s u r y 
at,a you may 
vish to contact that office for an opinion as to whether the proposed 01 
certificates would fall within the coverage of those regulations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3158 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 1 / 2 / 7 2 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
U . 
C . 
2.0551 
ADDRESS OrriCIAU CORRESPCJNDCNCE 
TD THE NNARD 
November 2, 1972 
American National Bank of Nashville 
;V'6 Union Street 
Nashville, Tennessee 37202. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to First American National Bank of Nashville, Nashville, 
®nnes3ee, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
j^serve Act, to establish a branch in George Town, Grand dayman, 
^yinan Islands, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the 
Provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
^ 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
anch will be used for developing new international business and not 
a m e ans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United 
"f-ates. it is also understood that there is to be no contact with the 
ocal public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and book-
-cping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another 
party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
S°-«-ng permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
ypes of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, 
W 
the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
kranch under Section 2.13.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
® Motion provided in subparagraph (i.i) of Section 213.7(a) or the ex-
cfusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the further 
that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
IX be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
and its accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly 
Stormed of any modification in the branch7s methods of operation, 
deluding changes in any contract under which services are supplied to 
L h c branch. 
of uo{:. 
IS1/ 
Ml R^'T •' 

3160 
First American National Bank 
of Kashville 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before D e c e m b e r 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall 
be daomed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
niching information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
-hould also be promptly informed of any future change in location of the 
branch in George Town. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
( m ly at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q, 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
Requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
i s to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and con-
tinues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
Panics unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, nec-
essary purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
°u'tside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
o f the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
wil'h minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in the con-
duct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United Staces. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
