MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 2, 1968 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, December 2, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Harris, Coordinator of Defense Planning 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Holmes, Vice President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York and Manager of 
the System Open Market Account 
SEC investigation. Staff of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission had prepared under date of October 31, 1968, a report of 
investigation regarding (1) the use, in 1967, of advance information 
concerning Treasury financing and (2) "interpositioning" practices 
engaged in by individuals in the employ of certain securities dealers 
in New York City. The staff report was to be presented to the 
Commission shortly, and three different types of proceedings were 
being considered, including administrative proceedings, injunction 
proceedings, and criminal proceedings. 

4154 
12/2/68 
-2-
Developments in the matter were outlined in a memorandum from 
Mr. Hackley to Governor Robertson dated November 29, 1968, copies of 
which had been made available to the other members of the Board. 
The purpose of the discussion at this meeting was to bring 
the Board up to date, to raise certain questions, and to alert the 
Board to possible developments. 
The principal statement was made by Mr. Holmes, who reviewed 
the situation generally and noted that a number of questions were 
presented, such as whether securities firms should be urged to dis-
charge employees who were under suspicion in relation to the "inter-
positioning" practices, whether the firms involved should be suspended 
from trading with the Federal Reserve until the results of proceedings 
growing out of the SEC investigation were known, and whether, if the 
Commission should assess penalties on individuals or firms involved 
in the "interpositioning" practices, the Federal Reserve should go 
further and refuse to do business with any firm if it or its employees 
were deemed to have engaged in fraudulent practices. 
Since the SEC staff report and its appendices referred to a 
number of complex transactions that were hard to follow, Mr. Holmes 
made the specific recommendation that a request be submitted at staff 
level that representatives of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury be 
permitted to study the underlying documentation so that a better 
understanding might be obtained of the transactions involved. 

4155 
12/2/68 
-3-
There was general agreement that it would be desirable to 
have the benefit of such a technical study, and the Board concurred 
in the view that a request should be made for access to the relevant 
documents. 
Mr. Holmes also noted that the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission was likely to issue a press statement with reference to the 
investigation, which raised the question whether the Federal Reserve 
should join in it. 
Chairman Martin observed that it would appear unwise for the 
Federal Reserve to associate itself with the charges, because not 
enough was known about them, and it developed to be the general view 
that the Federal Reserve should not join in an SEC press statement, 
leaving open the question whether the Federal Reserve would want to 
issue a statement of its own. 
A longer-run problem, Mr. Holmes pointed out, related to 
continuing surveillance and supervision of the Government securities 
market, and a suggestion had been made that the System might want to 
make use of its trading relationships as a vehicle for the enforce-
ment of standards of dealer conduct. It was his recommendation that 
the Secretariat of the Joint Treasury-Federal Reserve Study of the 
Government Securities Market be reactivated to study certain pro-
cedural suggestions contained in the SEC staff report, explore other 
aspects of the situation as well, and make recommendations of longer-
run application. 

4156 
12/2/68 
-4-
It was agreed that the Secretariat should be reactivated for 
the purpose mentioned, with the understanding that this decision 
could be confirmed at the next meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. 
Inquiry was made as to the responsibility of the Federal 
Reserve in relation to "interpositioning" practices such as cited in 
the SEC staff report, and Mr. Holmes replied that the System had no 
legal responsibility. However, both the Federal Reserve and the 
Treasury were interested in the proper functioning of the Government 
securities market and thus were concerned about any poor practices in 
that area. 
Governor Robertson mentioned that at his request Mr. Harris 
had compiled a complete record of developments growing out of the 
Treasury financing leak in 1967, and he requested that Mr. Harris be 
kept advised also of developments on the "interpositioning" problem 
and the results of the proposed study of SEC staff documents by 
technical experts. 
Mr. Harris noted that the General Accounting Office was hold-
ing temporarily in abeyance an investigation of fiscal agency opera-
tions at the Federal Reserve Banks. He felt that the General 
Accounting Office might move forward when the SEC report was released 
and raised the question whether the Reserve Bank Presidents should 
be alerted. 

4 x , j 
/ 
12/2/68 
-5-
Governor Robertson suggested that the subject be covered with 
the Presidents at the time of the next Open Market Committee meeting 
unless developments made it appear that earlier communication with 
them would be advisable, in which event the question could be brought 
back to the Board for further consideration. 
Question was raised whether it was correct to assume that 
there was nothing in the SEC staff report, other than the 1967 inci-
dent at the Philadelphia Reserve Bank, to suggest wrongdoing on the 
part of Federal Reserve personnel, and Mr. Holmes said the assumption 
was correct. 
Messrs. Holmes and Harris then withdrew from the meeting. 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary, and Miss Wolcott of the Office of 
the Secretary entered the room along with officers and staff members 
of the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of Inter-
national Finance. 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
After a discussion based on the review, members of the 
research divisions other than Mr. Ettin of the Division of Research 
and Statistics and Messrs. Reynolds and Sammons of the Division of 
International Finance withdrew from the meeting. Messrs. Holland 
and Cardon also withdrew and the following entered: 

4158 
12/2/68 
-6-
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Messrs. Lipkowitz, Lynch, Noble, and Plotkin 
of the Legal Division 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Cloth, Kline, Rumbarger, and Shuter 
of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on November 25, by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, and Chicago on November 27, and 
by the Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, St. Louis, and Dallas on 
November 29, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
American International Bank. Pursuant to the understanding 
at the meeting on October 18, 1968, the Legal Division, in a memoran-
dum of November 22, presented additional information believed to be 
relevant to the request of American International Bank, New York, New 
York, an Edge corporation, for a ruling on whether the occasional 

4159 
12/2/68 
-7-
purchase of gold bullion from licensed domestic sources for resale to 
licensed domestic users under its Treasury Department gold license 
would be permissible under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, 
as long as such domestic purchases were not substantial in relation 
to its aggregate foreign purchases. 
Among other things, the memorandum advised that the Treasury 
had been consulted and that it had no particular views with regard 
to American International Bank's request. American International 
Bank had confirmed its earlier position that it would not be able to 
continue to operate in the bullion market unless it had some latitude 
to make domestic purchases but had suggested that it could, if neces-
sary, live with a limit of 15 to 20 per cent in relation to total gold 
purchases during any quarter. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York remained unconvinced that 
it was necessary for American International Bank to be permitted to 
purchase gold in the United States in order to continue to deal in 
foreign gold or that such domestic purchases were a necessary incident 
to the purchase of gold overseas. However, the Board's Legal Division 
continued to believe that it would be reasonable to permit American 
International to have some leeway to make occasional gold purchases 
domestically, that the Board would be legally justified in permitting 
the Edge corporation to make domestic purchases within a limited range 
to meet market demands, and that a limit in the range of 15 to 20 per 
cent of aggregate purchases would be reasonable. 

4160 
12/2/68 
-8-
After reviewing the additional information submitted, most 
members of the Board concluded that occasional purchases of domestic 
gold by the Edge corporation could appropriately be defined as an 
activity incidental to its international or foreign business within 
the meaning of section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. A limit of 
15 per cent in relation to aggregate gold purchases during any 
quarter was considered to be acceptable. 
Governor Brimmer agreed with the view of the New York Reserve 
Bank. In his opinion the purchase of domestic gold did not fall 
within the proper scope of business for an Edge corporation and 
American International Bank should not continue to operate in the 
bullion market if it could not do so without engaging in domestic 
gold purchases. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, approval was given to a 
letter to American International Bank in the form attached as 
Item No. 1. Governor Brimmer dissenting. 
United Bancshares. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
and statement reflecting its approval on October 28, 1968, of the 
application of United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Coral Gables, 
Florida, to acquire shares of United National Bank of Dadeland, Miami, 
Florida, a proposed new bank. Copies of the documents, as issued, are 
attached under Item No. 2. 
It had been understood at the October 28 meeting that United 
Bancshares would be placed on notice, when advice of the current action 

1 6 1 
12/2/68 
-9-
was sent to it, that the Board would not be disposed to give favor-
able consideration to additional acquisition proposals until the 
holding company's debt was retired or at least substantially reduced. 
A copy of the letter sent pursuant to that understanding is attached 
as Item No. 3. 
Hawkeye Bancorporation. Hawkeye Bancorporation, Red Oak, 
Iowa, had applied for permission to acquire shares of three banks 
in Iowa: Burlington Bank and Trust Company, Burlington; First 
National Bank, Clinton; and The Pella National Bank, Pella. In each 
case control of the bank was presently held by Mr. Paul D. Dunlap, 
President of Hawkeye, and certain associates through the medium of 
one-bank holding companies, so the applications contemplated merely 
a rearrangement of corporate ownership. 
The recommendations received from the State Superintendent of 
Banking and the Comptroller of the Currency were favorable, but the 
Examinations Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago recom-
mended denial because of serious reservations regarding the character 
of applicant's management as exemplified by its president. 
In a memorandum dated November 8, 1968, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation recommended approval of the applications, but 
with a condition that consummation of the transactions not occur until 
such time as all debt had been eliminated from applicant's corporate 
structure by the sale of equity capital. The Division noted that 

4 
12/2/68 
-10-
applicant1s debt position was already quite heavy and that the appli-
cations under consideration envisaged the assumption of additional 
debt now carried by the three corporations whose mergers with appli-
cant would effectuate the proposed acquisitions. However, President 
Dunlap reportedly had made a commitment that applicant would sell 
stock in an amount sufficient to retire both its present debt and 
the debt it proposed to assume. 
It was the general view of the Board members that in all the 
circumstances the applications should be approved. The principal 
discussion related to whether there should be a stipulation, in 
approving the applications, that the entire corporate debt must be 
eliminated through the sale of stock. It was pointed out, on the one 
hand, that this would be a more stringent requirement than the Board 
had laid down in some other holding company situations. On the other 
hand, it was felt that the management policies and practices cited 
by the Chicago Reserve Bank should not be disregarded, and in any 
event it was noted that a commitment had been made on behalf of the 
applicant. Accordingly, it was the consensus that applicant should 
be advised that approval of the applications was predicated on the 
commitment of Hawkeye Bancorporation to a program for the early 
retirement of its entire debt, both existing and to be assumed. 
The applications were then approved unanimously, subject to 
the understanding with respect to debt retirement, and it was 

4163 
12/2/68 
-11-
understood that orders and a statement would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration. 
Equity funding. In a memorandum dated November 25, 1968, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation proposed certain amend-
ments to Regulation G, Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, 
or Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity 
Securities, and Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of 
Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks, and recommended that they 
be sent to the Federal Reserve Banks for consideration prior to pub-
lication for comment. 
The first proposal was to make loans extended by banks and 
by Regulation G lenders to finance equity funding programs subject to 
margin regulation. Such programs involve the coordinated acquisition, 
over a period of time, of mutual fund shares and insurance, the shares 
being pledged to secure loans to pay the insurance premiums. While 
it seemed obvious that in an economic sense the loans served to 
finance acquisition of the shares, an argument had been made that the 
loans were not under present regulatory language "for the purpose" of 
purchasing or carrying the shares. In any event, however, it seemed 
clear that the programs themselves were "securities" within the mean-
ing of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, so that under the recent 
amendments to that Act relating to over-the-counter securities the 
Board had authority to bring loans to finance the programs under 

4X64 
12/2/68 
-12-
margin regulation. Also, the Securities and Exchange Commission had 
ruled that such plans or programs were "securities." 
The second proposal was to discontinue the Board's List of 
Stocks Registered on a National Securities Exchange and of Certain 
Investment Companies. In its place would be substituted regulatory 
language that would have the effect of requiring banks and Regula-
tion G lenders to conclude that loans to purchase or carry mutual 
fund shares were subject to margin regulation unless the fund 
invested 95 per cent or more of its portfolio in "exempted" securi-
ties (chiefly Government securities). 
Most Board members expressed themselves as persuaded by the 
staff analysis, subject to further consideration in the light of com-
ments received from the public and the Reserve Banks, and therefore 
favored publication of the proposed regulatory amendments. In this 
connection it was suggested that the time span prior to final action 
could be shortened by securing the views of the Reserve Banks con-
currently with publication of the proposed amendments for comment 
rather than prior to such publication. 
With regard to the second of the proposals, to discontinue 
the List of Stocks Registered on a National Securities Exchange and 
of Certain Investment Companies, Governor Mitchell noted that a 
decision on such a matter should not be based solely on cost consid-
erations. While there was general agreement with that observation, 

4165 
12/2/68 
-13-
the view was that in this instance the proposed action appeared to be 
warranted on regulatory and administrative grounds. 
"-i-wctn ... t.v; '.!:.' .... t <•.-.' •:: : 
Governor Maisel expressed reservations with respect to the 
proposal to make loans under equity funding programs subject to 
margin regulation because of certain policy implications he saw in 
Ch'J " 
' „> i-'.'^Ci . i, \ 
; 
it that to him were troublesome. The mere fact that authority 
Uviier tcr- »".u;i :-V- V. 
• 
existed to regulate did not suggest to him that the authority should 
necessarily be exercised, and in this instance he felt that what 
might be involved in regulation was an element of discrimination 
against parties whose judgment indicated to them the desirability 
of purchasing insurance in a certain manner. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the publication of the 
proposed amendments for comment was authorized, with the understand-
ing that the views of the Reserve Banks also would be requested. A 
copy of the letter sent to the Reserve Banks in this connection is 
attached as Item No. 4. Copies of the proposed amendments are 
attached under Item No. 5, along with a copy of the related press 
release. 
Reserve Bank matters. The following items were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had 
been made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the 
respective numbers indicated. 

12/2/68 
-14-
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
interposing no objection to the acquisition of an 
easement at the rear of the Oklahoma City Branch 
building at a cost not to exceed $55,000. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving a revised salary range for the position 
of the Bank's Medical Director. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
approving a revision of the salary structures 
applicable to employees at the head office and 
branches. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

4167 
i: 
f 
B D A R D CDF G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
12/2/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 2, 1968 
American International Bank, 
120 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to your letters of July 26, August 6, 
and October 23, 1968, requesting the Board's opinion whether 
domestic gold purchases under your Treasury license for 
resale to domestic users would be permissible under section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. That statute provides that no 
Edge corporation "shall carry on any part of its business in 
the United States except such as, in the judgment of the 
Board . . ., shall be incidental to its international or 
foreign business . . . ." (12 U.S.C. 616) 
In the circumstances of this particular case, the 
Board would not object to occasional domestic purchases of 
gold under your Treasury license, provided that such domestic 
purchases do not exceed 15 per cent of your aggregate gold 
purchases during any calendar quarter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4168 
Item No. 2 
12/2/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
UNITED BANCSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC., 
' 
Coral Gables, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
1 
66-2/3 per cent of the voting shares of 
' 
United National Bank of Dadeland, Miami, 
1 
Florida, a proposed new bank. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., 
Coral Gables, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 66-2/3 per cent 
of the voting shares of United National Bank of Dadeland, Miami, 
Florida, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 

-2-
4 1 i » 3 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 21, 1968 (33 Federal Register 9229), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority, 
and that United National Bank of Dadeland shall be open for business 
not later than six months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 2nd day of December, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

4170 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
UNITED BANCSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC., CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
UNITED NATIONAL BANK OF DADELAND, MIAMI, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Coral Gables, Florida 
('Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 66-2/3 per cent or more of the voting shares of United 
National Bank of Dadeland, Miami, Florida ("Dadeland Bank"), a pro-
posed new bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
o f the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
a»» j 
recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
P a r t 
the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

4171 
-2-
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, the 
seventh largest holding company and seventh largest banking organization 
in the State of Florida, presently controls three banks with aggregate 
, 
1/ 
aePosits of $219 million. 
The 10 largest banking organizations 
Presently control about 37 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
in the State; Applicant controls 2.3 per cent of such deposits. Dade-
land Bank, a proposed new bank, is expected to have $12 million in 
total deposits after three years of operation. Approval of the appli-
cation would therefore have no immediate effect and only negligible 
i°ng-range effect on the present degree of State-wide concentration. 
Dadeland Bank will be located in the Dadeland Shopping 
Center about 6-1/4 miles south of Applicant's Coral Gables subsidiary 
and about 12-1/2 miles south of the business district of Miami, where 
Banking data are as of December 30, 1967, unless otherwise noted, 
and reflect acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

4172 
-3-
another of Applicant's subsidiaries is located. Applicant's lead bank, 
located in Miami Beach, is not a competitor in the area to be served 
by Dadeland Bank. 
Of Applicant's three present subsidiary banks, only Coral 
Gables Bank is regarded as competing significantly in the area to be 
served by Dadeland Bank. However, since Dadeiand Bank is a proposed 
new bank that will not open for business unless the application is 
approved, no existing competition will be eliminated, nor will poten-
tial competition between the bank and Applicant'c present subsidiaries 
be foreclosed by the transaction. 
Dadeland Bank will face competition from four existing banks 
its primary service area, a rapidly growing area in the southern 
Part of Dade County. At present, the nearest bank is the Bank of 
Kendall, which is located less than one mile from Bank's proposed site, 
° n the opposite side of a primary north-south expressway. The Bank of 
Kendall is a subsidiary of Commercial Bancorp, a registered bank hold-
in8 company. The other three banks, which range in deposit size from 
^ million to $31 million, are located along the expressway about two 
t o four miles from Dadeland Bank's proposed location. It does not 
aPpear that consummation of Applicant's proposal would adversely 
a^£ect the viability or competitive effectiveness of competing banks. 
In light of these facts, the Board concludes that consumma-
of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly nor be 

* -I KN-J 
-2-
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any area. It does not appear that the pro-
posal would have the effect of substantially lessening competition or 
tending to create a monopoly in any section of the country, nor would 
It in any other manner be in restraint of trade. 
Financial and managerial resouces and future prospects. -
Dadeland Bank's proposed capital appears adequate; its management, 
which will be drawn from Applicant's present subsidiaries, is con-
sidered satisfactory; and its prospects appear favorable. 
The financial condition of Applicant's present subsidiary 
banks is reasonably satisfactory, and the management of Applicant and 
Its subsidiaries is capable and experienced. While Applicant now has 
a relatively heavy debt position, consummation of this proposal will 
n o t ^rther increase this debt and, from an earnings standpoint, could 
Provide opportunity for reduction of Applicant's debt position by 
affording it an expanded source of future earnings. On balance, the 
Board concludes that considerations under these factors are consistent 
with approval of the present application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - The estab-
lishment of Dadeland Bank at its proposed site will add to the con-
venience of the businesses located in the Dadeland Shopping Center, 
and to that of their employees and customers. In addition, Dadeland 
Bank will offer a check credit plan and long-term mortgages, services 

not available from other banks located in the area to be served. • This 
added convenience and additional service provide some weight in favor 
of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
December 2, 1968. 

u:?5 
Item No. 3 
12/2/68 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 2, 19 68. 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., 
210 Andalusia Avenue, 
Coral Gables, Florida. 33134 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., to 
acquire at least 66-2/3 per cent of the voting shares of United 
National Bank of Dadeland, Miami, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
The Board's Order, accompanying Statement, and press release are 
enclosed. 
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Order 
relating to the periods of time within which the acquisition 
approved shall be consummated, and United National Bank of Dadeland 
opened for business, advice of the fact of acquisition and of open-
ing the Bank for business should be given in writing to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
As indicated in the Board's Statement, approval of this 
application does not imply satisfaction with Bancshares' financial 
condition. While the capital of the subsidiary banks appears satis-
factory, assuming the addition of $2.5 million to the capital of 
Coral Gables First National Bank as proposed, the abnormally high 
debt position of the holding company continues to be a cause for 
concern, and the Board indicated that it will not be disposed to 
give favorable consideration to additional acquisition proposals 
until such debt is retired, or at least substantially reduced. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
4176 
Item No. 4 
12/2/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
December 6, 1968. 
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Dear Sir: 
There are enclosed copies of a press release and proposed 
amendments to the Board's Regulations G and U in the form in which 
they will be submitted for publication in the Federal Register. It 
is anticipated that these materials will be released to the press at 
3:30 p.m. on Tuesday, December 10, 1968. Until that time they are, 
of course, highly confidential and should be available only to those 
members of your staff who are directly concerned with this matter. 
The first problem dealt with by the proposed amendments, 
whether loans under "equity funding" programs are subject to margin 
regulati on, is a question that has been submitted by a number of 
Reserve Banks. The other problem was brought to light during inspec-
tion of a lender registered pursuant to Regulation G and relates to 
the Board's "List of Stocks Registered on a National Securities 
Exchange and of Certain Investment Companies." The enclosed memo-
randum discusses the background of the first problem. 
Equity funding programs involve coordinated acquisition, 
over a period of time, of mutual fund shares and insurance, the 
shares being pledged to secure loans to pay the insurance premiums. 
While it is obvious that, in an economic sense, the loans serve to 
finance acquisition of the shares, the argument has been made to the 
Board that they are not under present regulatory language, "for the 
purpose" of purchasing or carrying the shares, and are not, therefore, 
subject to margin regulation. 
Whatever the merit of such an argument, it is clear that the 
programs themselves are "securities" within the meaning of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, so that under the recent amendments 
to that Act by P.L. 90-437 (the "Over-the-Counter Margin Act") the 
Board has authority to bring loans to finance the programs under 
margin regulation. Moreover, an amendment along these lines would be 

m .a 
y - n ^ . 
t 
f 
consistent with the position of the Securities and Exchange Cotamission, 
which has ruled that such plans or programs are "securities". In view 
of the recent proliferation of cpmpanies selling equity funding plans; 
it seems evident that the plans represent a loophole of increasing 
significance. 
A reason for closing this loophole by means of an amendment, 
rather than by an interpretation, is that an interpretation, which 
would normally have retroactive effect, would be unfair to persons who 
have entered into contracts on the assumption that they could complete 
the investment program involved. This is particularly true in the case 
of programs involving full payment of sales charges at initiation of 
the plan (front-end load plans). An amendment, which would affect only 
future contracts, would seem preferable for this reason. 
Turning to the second problem, the Board's list of stocks and 
investment companies is issued for the use of banks and other lenders 
pursuant to sections207.4(b) and 221.3(d) of Regulations G and U, 
respectively. The investment companies included on the list are those 
which "customarily" include in their portfolios stocks that are registered 
on national securities exchanges. 
The sections mentioned above provide that in determining 
whether a loan is for the purpose of purchasing or carrying securities 
subject to the regulations, a bank or other lender "may rely" upon the 
Board's list. The Board has interpreted this language to mean that a 
bank officer or lender must make a reasonable effort to inform himself, 
and may rely on the list only if unable to obtain information elsewhere. 
It is believed that most banks have interpreted § 221.3(d) in this 
light. However, it appears that at least one lender subject to Regula-
tion G has specialized in making low margin loans to purchase shares of 
mutual funds that were not on the list (because data on the funds was 
not available when the latest issue was compiled), even though well 
aware that the funds' portfolios customarily included registered equity 
securities. Furthermore, a recently completed survey by the Board's 
staff 8hows that there are very few mutual funds whose portfolios do 
not customarily include registered stocks. 
The proposed amendments would have the effect of requiring 
banks and lenders subject to Regulation G to conclude that a stock-
(or mutual fund)-secured loan to purchase or carry mutual fund shares 
is subject to Regulations G or U, as the case may be, unless the fund 
invests 95 per cent or more of its portfolio in "exempted" securities 
(chiefly governments). The amendments would eliminate both the list 
of mutual funds and the list of stocks that are registered on a 
national securities exchange. 

Interested persons have been invited to submit views and 
comments to the Board through the Reserve Banks. It would be appre-
ciated if your Bank would transmit copies of such comments as they are 
received. In addition, the Board would appreciate receiving your views 
on such public comments, as well as your views and recommendations on 
the proposals themselves. 
Very truly yours 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

For immediate release 
Item No. 5 
12/2/68 
December 10, 1968. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today proposals to broaden the coverage of margin Regulations G and U, 
especially as they apply to loans on mutual fund shares. 
The proposals, on which the Board invited comment through 
the Federal Reserve Banks from interested persons by January 13, 1969, 
would bring "equity funding" plans or programs under both regulations. 
Regulation G applies to "Credit By Persons Other Than Banks, 
Brokers, or Dealers for Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered 
Equity Securities" while Regulation U covers "Credit By Banks for the 
Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks." Broker-dealer 
firms subject to Regulation T--"Credit By Brokers, Dealers, and Members 
of National Securities Exchanges"--are not permitted to make loans on 
mutual fund shares. 
"Equity funding" programs are investment contracts for the 
coordinated acquisition of mutual fund shares and insurance or other 
goods, services, or investments, the shares being pledged to secure 
loans to pay for the other items specified. Credit extended in connec-
tion with such programs offered or sold after January 31, 1969, would 
b e subject to the margin and other requirements of the regulations. 
Credit extended in connection with programs sold prior to that date 
would not be affected. 

- 2 -
41 
Under the margin requirement currently in effect, the maximum 
loan value of stock collateral is 20% which means that anyone seeking an 
extension of credit on $100 of securities could receive a maximum credit 
of $20. 
The use of credit in connection with the sale of equity funditsg 
Programs, which principally involve the purchase of mutual fund shares, 
represents an avenue for the circumvention of margin rules. 
The proposed amendments would also make certain technical change 
In the regulations designed to make it easier to determine whether a loan 
on mutual fund shares is subject to margin requirements. Loans are pres-
ently subject to Regulations G and U if the purpose of the loan is to 
Purchase or carry exchange-registered stocks, or bonds convertible into 
such stocks. Loans to purchase or carry shares in a mutual fund are 
deemed to be for the purpose of purchasing or carrying such securities, 
and therefore, subject to margin regulation, if the assets of the fund 
customarily include" such stocks or convertible bonds. 
To facilitate such determinations, the Board has for some 
years published a "List of Stocks Registered on a National Securities 
Exchange and of Securities of Certain Investment Companies," the invest-
ment companies on the list being those whose portfolios fall within the 
regulatory definition. 
It has become apparent that there are very few 
mutual funds whose shares would not be subject to margin regulation. 
Accordingly, the proposed amendment would provide that all investment 
company shares are subject to Regulations G and U unless 95 per cent 
the fund's portfolio is invested continuously in "exempted" (chiefly 
a* 
government) securities. This would eliminate the need for publication 

1181 
- 3 -
the investment company list and it would be discontinued as would also 
the list of registered stocks. 
Attached are the texts of the proposed amendments in the form 
in which they will be submitted for publication to the Federal Register. 
i. 
. .' .•'••• 
- 0 -
Attachments. 
i 
i . i . 
i : 
\ i-
rJ .. : 
(•'• i •• 
! --
,-i 
' 
• 
: 
' 
) 
i t ; . 
. 
..: ;• . . . . 
. 

/T ,•* 
•iifV 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 207] 
[Reg, G] 
CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, 
OR DEALERS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR 
CARRYING REGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES 
Notice of Proposed Rule Making 
Pursuant to the authority contained in the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
system is considering amending Part 207 in the following respects: 
1. In section 207.2, paragraph (d)(2) would be amended to read 
as follows: 
§ 2°7*2 Definitions. 
* 
* 
* 
Registered equity security. * * * 
(2) Credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying (i) any sec-
urity convertible with or without consideration into a registered equity 
security or carrying any warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase a 
registered equity security or any such warrant or right, (ii) any security 
issued by 
an investment company registered pursuant to section 8 of the 
Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8) , unless at least 95 per 
cent of the assets of such company are continuously invested in exempted 
securities (as defined in 15 U.S.C, 78c(a)(12)), or (iii) credit extended 
*"n furtherance of any plan, program, or investment contract offered or sold 
a t t e r Januarv 31, 1969, which provides for the acquisition both of securities 
^scribed in this paragraph (d) and of goods, services, other securities, 
o r Investments, is for the purpose of purchasing or carrying registered 

41g 
- 2 -
equity securities, and such security, warrant or right, or such plan, 
program3or investment contract, shall for purposes of this Part be 
treated as if it were a registered equity security. 
* 
* 
* 
2. In section 207,4, paragraph (b), relating to the Board of 
Governors1 "List of Stocks Registered on a National Securities Exchange 
and of Securities of Certain Investment Companies," would be revoked. 
The purpose of the change in paragraph (a)(2) of section 
is to establish that credit to finance programs for the combined 
Purchase of registered equity securities (including securities issued by 
most investment companies registered pursuant to the Investment Company 
Act of 1940) and goods, services, other securities, or investments ("equity 
funding") is subject to the regulation. An additional technical change 
would clarify that credit to purchase or carry securities issued by most 
investment companies is subject to the regulation. Paragraph (b) of 
section 207.4 would be revoked as unnecessary and reserved for subsequent use. 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
United States Code, and § 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure of the Board 
° f Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, interested 
Persons are invited to submit, in writing, relevant data, views, or arguments. 
S u c h material should be submitted to any Federal Reserve Bank, to be received 
n o t later than January 13, 1969. Under the Board's rules regarding avail-
a b i U t y o f i n f o r m a t i o n ( 1 2 CFR 261) , such materials will be made available 

4 1 8 4 
- 3 
-
. 
i. 
for inspection and copying to any person upon request unless the person 
: f. 
submitting the material requests that it be considered confidential. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 10th day of December, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary, 

4185 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 221] 
[Reg. U] 
LOANS BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING 
OR CARRYING REGISTERED STOCKS 
Notice of Proposed Rule Making 
Pursuant to the authority contained in the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g), the Board of Governors is considering amending 
Part 221 in the following respects: 
Section 221.3 would be amended as follows: Paragraph (b)(3) 
would be revised, paragraph (d) would be revoked, and paragraph (m) would 
b e revised, as follows: 
® ^21.3 Miscellaneous Provisions. 
* 
* 
* 
(b) Purpose of a credit. * * * 
(3) Credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying a security 
issued by an investment company registered pursuant to section 8 of the 
^vestment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), unless at least 95 per 
C e n t of the assets of such company are continuously invested in exempted 
securities (as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(12)), and credit extended in 
furtherance of any plan, program, or investment contract offered or sold 
a f t e r January 31, 1969, which provides for the acquisition both of stock 
re8istered on a national securities exchange, any security convertible 
i n to such a stock, or any securities described i,n this paragraph (b)(3), 
a n d of goods, services, other securities, or investments, is "credit 
8ubject to § 221.1." 
* 
* 
* 

(d) [revoked] 
* 
it 
"k 
(m) A "credit subject to § 221.1" is a credit which is (1) 
secured directly or indirectly by any stock (or made to a person described 
in paragraph (q) of this section), (2) extended for the purpose of pur-
chasing or carrying any stock registered on a national securities exchange, 
°r any security convertible with or without consideration into such a 
stock, or carrying any warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase or 
carry such a stock, or any such warrant or right (such security, warrant, 
0 r right is sometimes referred to as a "security convertible into a stock 
registered on a national securities exchange"), or any security described 
l n § 221.3(b)(3), and (3) not excepted by § 221.2. 
•k 
-k 
-k 
The purpose of the change in paragraph (b)(3) is to establish 
that credit to finance programs for the combined purchase of registered 
equity securities (including securities issued by most investment com-
panies registered pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940) and 
S°ods, services, other securities, or investments ("equity funding") is 
subj 
ect to the regulation. An additional technical change would clarify 
that credit to purchase or carry securities issued by most investment 
companies is subject to the regulation. Paragraph (d), relating to the 
B°ard of Governors' "List of Stocks Registered on a National Securities 
^change and of Securities of Certain Investment Companies," would be 
revoked as unnecessary and reserved for subsequent use. Paragraph (m) 
wouid be amended to conform to the change in paragraph (b)(3). 

4187 
- 3 -
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
United States Code, and § 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, in-
terested persons are invited to submit, in writing, relevant data, views, 
°r arguments. Such material should be submitted to any Federal Reserve 
Bank, to be received not later than January 13, 1969. Under the Board's 
rules regarding availability of information (12 CFR 261), such materials 
• 
W H 1 be made available for inspection and copying to any person upon 
request unless the person submitting the material requests that it be 
considered confidential. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 10th day of December, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4188 
Item No. 6 
T E L E G R A M 
1 2 / 2 / 6 8 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
December 2, 1968. 
CLAY - KANSAS CITY 
The Board will interpose no objection to acquisition by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City of an easement from 
. 
• id 
. 
Robert S. Kerr Avenue to the alley at the rear of the Oklahoma 
City Branch at a price not to exceed $55,000, as described in 
your letter of November 22, 1968. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

41h9 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
12/2/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 2, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
Jtew (ICpyicr,! New 
10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
As requested in your letter of November 22, 
the Board of Governors approves the following special 
salary range for the Bank's Medical Director, effective 
immediately: 
Minimum 
Maximum 
$25,000 
38,000 
3 
U:<) 
) >' 
U . ! / ) 
\ 3, m 
! A > 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
i .J I: 

1130 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
12/2/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 2, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Robert E. Moody, Jr., 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Moody: 
As requested in your letter of November 18, 1968, the Board 
of Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for 
the respective grades of the employees' salary structures at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and Branches, effective January 1, 1969. 
Atlanta- 
Jacksonville-
Birmingham 
New Orleans 
Nashville 
Grade 
Minimum Maximum 
Minimum Maximum 
Minimum Maximum 
1 
$ 3,350 $ 4,300 
$ 3,350 $ 4,300 
$ 3,350 $ 4,125 
2 
3,350 
4,475 
3,350 
4,475 
3,350 
4,275 
3 
3,500 
4,700 
3,500 
4,700 
3,350 
4,475 
4 
3,750 
5,050 
3,750 
5,050 
3,500 
4,700 
5 
4,100 
5,500 
4,100 
5,500 
3,750 
5,050 
6 
4,525 
6,075 
4,525 
6,075 
4,100 
5,500 
7 
5,025 
6,775 
4,975 
6,725 
4,525 
6,075 
8 
5,625 
7,575 
5,500 
7,400 
5,025 
6,775 
9 
6,300 
8,500 
6,050 
8,150 
5,625 
7,575 
10 
7,075 
9,525 
6,650 
8,950 
6,300 
8,500 
11 
7,925 
10,675 
7,400 
10,000 
7,150 
9,650 
12 
8,850 
11,950 
8,250 
11,150 
8,100 
10,900 
13 
9,875 
13,325 
9,200 
12,400 
9,125 
12,275 
14 
10,975 
14,825 
10,225 
13,775 
10,225 
13,775 
15 
12,175 
16,425 
11,400 
15,400 
11,400 
15,400 
16 
13,450 
18,150 
12,650 
17,050 
12,650 
17,050 

4191 
Mr. Robert E. Moody, Jr. 
- 2 -
Salaries should be paid to employees within the limits spec-
ified for the grades in which their respective positions are classified. 
All employees whose salaries are below the minimum of their grades as a 
result of these structure increases should be brought within appropriate 
ranges by April 1, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
c'.u < r: t ,> 
" ' . ?. 
. . : - : f I 
j I : !..;<( i "if 
.. . i: 
• 
l ' ;.. ;• 
• i.)' 
• -r. t , ;o». ' ... . . . •. • 
' 
i / 
,, 
'' 
• • . V 
• • ' 
I; 
. 
• I : -: • 
