PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
July 9. 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2060 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 9, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. McClintock, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 

zmi 
7/9/70 
- 2 -
Mr. Metzger and Miss Wolcott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
D. C. development bank bill. A request had been received 
from the Bureau of the Budget for the Board's views on a draft bill 
"To establish a District of Columbia Development Bank to mobilize the 
capital and the expertise of the private community to provide for an 
organized approach to the problems of economic development in the 
District of Columbia." 
In a memorandum dated July 6, 1970, the Legal Division 
recommended that the Board support the stated goals of the proposed 
legislation but suggest that further consideration be given to some 
aspects of the proposal, as discussed in a separate statement which 
could be forwarded to the Bureau of the Budget along with the Board's 
reply. 
Governor Brimmer summarized the background against which the 
proposed bill had evolved, following which discussion centered on 
questions such as whether the word "bank" should be included in the 
title of the organization, whether specialized experience should be 
required of appointees to the bank's management, and the extent to 
which investment in the development bank by commercial banks should 
be limited. 
Various suggestions were made for ways in which the 
draft letter and attached statement might be modified. 

7/9/70 
- 3 -
Unanimous approval was then given to a report to the Bureau of 
the Budget in the form attached as Item No. I. 
Marine Midland. Marine Midland Banks, Inc., Buffalo, New York, 
and The Dreyfus Corporation proposed to organize jointly a new cor-
poration to furnish investment advice, including portfolio management 
and related services, solely to Marine Midland and its banking sub-
sidiaries under written contract. 
Counsel for Marine Midland and Dreyfus Corporation had requested 
confirmation of their opinion that a purchase of up to 50 per cent of 
the voting shares of the new corporation by Marine Midland would not 
violate sections 20 and 21 of the Banking Act of 1933 and would be per-
missible under section 4(c)(1)(C) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
An equal amount of shares would be owned by Dreyfus. 
In a memorandum dated July 7, 1970, the Legal Division recommended 
that the Board express agreement with the opinion of counsel; however, 
in accordance with the Board's established policy, it was proposed that 
no position be taken with respect to section 21, which is a criminal 
statute. 
Following discussion, a letter to counsel for Marine Midland 
reflecting the Legal Division's recommendation was approved, Governor 
Maisel abstaining for personal reasons. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 2. 

2 0 t i 3 
7/9/70 
-4-
Silver coin as reserves. 
In a memorandum dated July 8, 1970, 
the Legal Division recommended an extension until August 10, 1970, 
of the time within which comments might be submitted on the proposed 
amendment to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, which would revise 
the definition of "currency and coin" so as to preclude member banks 
from counting as reserves coin held principally for its bullion or 
numismatic value. 
The Legal Division pointed out that substantial 
Congressional 
and public interest had been evidenced in the proposed amendment and 
several requests for an extension of time had been received. 
The 
Division suggested that additional time might also permit a more thor-
ough assessment of various aspects of the proposal, such as its effects 
on the silver market and the balance of payments. 
Following discussion, an extension of time until August 10 
within which comments might be submitted was approved unanimously. 
Assessment for Board expenses. 
In a memorandum dated July 7, 
1970, the Office of the Controller recommended that an assessment of 
.00802 per cent of the total paid-in capital and surplus of the Federal 
Reserve Banks as of June 30, 1970, be levied upon the Banks to meet the 
estimated expenses of the Board for the second half of 1970. Such an 
assessment would produce $10,868,000. 
The levying of the assessment was approved unanimously. 

2 0 6 4 
7/9/70 
-5-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Housing study. Unanimous approval was given to the recommen-
dation of the Division of Research and Statistics, concurred in by 
Governor Sherrill, that a contract be entered into with Professor H. 
Robert Bartell, Jr., for a study of comparative housing market perfor-
mance in selected metropolitan areas, at an estimated cost of $7,750. 
The resulting overexpenditure in the pertinent accounts of the 1970 
budget of the Division of Research and Statistics was also approved. 
Presidential Commission. 
In a letter dated June 29, 1970, 
the Director of Financial Studies of the Presidential Commission on 
Financial Institutions and Regulation had requested that the Board 
designate members of its staff to meet with him and representatives 
of the other bank supervisory agencies and the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board to consider the set-up and operation of four study groups whose 
formation had been approved by the Commission. 
Mr. Gramley reported on the meeting held yesterday, indicating 
that the proposed time schedule called for completion of the studies 
by September 30, with submission to the Commission in October. 
The 
objectives did not appear to be clearly defined, nor was it clear to 
what extent the Board would be asked to assist. 
However, it was ex-
pected that the Board would soon receive a list of subject areas with 
a request for an indication of work that had been done by the Federal 

ZO 65 
7/9/70 
-6-
Reserve in those areas, work presently under way, and additional re-
search that could be undertaken. 
The staff expressed doubt that such 
studies could be completed within the proposed time schedule and called 
attention to limited personnel resources. 
There was some discussion of appropriate strategy with respect 
to Board involvement, but it was agreed that no position should be 
taken until further information was available. 
Financial developments. Members of the staff reviewed latest 
developments in the commercial paper market, their comments indicating 
that in general conditions appeared to be improved. 
However, one of 
the major commercial paper issuers continued to experience difficulties, 
which raised the question whether conversations should be initiated 
looking toward the possible eventuality of lending under paragraph 3 
of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. Comments indicated a reluc-
tance on the part of the Board to take the initiative in establishing 
contact at this time. There was some discussion of the extent to 
which such a company should be required to dispose of assets before 
emergency credit could be extended, and staff pointed out that opera-
tional guidelines for conduit lending and paragraph 3 lending were 
being developed for the Board's consideration. 
Parsons Group banks. 
Governor Robertson reported that after 
the Board meeting yesterday afternoon, confirmation had been given to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago of its authority under an outstanding 

1/9/10 
- 7 -
Board letter to make an emergency "conduit" loan to the Birmingham-
Bloomfield Bank of Birmingham, Michigan, through Bank of the Common-
wealth, Detroit. However, the Reserve Bank had been told that any 
such loan should be made on a one-day basis, that the loan should be 
fully secured at market value, and that no profit should accrue to 
Bank of the Commonwealth. 
It developed, Governor Robertson said, that 
it was really Bank of the Commonwealth that was in trouble in meeting 
its clearings rather than Birmingham-Bloomfield Bank. When the pro-
posed conditions of the loan were made known to Bank of the Common-
wealth, they said they could cover all of their clearings except $5 
million. Accordingly, an advance was made to Bank of the Commonwealth 
on a one-day basis. A Federal Reserve Bank examiner had been placed in 
Bank of the Commonwealth and a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
examiner in the Birmingham Bank. 
Governor Robertson noted that the authority contained in the 
Board's letter of December 24, 1969, would expire at the end of this 
month and that at some stage the Board probably would want to extend 
that authority. 
Governor Robertson also said that the Board's staff was in the 
process of drawing together facts necessary to recommend a definite 
remedial program for Bank of the Commonwealth and was preparing a cease 
and desist order for the Board's consideration. 
He indicated that the 
package should be available for review by the Board within the near future. 

2067 
7/9/70 
-8-
In this connection reference was made to the guidelines for 
lending to nonmember banks contained in the Board's letter of March 17, 
1970, and it was understood that these guidelines would be reviewed by 
the staff in the event further questions should arise about extending 
Federal Reserve credit to nonmember banks in the Parsons Group. Also 
to be studied was the question of making any "conduit" loans through 
some bank other than Bank of the Commonwealth. 
Commercial paper. Reference was made to an article in today's 
New York Times in which reference was made to statistics on commercial 
paper outstanding which the Federal Reserve collected but did not re-
lease publicly. 
It was the view of the staff that the information had 
been made available to the press by one of the respondents. 
Following 
an explanation of the way in which these data were collected, there was 
some discussion of the question of releasing them regularly. 
It was 
understood that the question would be considered further by the staff. 
Treasury borrowing. Mr. Holland reported that the authority 
for direct borrowing by the Treasury from the Federal Reserve Banks had 
been allowed to lapse. 
S. 3889, which would extend the authority, had 
passed the Senate but had not been acted upon by the House. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

zma 
b o a r d of governor-5 
reserve system 
1 
' . 
WASHINGTON O.C. 205 51 
' « f f 
"' 
OFFICE OK THE VICE CHAIRMAN 
July 10, 1970 
S I P 
Mr. C. William Fischer, 
Assistant: Director for Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office Building, 
17ashington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Fischer: 
Your legislative referral memorandum of June 23, 1970, 
requests the Board's views with respect to a proposed bill "To 
establish a District of Columbia Development Bank to mobilize 
t:ae capital and the expertise. of the private community to provide 
lor au organized approach to the problems of economic development 
in the District of Columbia". 
The Board favors the stated goals of the proposed legis-
lation and recognizes the desirability of encouraging banks and 
private citizens Lo utilize their resources for the benefit of 
the economic development of the District of Columbia. 
In connection with the provisions of the bill that relate 
to the Board's responsibilities, it is noted that section 7(a) would 
authorize any bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance'cor-
poration to purchase the common stock of the District of Columbia 
Development Bank ("the Bank"), notwithstanding the provisions of 
any other statute. 
Section 7(a) sets no limitation on the" amount 
that may be purchased by a commercial bank and requires no approval 
by the authority that supervises such investing bank. 
The Board 
favors some broadening of the authority of banks (national as well 
as State) to purchase stock. 
However, the imposition of an 
appropriate limitation would serve to protect the depositors and 
the resources of the investing bank. 
For example, a commercial 
bank's authority to purchase stock of the Development Bank might 
be limited to 10 per cent of the commercial bank's capital and 
surplus. 

2069 
Mr. C. William Fischer 
-2 
You may be interested in the attached list of observations 
prepared by members of the Board's staff in connection with their 
consideration of this matter. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
Attachment 

2070 
Observations on 
A Bill to Establish a District of Columbia Development Bank 
1. 
Section 6(a) of the draft bill would enable the District 
of Columbia Development Bank ("the Bank") to purchase debt obligations 
and equity instruments. 
The section contains no restriction on the 
extent of debt or equity investments by tne Bank (other than the pro-
vision in section 8(a) limiting the aggregate amount of Bank obligations 
outstanding at any one time to 15 times the capital and surplus of the 
Bank). 
Perhaps a limitation on debt and equity investments (and on 
guarantees) by the Bank, based on a stated percentage of Bank's capital 
and surplus would be appropriate, as a protection for the Bank's 
financial condition. A provision for restricting the amount that the 
Bank may lend to, or invest in, any one enterprise may warrant con-
sideration. 
It is not intended to suggest that the size of the 
enterprise to be assisted by the Bank should be restricted; rather, 
the intent is to suggest a measure of protection for the Bank's 
resources, which could be effected by limiting the Bank's investments 
(in the aggregate or to a particular project) to an appropriate per-
centage of its capital and surplus. 
2. 
Subscriptions for bank stock ($1,000 par value) appear 
to be intended for large investors, including banks. To the extent 
that directors or officers of commercial banks (or other businesses) 
would serve on the Bank's board, opportunities for favoring a partic-
ular commercial bank (or other business) would be likely to arise. 
This aspect might be controlled to some extent by adding to the draft 
bill provisions regarding the duties, obligations, and liabilities of 
directors and officers of the Bank; a requirement for examination or 
supervision of the Bank by a banking authority (perhaps the Comptroller 
of the Currency); a provision for penalties for violation of the terms 
of the Act; and a definition of the "sound and prudent development 
banking principles" referred to in section 6(a) . 
3. Provisions for a minimum capital requirement for the 
Bank; for effecting an increase in its capital; and provisions 
regarding the sale, transfer, or pledging of Bank stock are 
suggested for consideration. 
4. 
Section 6(e) requires that the Bank "shall be operated 
on a businesslike basis, with the objective of assuring a reasonable 
return on the funds invested . . . ." This provision may operate to 
frustrate the intent expressed in section 2(b) to the effect that 

2071 
- 2 -
the Bank "concentrate on1assisting economic development projects that 
have difficulty in obtaining necessary financial resources . . . 
I. including] innovative or other uncommon ventures, special risk 
situations, projects of unusually large scale . . . ." Also, the 
above-quoted provision of section 6(e) appears to be not wholly 
compatible with the provisions in section 7(b) of the bill that limit 
dividends to 6 per cent payable out of not earnings for a particular 
year and only if the Bank has no outstanding borrowings from the 
Treasury at the Lime of the dividend declaration or payment.. 
5. 
If it is intended that loans and equity investments made 
by the Bank be limited to projects for the economic development of the 
District of Columbia, such a provision should be added to section 6. 
6. Section 6(a), in authorizing the Bank to purchase equity 
instruments, appears to limit the Bank to equity instruments issued 
by an "obligor". 
Perhaps the word "issuer" was intended rather than 
the word "obligor". 
7. 
Section 7(a) provides that "any part of the remaining 
amount of each subscription shall be paid into the Bank in two 
equal annual instalments". 
The words "any part of" appear to be 
superfluous. 
8. 
It is suggested that the bill provide for funds and 
personnel to implement the organisation process. 

2072 
B O A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
G K T H E 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/9/70 
WASl-lINGTON, D. C. 2G551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R C fcr P D N L> K N C I 
TI3 
T M t ! 
U U A R D 
July 9 3 1970. 
Sullivan & Cromwell, 
48 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Attention: Hamilton F. Potter, Jr., Esq. 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letters dated Hay 5, 1970 and 
June 23, 1970 requesting confirmation of your opinion that the 
acquisition of up to 50 per cent of the voting shares of a new 
corporation (referred to herein as "Marine-Dreyfus") by Marine 
Midland Banks, Inc., a holding company registered under the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 3 956, will not violate sections 20 or 21 
of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 377 and 378) and is permis-
sible under section 4(c)(1)(C) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956. 
Marine Midland Banks, Inc. ("Marine Midland") and The 
Dreyfus Corporation ("Dreyfus") propose to organize jointly a new 
corporation ("Marine-Dreyfus") to furnish investment advice, 
including portfolio management and related services, solely to 
Marine Midland and its banking subsidiaries under written contract. 
It is expected that companies with pension funds in excess of 
$5 million for which Marine Midland Grace Trust Company of New York 
and other banking subsidiaries of Marine Midland act as trustees 
will contract to receive from the banks investment advisory services 
as supplied by Marine-Dreyfus. 
These services will include making 
day-to-day investment decisions and supervising transaction execu-
tions. Most of these companies will also receive custodial, admin-
istrative, and other services from the banks. 
In addition, to companies with large pension funds, it is 
expected that other customers of the Marine Midland banking subsid-
iaries for whom Marine-Dreyfus will render services will be collec-
tive pension funds presently advised by such subsidiary banks and 
Marinvest, S.A. (an overseas investment advisor to Marine Midland 
Investment Fund, S.A., an overseas fund) which is presently advised 
by Marine Midland Grace Trust. Company of New York. 
I I I P » ; 
•f^LRF.:^-

Sullivan & Cromwell 
- 2 -
2073 
The only advertising presently contemplated is a joint 
announcement by Marine Midland and Dreyfus of the formation of the 
new corporation to render investment advisory services to customers 
of Marine Midland and its banking subsidiaries. Future advertising 
would not be directed to the general public in a way that would 
imply the new investment advisory service is available to persons 
who are not customers of Marine Midland or its banking subsidiaries. 
Marine Midland and Dreyfus will have an equal voice in the 
management of the new company and at no time will a majority of the 
Board of Directors of Marine-Dreyfus be comprised of officers, direc-
tors, or employees of Marine Midland, or its banking subsidiaries, 
on the one hand, or Dreyfus, on the other. Each will have one or 
more of its officers, directors, or employees as officers, directors, 
or employees of the jointly-owned corporation, although it is expected 
that more than half of the officers, directors, or employees will not 
be officers, directors, or employees of Marine Midland or its banking 
subsidiaries or of Dreyfus. 
Based on its understanding of the information presented, 
the Board has concluded that the acquisition of up to 50 per cent of 
the voting shares of Marine-Dreyfus by Marine Midland would not vio-
late section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933. Further, on the assump-
tion that all of the services to be performed by Marine-Dreyfus are 
of the kinds Marine Midland's subsidiary banks may render for their 
customers under applicable Federal or State law, the Board concluded 
that the acquisition of voting shares of Marine-Dreyfus by Marine 
Midland is permissible under section 4(c)(1)(C) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 as an acquisition of shares of a company engaged 
solely in furnishing services to a bank holding company or its bank-
ing subsidiaries. 
No opinion is, however, expressed with respect to 
the applicability of section 21 of the Banking Act of 1933 to the 
proposed relationship; since section 21 is a criminal statute, the 
Board has followed the policy of not expressing views as to its mean-
ing (1965 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1410; 12 CFR 218.111). 
It should, of course, be noted that any substantial change 
in the facts that have been presented might require reexamination of 
the Board's position. 
A copy of this letter is also being sent to Reavis & McGrath, 
counsel to The Dreyfus Corporation, which, as you know, has also re-
quested an opinion of the Board with respect to the subject transaction. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Depu ty Secretary. 
