PTRP 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 10, 1969 
I 
I 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 10, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Report on financial developments. With a memorandum dated 
November 6, 1969, from the Division of Research and Statistics, there 

. 11/10/69 
-2-
had been distributed a draft of report on financial developments in 
the third quarter of 1969 for transmittal to the Joint Economic Committee 
in accordance with the usual procedure. 
After discussion, during which the inclusion of certain explana-
tory material was agreed upon, unanimous approval was given to the 
sending of the report to the Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. 
A copy of the transmittal letter is attached as Item No. 1; a copy of 
the report has been placed in the Board's files. 
Amendment to Regulation R. Section 32 of the Banking Act of 
1933 prohibits interlocking personnel relationships between member banks 
and securities companies, but authorizes the Board to provide exemptions 
upon determining that such exemptions will not unduly influence the 
investment policies of the banks or the investment advice given to bank 
customers. Accordingly, Regulation R (Relationships with Dealers in 
Securities under Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933) provided an 
exemption for relationships between member banks and those securities 
companies that confined their underwriting (and other activities engaged 
in as principal rather than agent) to securities specified in the regu-
lation. 
In 1967 the Board published for comment a proposed amendment 
that would add to the list of securities in section 218.2 of Regulation R 
general obligations of States and political subdivisions. The effect of 
the amendment would have been to permit interlocking relationships between 

. 11/10/69 
-3-
member banks and securities firms that handle only securities that 
member banks themselves are permitted to underwrite under section 5136 
of the U.S. Revised Statutes. Comments received were reviewed by the 
Legal Division, and there was a preliminary discussion at the Board 
meeting on June 22, 1967, but no decision was made. 
Discount Corporation, New York, New York, had now requested 
that active consideration again be given to the 1967 proposal (which 
had grown out of a previous request from that corporation). In a memo-
randum dated October 20, 1969, the Legal Division summarized the issues 
involved and raised the further question whether there should be added 
to the list of securities in section 218.2 of Regulation R (1) obliga-
tions of the Government National Mortgage Association, and (2) so-called 
"revenue obligations" of States or political subdivisions for housing, 
university, or dormitory purposes that are eligible for purchase by a 
national bank for its own account. The memorandum noted that national 
banks were permitted to underwrite and deal in those obligations by 
the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968. 
In a memorandum dated October 13, 1969, Mr. Hexter concluded that 
the Board possessed the authority to expand the exemptive provisions 
of Regulation R to the extent presently under consideration. Accordingly, 
the question resolved itself into one of policy. As alternatives, it 
was suggested that the Board could (1) adopt the proposal published for 
comment in 1967, thereby enabling securities companies to deal in State 

. 11/10/69 
-4-
and local government obligations (but no revenue bonds) while retaining 
bank directors among their personnel; (2) without further publication 
for comment, amend Regulation R to exempt not only general obligations 
but also revenue bonds for housing, university, or dormitory purposes 
that are eligible for bank investment; (3) republish for comment a 
proposal to expand the exempt list in Regulation R to include both 
general obligations and such revenue bonds; or (4) withdraw the 1967 
proposal and amend Regulation R by adding only Government National 
Mortgage Association obligations to the exempt list. It was also 
suggested that if the Board preferred the second or the third alternative, 
it might wish to drop the specific enumeration in Regulation R in favor 
of a general reference to all securities eligible for underwriting by 
national banks. In this event, exempt categories would automatically 
expand or contract whenever Congress amended the relevant portion of 
section 5136 of the Revised Statutes unless the Board took affirmative 
action to the contrary. 
Following remarks by Mr. Shay, comments indicated that members 
of the Board were favorably inclined toward extending the exemptions 
in Regulation R to include both general obligations and the specified 
revenue bonds. A preference was also expressed for omitting specific 
enumeration of exemptions from the regulation in favor of a general 
statement that would tie in with securities that might lawfully be 
underwritten and dealt in by national banks. 

n .it or-
. 11/10/69 
-5-
In response to questions from members of the Board, Mr. Solomon 
commented on problems that might arise from the bank supervisory stand-
point if such interlocks were permitted, but it was not believed that 
such considerations were of overriding importance. 
Question was raised whether the proposed amendment to Regulation R 
should be published in the Federal Register for comment, and it was agreed 
that no useful purpose would be served. It was pointed out that a 
proposal to bring within the regulatory exemption general obligations 
of a State or political subdivision had been outstanding since 1967, and 
in addition such obligations had long been eligible for underwriting and 
dealing in by member banks. It was also noted that on previous occasions 
when Congress had expanded the types of securities in which a bank might 
lawfully deal, the Board had amended the regulation to include them in 
the exempt list without publishing for comment. 
The amendment to Regulation R was then approved unanimously, 
effective January 1, 1970. A copy of the amendment as transmitted to 
the Federal Register is attached under Item No. 2, along with a copy of 
the relevant press release. 
Cincinnati Branch building program. In a memorandum dated 
November 5, 1969, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations commented 
on the request of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, as set forth in 
a letter from President Hickman dated October 23, 1969, for authority to 
award construction contracts for the proposed Cincinnati Branch building. 

. 11/10/69 
-6-
The request, based on a resolution adopted by the Reserve Bank's 
Board of Directors, reflected a strong desire on the part of the 
Cleveland and Cincinnati directors to proceed with the project at 
this time. 
The Division also pointed out that the low bidder for the 
heating subcontract had neglected to include certain labor costs in 
his bid, which was considerably lower than the second lowest bid. 
Upon discovery of the error, the subcontractor had requested that his 
bid not be considered unless he would thereby be required to forfeit 
his bid bond. The Reserve Bank's architects and mechanical engineers 
recommended that the request be granted, but the directors voted to 
accept the low bid on the heating work, basing this decision on the 
belief that it would be difficult to justify the acceptance of a bid 
15 per cent above the lowest bid on a public structure. However, it 
was the consensus of the directors that if a private corporation were 
involved, it might be advisable to accept the second lowest bid. Upon 
inquiry, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations discovered that 
in connection with the construction of Federal buildings, General Services 
Administration had developed a procedure for releasing contractors from 
bids without forfeiture of bonds in instances where GSA was satisfied 
that such contractors had made honest errors in compiling bid prices. 
The Division recommended that, if the Board concurred in the 
position taken by the Cleveland and Cincinnati directors with respect to 

. 11/10/69 
-7-
the timeliness of the proposed construction, the Reserve Bank be 
authorized to award appropriate contracts with the understanding 
that the 1 ow bidder for the heating subcontract would be released 
from his bid without forfeiture of bond. 
Some reservations were expressed by members of the Board 
as to whether the Reserve Bank had given sufficient weight to policy-
considerations in requesting authority to proceed with the proposed 
construction at this time, but it was the consensus that no further 
objection should be interposed to the awarding of construction contracts. 
It was also the consensus that the decision with respect to the heating 
subcontract should be left to the discretion of the Bank's directors, 
although it would be appropriate to bring the procedures followed by 
GSA in similar circumstances to their attention. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a telegram to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
Meeting with ABA Committee. As indicated in a memorandum dated 
October 31, 1969, from the Office of the Secretary, a meeting of the 
Board with members of the American Bankers Association's Committee on 
Federal Bank Regulatory Structure had been scheduled for 10:30 a.m. today. 
A list of questions proposed for discussion had been submitted by the 
Committee. 
Chairman Martin commented that he had been the recipient of an 
invitation to visit the Committee and talk with them, but that he had 
refused the invitation and instead a meeting with the Board as a whole 
had been set up. 

4010/69 
- 8 -
There was general agreement that expressions of individual 
views should not be aired at today's meeting and that any effort to 
poll or divide the Board should be forestalled. Reservations were 
expressed by some members of the Board as to the appropriateness of 
discussing several of the Committee's questions until the Board had 
had an opportunity to reach a collective judgment on the issues involved. 
In this connection, it was suggested that the Chairman, or an individual 
Board member designated by the Chairman, should act as spokesman on the 
respective topics. It was generally agreed that the tone of today's 
meeting should be amicable and debate should be avoided. It should be 
known that the Board was concerned about doing a good job in discharging 
its responsibilities and would be interested in the Committee's comments. 
However, no Board position would be taken on individual questions except 
where such a position had already been established on record. 
The meeting then adjourned 
Secretary 

3 1 * 
U I 9 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 Q S B I 
Item No. 1 
11/10/69 
OFFICE: O F THC 
C H A I R M A N 
November 13, 1969. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Joint Economic Committee, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chair ran: 
In accordance with the arrangements previously made 
with your committee, I am transmitting herewith a staff report 
°n financial developments in the third quarter of 1969. 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 

' 
fe ft ip, if jfe ./,-. 
<& jf£ 
jc 
Jfa-w J 
; 
J©:-}! fr. ii 
i'r (s.-iii'i.'-o. 
Item No. 2 
11/10/69 
immediate release. 
November 18, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today an amendment: to its Regulation R which governs the relationships 
between member banks and securities dealers. 
The amendment, effective January 1, will permit an officer, 
director or employee of a member bank to be an officer, director or em-
ployee of a securities company that confines itself to underwriting and 
dG^ling in securities a member bank may lawfully underwrite. 
Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 prohibits interlocking 
Personnel relationships between member banks anJ securities companies but 
that law also authorizes the Board to provide exemptions upon determining 
that they would not unduly influence the investment policies of: the banks 
01 the investment advice given to bank customers. Regulation R presently 
Provides an exemption for relationships between member banks and those 
securities companies that confine their business to the types of obligations 
listed in the Regulation. Not all obligations a member bank may underwrite 
are within the Regulation R exemption in its present form. The effect of 
^ e amendment is <:o bring within the Regulation R exemption general obli-
gations of a state or political subdivision, obligations of the Government 
National Mortgage Association and obligations issued by a state or political 
subdivision (or their agencies) for housing, university or dormitory 
Purposes. 
-0-
Attachment 

ojttjl 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. R] 
PART 2lo--RELATIONSHIPS WITH DEALERS IN SECURITIES 
UNDER SECTION 32, BANKING ACT OF 1933 
f
\ ' --v 
' • 
Exceptions 
\ 
1. Effective January 1, 1970, 5 213,?. is amended to read as 
set forth below. The footnotes to § 213.2 are unchanged, except for 
the addition of a new footnote 4. 
5 218.2 Exceptions. 
Pursuant; tc the authority vested in it by section 32, the Board 
_ 
2/ 
OS Governors of the Federal Reserve System hereby grants permission™ for 
any officer, director, or employee of any member bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, unless otherwise prohibited,"^ to be at the same time an 
officer, director, or employee of any corporation or unincorporated 
association, a partner or employee of any partnership, or an individual 
engaged in the is.sue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribu-
tion, 
at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, of 
°nly such securities as national banks may lawfully underwrite and deal 
in pursuant to paragraph Seventh of section 513»>, Revised Statutes 
(12 U.S.C, 24)~/. 
2/ 
No change. 
3/ No change. 
fi/ Made applicable to State member banks by paragraph 20 of section 9 
°f the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S«C6 335). 

2a. Briefly, section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933, as 
amended (12 U,S,C. 78), prohibits interlocking personnel relationships 
between member banks of the Federal Reserve System and firms or organ-
izations primarily engaged in underwriting, dealing in, or distributing 
securities (referred to herein as "securities companies"). The statute 
authorizes the Board to provide exemptions therefrom by general regula-
tion upon determining that to do so would not unduly influence the 
investment policies of the banks or the advice they give their customers 
regarding investments. Section 218.2 of Part 218 (Regulation R) 
presently exempts such relationships between member banks and those 
securities companies that confine their business to the types of 
obligations listed therein. All such obligations may be underwritten 
or dealt in by national banks pursuant to paragraph Seventh of 
section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24), the provisions of 
which are made applicable to State member banks by Paragraph 20, 
section 9, of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.3.C, 335)* However, not 
al.]. obligations that member banks may underwrite or deal in under 
those statutes are included in section 218.2 in its present form. 
This amendment to section 218.2 expands the coverage of its exemption 
to permit interlocking personnel relationships between member banks 
and securities companies so long as such companies limit their 
section 32 activities to securities eligible under section 5136 for 
member banks, themselves, to deal in or underwrite, The effect of 
this amendment broadening section 218.2 is to bring within its exemption 
general obligations of any State or of any political subdivision thereof, 

obligations of the Government National Mortgage Association, and 
obligations issued by any State or political subdivision or any agency 
of a State or political subdivision for housing, university or dormi-
tory purposes, which are eligible for purchase by a national bank for 
its own account. The first class of obligations has long been eligible 
^•uv Av- 
c«,:;'/ 'v. A;;., 
for underwriting and dealing in by member banks, and the latter two 
classes became eligible upon enactment of the Housing and Urban 
Development Act of 1968, sections 807(j) and 1705(h). 
b. A notice of proposed rule making and invitation for 
Public participation relative to the broadening of section 210.2 to 
cover general obligations of any State or of any political subdivision 
thereof was published in the Federal Register (32 FR 5849). Further 
such procedure was not followed in connection with this amendment, 
which operates to relieve restrictions otherwise applicable, because, 
in the circumstances, such procedure would serv^ no useful purpose. 
The amendment was adopted by the Board of Governors after considera-
fcion of all relevant material, including communications pursuant to 
fche notice of proposed rule making specified abrtve; and as previously 
indicated, the Board has deferred the effective date of the amendment 
January 1, 1970. 
By order of the Board of Covernors* November 10, 1969. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary.. 
(SEAL) 

T E L E G R A M 
T. 
„ 
LFASED WIRE SERVICE 
i t e m iNO . 
BOARD OF' GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
n / 1 0 / 6 9 
WASHINGTON 
November 10, 1969 
'Board qi: 
. ir.hu Federal Reserve Sy 
HICKMAN - CLEVELAND 
Board approves awarding of appropriate contracts for the 
construction of the new building for the Cincinnati Branch, as 
described in >eur letter of October 23, but would net object to 
excusing the Kuempel Company and taking the second lowest bidder 
for heating, piping, refrigeration, and generators. Board notes 
that in connection with construction of Federal buildings, General 
Services Administration has procedures for releasing a contractor 
from his bid without forfeiture of bond in instances where GSA is 
satisfied that such contractor made an honest error in compiling 
his bid price. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KENYON 
