MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 17, 1972 

2155 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 17, 1972. 
The Board met in the Board Room 
at 11:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. 
The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. 
Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas on August 10, 1972, of the rates on 
discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved, unan-
imously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to those Banks. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on J u l y 27, 1972, of the applications of The Alabama Financial Group, 
1/ Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

2156 
8/17/72 
-2-
Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successors by merger 
t o (1) The First National Bank of Dothan, Dothan, Alabama, and (2) 
Peoples National Bank of Huntsville, Huntsville, Alabama. 
A copy of 
the order is attached under Item No. 1, along with a dissenting statement 
o f Governors Robertson and Brimmer with respect to the acquisition of 
The First National Bank of Dothan. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
July 27, 1972, of the application of Central and State National Corpo-
r ation of Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of Peoples 
B ank and Trust Company, Montgomery, Alabama. 
A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
0r* July 27, 1972, of the applications of Alabama Bancorporation, 
Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of (1) The American National 
Bank & Trust Company of Mobile, Mobile, Alabama, and (2) First National 
B ank of Decatur, Decatur, Alabama. 
A copy of the order is attached 
U nder Item No. 3, along with a dissenting statement of Governors Robertson 
an<3 Brimmer. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Central and 
State National Corporation of Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire 
shares of The Citizens' Bank of Eufaula, Eufaula, Alabama, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 4. 

2157 
8/17/72 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved a letter to First Texas Bancshares 
Corporation, Houston, Texas, permitting it to continue to hold shares of 
M~G, Inc., a nonbanking company acquired without prior approval of the 
Board. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Exchange 
National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, to retain all of the stock 
o f Exchange-Israel Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, and for Exchange-Israel 
Corporation to acquire all of the stock of three trust companies to be 
formed in Tel Aviv, Israel. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
i s attached as Item No. 6. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Barnett Banks of Florida. 
In a memorandum dated August 9, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
applications of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, 
t o acquire shares of Westchester National Bank of Dade County, Miami, 
Florida, and Midway National Bank, Miami, Florida. 
The Banking Markets 
Action recommended approval, while the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
recommended denial. 
After a discussion devoted primarily to the premiums the appli-
cant proposed to pay stockholders, the applications were approved unan-
imously. 
It was understood that an order reflecting that decision 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting at this point. 

2158 
8/17/72 
First at Orlando Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated August 1, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of 
the application of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to 
acquire shares of The Seminole Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida. 
The 
Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta also 
recommended denial. 
The Board unanimously denied the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
Citizens Investment Company. 
In memoranda dated May 4, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
applications of Citizens Investment Company, Thornton, Colorado, to 
acquire shares of North Valley State Bank, Thornton, Colorado, and to 
engage in the insurance activities conducted by North Investment Company, 
also of Thornton. 
Additional documentation included a memorandum from 
Mr. Leavitt dated May 15, 19 72, recommending approval even though the 
acquisition debt involved in the proposal would equal 86 per cent of 
the holding company's net worth; and a memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation and the Legal Division dated August 16, 1972, 
calling attention to the fact that the applicant was not making the 
same offer to all shareholders. 
At today's meeting there was a discussion as to whether the 
applicant was making an equal offer to all shareholders. 
The staff 

2159 
8/17/72 
-5-
indicated that it was difficult to determine whether there had been 
an equal offer because of the problem in trying to equate the market 
value of applicant's shares received by minority shareholders of 
North Valley State Bank with the cash received by dissenting directors 
for their shares of the bank. 
In this instance there was no way of 
Predicting accurately the market value of applicant's shares. 
Reference 
was made to another case (application of Bank Securities, Inc., Alamogordo, 
New Mexico, to acquire First National Bank of Portales, New Mexico) in 
which the Board concluded earlier this year that the proposed offer to 
minority shareholders was "substantially equal" to that given the bank's 
original majority shareholders and therefore was in the public interest. 
Members of the Board continued to feel that it was unreasonable to 
insist that offers to all shareholders be arithmetically equal; if they 
were substantially equal, that should suffice. 
In the instant case it 
appeared that the offer of Citizens Investment Company was probably 
somewhat less than substantially equal and for that reason staff of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation now recommended denial. 
On the 
other hand, the Legal Division recommended approval on the basis of a 
number of unusual circumstances that were described by Mr. O'Connell. 
The Board approved the applications, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
It was understood that an order reflecting that decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. 
It was also understood that Governor 
Brimmer's approval was conditioned upon the terms on which the decision 
Would be supported in the order. 

2160 
8/17/72 
-6-
All members of the staff except Messrs, Melnicoff and Smith 
withdrew at this point. 
Compensation of officer at Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Governor Sheehan said that the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco was very anxious to reward Mr. A. B. Merritt, 
First Vice President, for his services as Acting President during the 
Period in which the President's office was vacant. 
The Board of Directors 
Proposed a supplemental payment for Mr. Merritt at the President's rate 
°f pay for the period he acted as President. 
Chairman Burns indicated 
that he preferred an appropriate increase in salary rather than a lump-
sum payment. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he believed strongly that no 
additional payment should be given to Mr. Merritt, since it was expected 
that the First Vice President would perform as Acting President in 
situations in which there was no President and that this had happened 
m any times. 
Furthermore, any special treatment afforded Mr. Merritt 
at this time would be in violation of the regular review procedure 
followed for salaries of First Vice Presidents of Federal Reserve Banks. 
After further discussion it was agreed, Governor Brimmer dissenting, 
that Governor Sheehan would discuss with the Bank's Board of Directors 
a proposal for an increase in Mr. Merritt's annual salary not in excess 
°f $2,500 and that the matter would be again brought before the Board 
for consideration when a figure had been agreed upon. 

ztm 
8/17/72 
-7-
At the conclusion of the discussion of this item appropriate 
members of the staff returned to the meeting. 
Justice Department request. 
The Justice Department had requested 
Permission to examine branch applications of State member banks received 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco since January 1, 1969, to 
determine the areas that California banks considered to be the best 
locations for expansion by branching. 
The request was submitted in 
connection with pending litigation to enjoin the merger between Wells 
F a r g o Bank, National Association, San Francisco, California, and First 
A s t e r n Bank and Trust Company, Los Angeles, California. 
The Comptroller 
o f the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had received 
similar requests with respect to branch applications from California 
banks received by those agencies. 
In a memorandum dated August 15, 1972, 
the Legal Division discussed alternative courses of action that the 
B°ard might follow. 
Today's discussion developed a consensus for making the requested 
^formation available to the Department after notifying banks whose 
aPplications were to be examined and informing them of the nature and 
Sc°pe of the examination. 
In the event that a bank requested that 
certain information not be made available and Reserve Bank counsel believed 
that the information fell within the exemptions from disclosure in the 
B°ard's Rules Regarding Availability of Information, the request for 

Z1G2 
8/17/72 
-8-
nondisclosure would be transmitted to the General Counsel of the Board 
appropriate action. 
The inspection of applications would take 
Place under the supervision of appropriate officials of the Reserve Bank. 
The Board thereup on approved the Justice Department's request, 
subj ect to the conditions agreed upon at today's meeting. 
A copy of the 
letter notifying the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco of approval 
°f the request is attached as Item No. 8. 
Boston building. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had requested 
a Ruling from the Massachusetts Commissioner of Corporations and Taxation 
that the Bank would be exempt under Federal law and State statute from 
sales tax on building materials and supplies to be used in the construction 
°f its new building. 
The Commissioner had denied the request on grounds 
that the building would not be used exclusively for public purposes, 
since the Bank proposed to lease a portion of it. 
The Bank's Board of 
directors was opposed to paying the sales tax in light of the specific 
exemptions in section 7 of the Federal Reserve Act and recommended that 
the Bank seek relief through litigation if necessary. 
Mr. O'Connell 
requested the Board's guidance in this matter. 
Members of the Board indicated that they would interpose no 
objection to litigation if it were absolutely necessary. 
However, they 
w°uld prefer that this matter be dealt with informally. 
It was understood that Governor Sheehan would consult with 
Reserve Bank President Morris about the possibility of informal action. 

2163 
8/17/72 
-9-
A copy of the letter sent to the Reserve Bank after Governor Sheehan's 
conversation with President Morris is attached as Item No. 9. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2164 
Item No. 1 
8/17/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE ALABAMA FINANCIAL GROUP, INC., 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
The Alabama Financial Group, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, a 
b»nk holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h « applied f o r the Board's approval under 8 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C, 
l8Z>2(a)(3)) to acquire the successors by merger to (1) The First 
^ional Bank of Dothan, Dothan, Alabama ("Dothan Bank") and (2) Peoples 
National Bank of Huntsville, Huntsville, Alabama ("Huntsville Bank"). 
The banks into which Dothan Bank and Huntsville Bank are to be merged 
have no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition 
0 f voting shares of Dothan Bank and Huntsville Bank. Accordingly, the 
Prosed acquisitions are treated herein as the proposed acquisitions 
o £ the shares of Dothan Bank and Huntsville Bank. 
Notice of the applications affording opportunity for interested 
P<*sons to submit comments and views has been given in accordance with 
8 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
the Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
lt> light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank with aggregate deposits of 
"^Proximately $357 million, representing about 6.8 per cent of deposits 
commercial banks in Alabama.17 Consummation of both proposals would 
A' All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, with the exception of 
data for the Huntsville Market where the data are as of June 30, 1970. 

-2- 
2165 
increase Applicant's share of deposits by 1.5 per cent so that Applicant 
VOuld control 8.3 per cent of deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
such an increase would not be significant in terms of the concentration 
banking resources in Alabama. 
D o t h a n Bank (deposits of about $55 m i l l i o n ) is the largest bank 
. 
2/ 
l n the D o t h a n m a r k e t , w i t h approximately 54 per cent of market deposits. 
HuntSviue Bank (deposits of about $21 million) is the fourth largest of 
8i* banks in the Huntsville market, with about 9.3 per cent of market 
d QPosi t sr f 
Due to Alabama's branching laws and the distances between 
applicant's Birmingham location and Huntsville and Dothan, which are, 
tespectively, over 100 and about 200 miles distant, there is no sub-
st«ntial existing competition between Applicant, Dothan Bank and Huntfl-
V t l le Bank. 
The Department of Justice filed comments with regard to both 
Pr°Posals. in the Department's view, there are only a relatively few 
b a*Uing organizations in Alabama, including this Applicant, that are 
sl8nificant potential entrants into all markets in the State. The 
D ePartment found the Dothan market to be highly concentrated and 
c°nsidered it important that Applicant enter the market through some 
^ s other than by acquisition of the "dominant" bank. Affiliation 
°f ^than Bank, the twelfth largest banking organization in Alabama, 
V l th Appiicant w o uld also eliminate the former as a member of 
atl°ther possible Statewide or regional banking group. For these 
2/ 
^ 
The D o t h a n banking market is approximated bj the city of Dothan. 
^ 
T h e H u n t s v i l l e banking market is approximated by M a d i s o n County. 

216? 
-3-
6as°ns» the Department concluded that the acquisition of Dothan Bank 
° U l d h ave a substantially adverse effect on competition. 
The Department viewed Applicant as one of the two roost likely 
ants into the Huntsville market, where the three largest banks 
° n t r o 1 approximately 79 per cent of total commercial deposits and, 
ttyO 0f . , 
the four largest holding companies in Alabama are already present. 
6 department concluded that Huntsville Bank's affiliation with 
^Pplic 
cant would have an adverse effect on competition. 
Applicant replied to the Department's comments by stating that 
6 D°than market was not attractive for de novo entry. Applicant 
Point . 
e a to such indicia as population and deposits per banking office, 
CaPita income, and the moderate population growth in Dothan as 
° n s supporting this view. Since each of the two other banks 
bartered in Dothan had existing relationships with other holding 
es> there was no other means available for Applicant to enter 
thts 
^tket. Moreover, Applicant asserted that Dothan Bank was not 
A e of serving as a lead bank for a new holding company due to its 
Gness and relatively small size. 
Since Huntsville Bank ranks as the fourth largest of six banks 
in th 
e Huntsville market and must compete with much larger organiza-
tio*a A 
» Applicant viewed the proposed acquisition of Huntsville Bank 
58 Pto 
c°iupetitive in that more vigorous competition would result, 
The record indicates that the Dothan market is not attractive 
«S2vo entry. Population per banking office is considerably 
u n e comparable State ratio, while deposits per banking office are 

2167 
-4-
tilt! 
0 iess than the State average. Moreover, the Dothan market had only 
derate population growth during the last decade. The Board, therefore, 
C°ncludes that Applicant is not a likely de novo entrant into this market. 
It: ^rther appears that there is no likelihood that Applicant could 
6nt(* She City of Dothan other than through acquisition of Dothan Bank. The 
0 °ther banks in Dothan have existing relationships with other bank 
h°lding companies; a pending application from a holding company seeks 
to acquire one of these banks, 
the Huntsville market, deposits per banking office are well 
w the State average. Although the market!s population growth during 
the l 
Aast decade was high, this growth has leveled off substantially from 
1965 u 
c° 1970. Thus, the Board views the Huntsville market as an 
Utlattv 
r U 
^active market for de novo entry at this time. Acquisition of the 
ntsville Bank, fourth largest of six banks in the market, could 
at j. 
en8then Bank's competitive position. The three larger banks in the 
tSqj., 
et are substantially larger than Huntsville Bank and two of them 
already affiliated with the second and third largest holding 
Sanies i n Alabama. The proposal offers Applicant the opportunity 
to in 
"^ease Huntsville Bank's ability to compete with these larger 
Nations and would, therefore, be procompetitive. For these reasons, 
th* Bo 
°°ard concludes that the acquisition of both Dothan Bank and 
K t 
S u 
8 v i U e Bank are consistent with competitive considerations. 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
C a nt, its subsidiary bank and Huntsville Bank are regarded as 

-5-
2163 
generally satisfactory, and these considerations are consistent with 
aPproval of the application. On the otbur hand, Applicant proposes to 
Provide needed management depth for Dothan Bank so that banking consid-
as regards the acquisition of Dothan Bank lend weight for approval 
of ^ e application. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
n e e d s of the communities of Dothan and Huntsville are consistent with 
aPProval of the two applications. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transactions are in the public interest and that the applications 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
t h e reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
^is Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
° r d er, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
b y the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority, 
fty order of the Board of Governors,—^ effective August 17, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
A p p r o v a l of acquisition of First National Bank of Dothan. 
s£tln8 for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell and 
^ e ehan. voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
b8e*t and not voting: Governors Daane and Bucher. 
v 
A P p r o v a l o f acquisition of Peoples National Bank of Huntsville. 
i?*1** for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
A1tchell, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors 
and Bucher. 

2169 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We concur in the majorityfs approval of the acquisition by 
pPUcant of Peoples National Bank of Huntsville. However, we would 
not an 
approve the acquisition of The First National Bank of Dothan 
("Dothan Bank"). 
At present, there are only four existing Statewide bank holding 
B l P a n i e s in Alabama, Applicant is one of them. As the Department of 
C e suggested, these holding companies must be considered the most 
i k e l y t o enter the Dothan market, both in light of objective circum-
and by the expressed intent of the companies themselves. 
®**ket 
We are confronted here with a dominant bank in a concentrated 
being acquired by one of a small number of potential entrants 
lnt0 t h . 
n at market. The Courts have ruled in comparable cases that such 
^isition violates Section 7 of the Clayton Act. (F.T.C. v. Proctor 
^ U ^ o , . 
et al.t 386 U.S. 568 (1967), and General Foods Corp. v. 
386 F.(2nd) 936 (3rd Cir. 1968), cert, denied 391 U.S. 919 
<1968», The Board took a similar position in First Financial Corpora-
l9?2 Fed. Res. Bulletin 480. In our view, the acquisition of 
H h a n Bank by Applicant falls squarely within the framework of these 
P t*Ho u a Positions and should be denied. 
Another factor in our consideration is the fact that Dothan Bank 
n o longer be a likely member of an additional Statewide holding 
N a 
f«ur 
n y if this application is approved. There are presently only 
St-atewide holding companies in the entire State of Alabama. We 
^ 
to u 
Keep open avenues for the formation of additional bank 

h°lding companies in order to provide the degree of competition in the 
banking field that is compatible with the public interest. Approval of 
the acquisition of a bank the size of Dothan Bank—the twelfth largest 
in fche State—inhibits the formation of alternative holding companies. 
Unless we are content to let Alabama be divided among a handful of 
°rSanizations-
-perhaps no more than four—which we think would not be 
Coilsotiant, with the responsibilities imposed on the Board by the Bank 
H°lding company Act, we should be alert to deny applications for the 
^isition of banks of the size and importance of Dothan Bank.in 
th 
e absence of overriding benefits to the public that offset the 
^Competitive consequences arising from a proposal. In this case, we 
thlnk there must be much more concrete evidence of public benefits 
£1 
0v?ing from the proposed acquis ition before the anticompetitive 
C°Sequences arising from approval of this acquisition could be 
Cotlsidered to be outweighed. 
Therefore, we would deny the application by this Applicant to 
q u i re Dothan Bank. 
S u s t 17, 1972 

21 
Item No. 2 
8/17/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CENTRAL AND STATE NATIONAL CORPORATION OF ALABAMA 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Central and State National Corporation of Alabama, Birmingham, 
^abama, a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Com 
PQny Act, has applied for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(3) 
the Act (12 U.S,C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire at least 80 per cent of the 
° t i n8 shares of Peoples Bank and Trust Company, Montgomery, Alabama 
("Bank"), 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
red persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
V>lth section 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views 
ha s 
exPired, and the Board has considered the aoplication and all 
0 R l m e n t s received in light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) 
°f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)).. 
Applicant controls two banks with aggregate deposits of 
r°ximately $388 million representing about 7.4 per cent of deposits 
in C o 
1/ 
°mmercia1 banks in Alabama. 
Consummation of the proposal would 
S e Applicant's share of deposits by only .7 percentage points, 
V o uld not result in a significant increase in the concentration 
Of th Q banking resources in Alabama. 
A ll banking data are as of June 30, 1971. 

2172 
-2-
There is no substantial existing competition between Applicant 
and Bank (about $36 million in deposits). Moreover, approval of this 
^Plication may provide procompetitive effects for the Montgomery area. 
Bank is the fourth largest of five banks, with about 8,8 per cent 
of area deposits, while the two largest organizations in Montgomery 
control over 75 per cent of area deposits. The introduction of Appli-
cant into the area, through acquisition of Bank, should provide a more 
Vigorous competitor for these two large organizations and aid in the 
eventual deconcentration of the Montgomery area. For these reasons 
competitive considerations are consistent with the approval of the 
application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank, are regarded as generally 
satisfactory, particularly since Applicant has made a commitment to 
Provide additional capital to one of its subsidiary banks and also to 
Bank. These considerations lend weight for approval of the applica-
tion. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community also lend weight for approval, since Applicant proposes :to 
e*Pand Bank' s business development, data processing, and correspondent 
banking services. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
action is in the public interest and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 

2173 
-3-
^ate of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
legated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 17, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
tSj?^ 
Secretary of the Board 
2/ 
jj' Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
ltchell, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors 
n e and Bucher. 

217-1 
Item No. 3 
8/17/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ALABAMA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisitions of Banks 
Alabama Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire the successors by merger to (1) The 
American National Bank & Trust Co, of Mobile, Mobile, Alabama ("Mobile 
Bank"), a nd (2) First National Bank of Decatur, Decatur, Alabama 
('Decatur Bank"). The banks into which Mobile Bank and Decatur Bank 
a re to be merged have no significance except as a means to facilitate 
t h e acquisitions of voting shares of Mobile Bank and Decatur Bank, 
ceordingly, the proposed acquisitions are treated herein as the proposed 
acquisitions of the shares of Mobile Bank and Decatur Bank. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
Qceordance with § 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the applications and 
a l 1 comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
t h e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank with deposits of approximately 
million, representing about 12.4 per cent of deposits of commercial 
anka i n Alabama.^ Consummation of the two proposals would increase 
|T^l~~banking data are as of June 30, 1971, with the exception of data 
the Decatur market where the data is as of June 30, 1970. 

2175 
- 2 -
Applicant1s share by 1.8 per cent, resulting in Applicant controlling 
approximately 14.2 per cent of deposits in commercial banks in Alabama. 
However, this would not result in a significant increase in the concen-
tration of banking resources in the State. 
Mobile Bank (deposits of about $64 million) is the third 
largest bank in the Mobile market with approximately 11 per cent of 
2/ 
market deposits, 
while Decatur Bank (deposits of about $35 million) 
l s the second largest in the Decatur market with approximately 26 per 
If 
cent of market deposits. 
Acquisition of Mobile Bank and Decatur Bank 
^ould not have a substantial effect on existing competition since 
Decatur Bank is over 70 miles and Mobile Bank about 225 miles from 
the headquarters of Applicant's banking subsidiary. 
There is some existing competition between Engel Mortgage 
c°mpany ("Engel"), a subsidiary of Applicant's lead bank, and Mobile 
B a nk and Decatur Bank, since Engel participates to a certain degree in 
tl*e mortgage' banking buoineao in both Decatur and Mobile. In 1971, Engel 
0rl8inated 
a total of $7.1 million in loans in the Mobile area, most 
o f which were FHA-VA loans on 1-4 family homes. During the same period 
o f time, Mobile Bank originated approximately $1 million in conventional 
l°ans on 1-4 family homes. The total mortgage originations on 1-4 
family residences in the Mobile area in 1971 was between $70 to $87 
^ U i o n ; thus, it appears that neither Mobile Bank nor Engel has a 
2*7*~*~ 
The Mobile banking market iG approximated by Baldwin and Mobile Counties. 
V The Decatur banking market is approximated by Morgan County. 

216? 
-3-
roajor share of this market. Therefore, consummation of the transaction 
would have only a slightly adverse effect on competition for mortgage 
originations on 1-4 family residences in the Mobile area. 
Also, in 1971 Engel had total mortgage originations of 
$1.5 million in the Decatur area. During the same period, Decatur Bank 
originated a total of $0.7 million in mortgage loans on 1-4 family 
homes. Total mortgage originations in 1971 in the Decatur area on 
family homes was between $22-$24 million. Thus, both Decatur Bank 
Engcl accounted for only a modest proportion of the loan origina-
tion business in the Decatur market, so that, as in the Mobile market, 
the competitive consequences are only slightly adverse. 
The Department of Justice filed comments with regard to both 
Proposals. The Department contended that approval of the applications 
l,ould have a significantly adverse effect on potential competition be-
tween Applicant and Mobile Bank and Decatur Bank. In the Department's 
view, Applicant, as the largest banking organization in Alabama, is 
°ne of the most likely entrants into markets throughout the State. The 
Department stated that the Mobile market was a highly concentrated one 
^ terms of banking resources, and that Mobile Bank was the third 
largest bank in the market. For these reasons, the Department asserted 
that approval of the application would have a substantially adverse 
effect on competition in the Mobile market. 

2177 
-4-
In addition, the Department contended that the acquisition 
of 
Mobile Bank would have significantly adverse effects on a Statewide 
level since Mobile Bank was believed to be one of only a small number 
°f banks in Alabama which were capable of becoming significant com-
ponents of new bank holding companies. The Department stated that banks 
comparable in size to Mobile Bank should be preserved in order to 
facilitate the possibility of the formation of additional holding companies 
Alabama. 
The Department considered the Decatur market, in which Decatur 
Bank is the second largest bank, to be highly concentrated. Since 
Applicant was the largest of the three Statewide holding companies in 
Alabama that were not presently represented in Decatur, the Department 
Viewed the proposed acquisition of Decatur Bank as having a significantly 
Averse effect on potential competition. 
Applicant was given an opportunity to reply and did so. In 
Applicant's view, the Mobile market is not conducive for de novo entry 
8ince both population growth and rate of per capita income growth in 
the Mobile market were below the State averages between 1960 and 1970. 
addition, Applicant pointed out that the Mobile economy had suffered 
a severe loss with the closing of a nearby air force base. Since the 
largest Mobile banks control over 70 per cent of deposits in the 
M o b U e market, Applicant viewed its proposed affiliation to be procom-
petltive, one likely to aid in the eventual deconcentration of the market. 

-5-
2178 
Applicant also viewed the Decatur market as being unattractive 
f ° r de novo entry by reason of its low population per banking office. 
N<> other bank in the Decatur area that would provide more meaningful 
competition to the largest organization, which i s already affiliated 
with a bank holding company, was available. The other independent bank 
headquartered in Decatur has an existing business relationship with a 
bank holding company, and the two banks located in Morgan County are 
Prevented by law from branching into Decatur. 
The record indicates that population growth in the Mobile 
Market between 1960 and 1970 was 3.7 per cent. However, the rate of 
growth between 1965 and 1970 was a negative 4.2 per cent. This decline, 
p l us the curtailment of military expenditures in the area, make prospects 
f ° r the area unfavorable. The Board concludes that the Mobile market is 
n°t attractive for de novo entry. Moreover, the proposed acquisition 
could 
assist in that area's economic expansion. Mobile Bank ranks a 
distant third in the market; the two largest banks are both over three 
times the size of Bank. Affiliation with Applicant could make Mobile 
Bank a stronger competitor to these two large banking organizations which 
tend to dominate the market. The resulting increase in competition 
w°uld, tn the Board's view, serve to stimulate economic expansion in 
t h e Mobile area. 
The Decatur market does not appear attractive for de novo entry 
slnce the population per banking office is considerably less than the 
Statewide average. Additionally, there are no other suitable banks that 

2173 
-6-
uould be available to Applicant. The largest banking organization in 
Decatur is already associated with a bank holding company, and the other 
bank located in Decatur has an existing affiliation with another organiza-
tion. The only two remaining banks in the Decatur market are both located 
i n Hartselle, about 13 miles from Decatur. Neither of these banks can 
branch into Decatur under present law so that they are unsuitable for 
entry by Applicant. Moreover, the proposed affiliation with Decatur 
Bank could be procompetitive since the largest bank in the market is a 
subsidiary of Central and State National Corporation of Alabama and has 
dePosits of $253 million. Moreover, this bank 
is the third largest 
Alabama and operates under grandfather privileges in 12 counties. 
A ffUiation with Applicant should enable Decatur Bank to give stronger 
c°mpetition to this large organization. The Board concludes that com-
petitive considerations of the proposed acquisitions of both Mobile 
Bank and Decatur Bank are consistent with approval. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
° f A p p l i c a n t , its subsidiary banks, and Mobile Bank and Decatur Bank 
° r o regarded as generally satisfactory. Applicant does propose to 
pr°vide additional capital for Mobile Bank so that banking considera-
tions lend support for approval of the acquisition of Mobile Bank and 
consistent with approval of the acquisition of Decatur Bank. Con-
aerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
tr* 
b e served are consistent with approval of the Decatur application 
lend some weight for support of approval of the Mobile Bank 

2 1 8 0 
-7-
acquisition since Applicant will be able to make use of Mobile 
Bank's active International Department in the Birmingham area 
which presently does not have a bank with an international depart-
ment. it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transactions arc 
in the public interest and that the applications should be spproved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
^ 
By order of the Board of Governors! effective August 17, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
"""" 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
I r ^ i R g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell and 
^eehan. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
b s ent and not voting: Governors Daane and Bucher. 

2181 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We would deny both these applications by Alabama's 
largest banking organization. 
The majority does not deny that there is existing compe-
tition between Applicant's subsidiary, Engel Mortgage Company, and 
each of the two banks sought to be acquired. There has been no 
showing that competition between Applicant and the two banks in 
thi o market is insubstantial; in fact, the indications are that it 
Probably substantial. The proposed acquisitions are, therefore, 
likely to cause a substantial lessening of existing competition in 
the market for mortgage originations in both the Mobile and Decatur 
areas. 
As regards the application to acquire Mobile Bank, the 
fa 
c t that the Mobile area has experienced little growth in recent 
V e a r s d o Gs not, in and of itself, signify that the market is un-
attractive for de novo entry. The Mobile area is underbanked as 
l o u r e d by population per banking office as compared to the State-
wide = 
average. Even if population remains static in the Mobile area, 
would be an incentive for Applicant to enter de novo. However, 
the 
e lack of growth and population decline in Mobile can be traced to 
the 
closing of a large military base in 1964. There is no indication 
the Mobile area will not in the future overcome this setback 
G^pand, both in terms of population growth and economic activity. 
In ° U r view, the long-term prospects for the Mobile area are favorable 

- 2 -
2182 
and, with the passage of a feu years, likely to attract entry of 
other bank holding companies. 
The three largest banking organizations in the Mobile 
market presently hold over 80 per cent of market deposits. Entry 
bV a likely potential competitor through de novo means is particularly 
important in such a setting. Uith the financial resources and strength 
o f Applicant behind a de novo bank, deconcentration of the market and 
batter economic performance could result. Additionally, we see no 
benefits to the public to offset the adverse competitive effects that 
are present in this application. The majority noted that Applicant 
has agreed to increase capital of Mobile Bank and also that acquisi-
tion of Mobile Bank will enable Applicant to provide international 
banking services in the Birmingham area. The short answer to these 
"benefits'1 is that the Mobile Bank can surely increase capital with-
out being acquired by the largest banking organization in Alabama, 
an<* the latter organization can certainly provide international 
Services for Birmingham — given its size — without having to re-
s°rt to acquisition of a large Mobile bank. 
Ue cannot join the majority in approving the acquisition 
Decatur Bank. Decatur Bank is the second largest bank in the 
Decatur market, with over 26 per cent of market deposits. Moreover, 
the tx*o largest organizations within the Decatur market have close 
to 75 per cent of area deposits. Given this concentrated setting, 
atu* the fact that Applicant as the largest banking organization in 

2183 
-3-
Alabama is one of the most likely potential entrants into the 
Decatur area, we feel that the competitive considerations alone 
Prohibit consummation of the proposal. 
We find no public benefits which might outweigh the 
adverse competitive effects inherent in each application. We 
believe that Applicant's acquisition of each Bank will tend to 
s°Udify the already high level of concentration present in both 
markets. The absence of public benefits and the presence of anti-
competitive effects mandate denial of both applications. 
AU£ust 17> 1 9 7 2 

2184 
Item No. 4 
8/17/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CENTRAL AND STATE NATIONAL CORPORATION OF ALABAMA 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Central and State National Corporation of Alabama, 
Birmingham, Alabama, a bank holding company within the meaning of 
t h e Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval 
U n d er § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per 
C e n t or more of the voting shares of The Citizens' Bank of Eufaula, 
Eufaula, Alabama ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
lnterested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
1 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
° f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
1/ 
Applicant controls three banks 
with aggregate deposits 
Of aPproximately $478 million, representing about 8.1 per cent of 
de 
. 
1/ 
Posits in commercial banks in Alabama. 
Consummation of the pro-
p0sal would increase Applicant's share of deposits by only .2 per-
C G nt a g e p o i n t g a n d w o u l d n o t result in a significant increase in the 
°ncentration of banking resources in Alabama. 
^h 0
T h i S l n c l u d e s Peoples Bank and Trust Company, Montgomery, Alabama, 
S e acquisition by Applicant was approved by the Board on August 17, 1972 
2 J 
banking data are as of December 31, 1971, 

2185 
-2-
Bank ($9 million in deposits) is the third largest in Barbour 
County with about 17 per cent of the market, but is the smallest bank 
Seated in the City of Eufaula. 
Due to Alabama's branching laws and the 
fact that the closest banking subsidiary of Applicant to Bank is some 80 
"rtles away, there is no significant existing competition between Applicant, 
^ s subsidiary banks, and Bank. 
There is little probability that Appli-
C ant would enter Barbour County on a de novo basis because of the small 
Population growth and the low income per capita figures of the area, and 
c°nsummation of the proposal would foreclose no substantial potential 
c°Npetition. 
The Board concludes that competitive considerations are con-
sistent with approval of the application. 
Considerations related to the financial and managerial resources 
an<l future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are 
te8arded as generally satisfactory and consistent with approval, par-
ticularly since, as noted in the Order approving the acquisition of 
Peoples 
Bank and Trust Company by Applicant dated August >.7, 1972, 
applicant has made a commitment to provide additional capital for its 
Subsidiary banks. 
The banking considerations are consistent with 
aPproval of the application. 
Considerations relating to the convenience 
a n d needs of the community lend some weight for approval, since Appli-
C ant proposes to provide trust services, data processing and certain 
Marketing functions which are not now readily available in the area. 
It 
i s the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public 
interest and the application should be approved. 

21SS 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be con-
ciliated ( a ) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
QQJ-_ 
, 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
°f this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
tlle Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
legated authority. 
If 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 17, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
"J 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
B u r e r ' S h e e h a n > a n d Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman 
a s and Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

fMxt* 
mMXi-. 
•h Rtstv.* 
2187 
B O A R D D P 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 34 
8/17/72 
ADDRESS CJKFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
August 18, 1972 
• Irvin Kaplan, rresidcnt 
/ r s t Texas Bancshares Corporation 
VJestheimer, Suite 1080 
"oueton, Texas 
7/027 
Mr. Kaplan: 
By letter dated Narcli 24, 1972, First Texas Bancshares Corporation 
^ first Texas") has applied for the Board's approval of the acquisition of 
J1 hares of M-G, Inc., with the understanding that these shares will be distri-
cted to shareholders of First Texas as soon as proposed legislation amending 
Eternal Revenue Code of 1954 (bill number S-3111) is enacted and a 
Cfcrtificat ion of the Board that the distribution is necessary or appropriate 
0 effectuate the divestiture requirements of the 1970 Amendments is obtained. 
It is understood that First Texas (former!!y M-G, Inc.) acquired 
j-°ntrol of Long^iew National Bank, Longview, Texas, in 1969, and became a 
folding company as a result of the 1970 amendments by virtue of its 
^e.rship of 62.7 per cent of the shares of that bank. At the time First 
a
t>:as became a bank holding company it engaged in nonbariking activities as 
J/ealer in farm products and commodities; a producer, purchaser, and seller 
h 
fc"-ecl and related products at wholesale; and an operator of a retail 
^tclware and feed store. It is further understood that, in crder to segregate 
!1°nl)anking activities, First Texas organized M-G, Inc. as a wholly-owned 
^sidiary and on December 28, 1971, distributed all of its nonbanking assets 
v 
liabilities to M-G, Inc. Prior to its acquisition of the shares of M-G, 
Vo°"i ' P:irsl: 'I'exas did net file an irrevocable declaration that it: would cease 
1oe a bank holding company by January 1, 1981, nor did it seek Board approval 
the transaction. 
•j. 
Under the provisions of section 225.4(d) of Regulation Y, First 
'"as Was not permitted to acquire the shares of M-G, Inc. without first 
f...fining the Board's approval and, in order to obtain such approval, First 
Would be rsquired to demonstrate tc the satisfaction of the Board that 
^ 
"-quisition is necessary to enable First Texas more efficiently to market 
assets sub]act to divestiture. He'ever, on the basis of information 
th?l>3"ied hy First Texas and the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, it- appears 
tl- !' 
Eolation was unintentional and was a *tep designed to effectuate 
divestiture requirements of the Act. 

• Trvin Kaplan, President 
- 
2 
-
2158 
In the circumstances, the Board has decided not to take action at 
tfris time with respect to First Texas' ownership of M-G, Inc. The Board's 
Vision is based on, among other things: 
(1) the assumption that there are 
110 Material facts in this case not now known to the Board; (2) the expectation 
that First Texas will not, through M-G, Inc. or otherwise, commence to engage 
lri new nonb.inking activities on the basis of section 4(c) (12) of the Act nor 
Acquire shares of any additional company engaged in nonbanking activities on 
basis of that section; and (3) the commitment expressed in your letter of 
arch 24, 1972, that, at the appropriate time,, First Texas will promptly divest 
ltrs shares of M-G, Inc. 
Nothing contained in this letter should be interpreted as committing 
1Ci Board to granting any certification for tax purposes that First Texas may 
with respect to shares of M~G, Inc. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary o? the Board 
C'C: Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 

-olu, 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20555 
Item No. 6 
8/17/72 
ADDHEBS OFTIUIAL CORREEPONPENCC 
TO THE BOARD 
August 17, 1972 
£:ca°nge National Bank of Chicago 
^alle and Adams Street 
JijcaRo, Illinois 
60690 
GenUe.men: 
3.977 4. 
Tllis refers to the application of your bank dated April 2.8, 
of 
" o r permission of the Board of Governors under the provisions 
Isrr°C"fJtl'Cn 2 5 ojT- t h v F e d e r a l Reserve Act, to hold stock of Exchange-
to I?} CorP°ration ("E1C:,)J> Chicago, Illinois«. Reference i-j also made 
XritC* a g r e e m f i n ! : <--'ited April 28, j972, executed by EIC in accordance 
^id 
requirements of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act. by 
if,s
 
aych corporation agrees to restrict its operations and conduct 
in the manner set forth therein0 
B o ^ 
After consideration of the application and agreement j, the, 
ti0r ' 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the applica-
grants permission to Exchange National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, 
Act 
a'* subject to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
c0SJ C o Purchase and hold up to 20,000 shares of the stock of EIC at a 
" 
approximately $20,000, provided such shares are acquired within 
f r o m the date of this letter. Please advise the Board of 
c°ni£t-* 
through the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, the date EIC 
* 
business* 
])o1 . ^'he Board of Governors also grants consent for EIC to purchase 
'^st n* a ? ^ : c o x l ' r , v n a - j l 
the capital stock of Exchange National Bank 
("p,^.,.,;"' > Ltd. ("FNBT,:), Exchange National Bank Provident Fund, Ltd. 
;-U'j 
;> ai'.d Exchange National Bank Compensation Fund, Ltd. ("EKBC") , 
1^0 
in Tel Aviv. Israel, at a cost of up to approximately 
v .'!.'' 
$4,800) each, provided such shares are acquired within 
^tci,^1' - ':o'n the date of this letter. The Board also approves the 
ail<- holding of such shares in excess of 15 per cent of EICrs 
and surplus. 

Exchange National Bank of Chicago 
-2-
2180 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
of ENBT by EIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That EIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in ENBT if ENBT at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hoId stock, or if ENBT establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Israel or alsewhere, in any manner, which at. 
the time would not be permissible to EIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, EIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of ENBT as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That: any share acquisitions or dispositions by ENBT 
for its own account be reported under Section 211.8(d) 
of Regulation K in the same manner as if ENBT were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
of ENBP and ENBC by EIC is granted subject to the same condi-
A°its set: forth in the preceding paragraph, substituting EN BP and ENBC, 
A c t i v e l y , for ENBT. 
j(> 
Your attention is directed to the fact that EIC will have 
t'b/ 0.'*" 
°f" 
o w n under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program and 
ou* 
0rfJ4>oi.ng approval for your bank to hold the stock of ETC is given 
t h (^nditicn that any foreign investments of EIC will be made withir 
ttrV,GVlclalines 
a s they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
" i vitie S of /our bank and its affiliates. 
c,£ v 
The foregoing consent to FJ'.C's purchase and holding of shares 
hi 
FNBi' ?,nd ENBC is given on condition that the investments will 
<n->£ 
0 
within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply 
^ehonoe National Bank of Chicago. 
Very truiy yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2131 
Item No. 7 
8/17/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
ha 
s aPPHed for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.s.c. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire at least 90 per cent of the vot-
i a § shares of The Seminole Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida ("Seminole 
Bank") # 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
terested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing com-
n t s and views has expired and the Board has considered the 
ation and all comments received in light of the factors 
S e t forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 26 banks with aggregate deposits of 
6 mill, 
million, representing 5.57 per cent of the deposits for 
mercial banks in Florida, and is the fourth largest banking 
Otgnvs J 
2ation in the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 
1 9 7 1 
' a n d reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
P P t° V e d through June 30, 1972.) The acquisition of Seminole 
9 * million in deposits) would increase Applicant's control 
State deposits to 5.75 percentage points, and Applicant's rank 
atn°n8 Stat- i 
ate banking organizations would remain unchanged. 

- 2 -
Applicarit p r e s e n t l y c o n t r o l s T a m p a Bay B a n k ( d e p o s i t s o f 
m i l l i o n ) , the n i n t h l a r g e s t b a n k in the T a m p a M a r k e t . 
S e m i n o l e 
fiank, w h i c h A p p l i c a n t s e e k s to a c q u i r e t h r o u g h this p r o p o s a l , is also 
the T a m p a M a r k e t . 
T h e two b a n k s hold 2.2 and 3.1 per c e n t , re-
spectively, o f total m a r k e t d e p o s i t s . 
If this a p p l i c a t i o n w e r e 
approved, A p p l i c a n t w o u l d b e c o m e the m a r k e t ' s fourth l a r g e s t b a n k i n g 
O r 8 a n i z a t i o n and w o u l d c o n t r o l 5.3 per cent o f total d e p o s i t s . 
T h e 
t w ° banks are 10.5 m i l e s a p a r t , their s e r v i c e areas o v e r l a p s l i g h t l y , 
a n d e a c h b a n k o b t a i n s a p p r o x i m a t e l y 7 per cent o f its d e p o s i t s and loans 
from the s e r v i c e area of the o t h e r . 
C o n s u m m a t i o n of the p r o p o s a l , 
therefore, w o u l d e l i m i n a t e this e x i s t i n g c o m p e t i t i o n . 
T a m p a , F l o r i d a ' s f i f t h l a r g e s t c i t y , is located in H i l l s b o r o u g h 
County, 0 n e 
o f F l o r i d a ' s m o s t i m p o r t a n t a g r i c u l t u r a l a r e a s ; it is also 
11 ^portent 
m a n u f a c t u r i n g c e n t e r . 
T h e T a m p a H a r b o r h a n d l e s the b u l k 
°f Florida's s h i p p i n g t o n n a g e . 
In this p r o s p e r o u s area, the T a m p a 
banking Market is h i g h l y c o n c e n t r a t e d ; 71 per c e n t o f total d e p o s i t s 
a r e held by three b a n k i n g o r g a n i z a t i o n s . 
S e m i n o l e B a n k is one o f five 
C G m a i n i n g u n a f f i l i a t e d b a n k s located in c l o s e p r o x i m i t y to the d o w n t o w n 
T a t nPa area, it is e s p e c i a l l y a t t r a c t i v e as a p o t e n t i a l a f f i l i a t e o f 
a bank h o l d i n g c o m p a n y m a k i n g its i n i t i a l e n t r y into the area. 
T h e a c q u i s i t i o n o f S e m i n o l e B a n k by a b a n k i n g o r g a n i z a t i o n 
Hot rv Presently represented in the T a m p a M a r k e t would have a salutary 
Gf f 
£ e c t o n the e x i s t i n g h i g h d e g r e e o f c o n c e n t r a t i o n p r e s e n t in this 

21S3 
-3-
a r ea and could have a beneficial effect on competition in the relevant 
ar<Jas. The Board concludes, therefore, that the competitive factors 
relating to this application are adverse; that consummation of the pro-
Posed transaction would (1) eliminate some existing competition between 
applicant's Tampa subsidiary and Seminole Bank; (2) eliminate a bank-
ing alternative in this concentrated market; and, most importantly, 
( 3) remove Seminole Bank as a potential means of entry by other organ-
nations not presently represented in this market. Accordingly, 
c°mpetitive considerations require denial of this application unless 
th 
e anticompetitive effects of the proposal are outweighed by benefits 
public in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be 
t o the 
served. 
The financial conditions of Applicant and its subsidiaries 
oonsidered to be generally satisfactory, and their managements are 
deem< 
cial 
erned capable. Prospects for the group appear favorable. The finan-
condition and managerial resources of Seminole Bank are considered 
to H e generally satisfactory, and prospects for its future growth and 
Velopment are also favorable; its deposits increased 54 per cent from 
1967 
to 1971. Thus, banking factors are consistent with approval but 
Proy<j no significant support for such action. 
There are 19 banking organizations operating in the Tampa 
^rket. 
thi8 
No prime banking needs or conveniences are going unserved at 
time. Applicant's proposed initiation of trust services and the 
t i ng 0f fl business development officer at Seminole Bank would not be 

219 
-4-
^portant consequences of the proposed affiliation. Accordingly, 
c°nslderations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to h 
be served, while consistent with approval of the application, do not 
0utxtfeigh the adverse competitive effects of the proposed acquisition. 
It { 
13 the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
0uld not be in the public interest and the application should be denied. 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for the 
teasons summarized above. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 17, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ »»_. , 
l n § f° r t h i s a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
M i t c h
e r> sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors 
n e U and Daane 

2135 
B O A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C.. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
8/17/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CUR^KEPUNDtNCF. 
TO THE BDAND 
August 29, 1972 
^-Uiarri L. Cooper, Esq. 
Associate General Counsel 
'edera.1. Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
l)ear Mr. Cooper: 
N 
The Board has considered the request submitted by letter dated 
iIay 19, 1972, from a trial attorney in the San Francisco office of the 
Antitrust Division, Department of Justice, asking for an opportunity to 
famine at. the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco applications for 
approval of branch establishments filed with the Reserve Bank during 
j-ha period January 1, 1969, to the present date. The stated purpose of 
examination is to determine "the areas that California banks consider 
to be the best locations for expansion by branching" and to ascertain the 
underlying reasons why a particular branch site, was selected. The request 
*as been made, in conjunction with the preparation of the case by the 
Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice to enjoin the merger between 
Fargo Bank, N.A. and First Western Bank & Trust Company. 
The. Board's position is that the Reserve Bank should make the 
Jj^onnition available to the Department of Justice after first notifying 
banks whose applications are to be examined. 
The banks should be 
informed ci: the nature and scope of the examination, including the possi-
t-hat the information might be used in the subject litigation. In 
event, that a bank asks that certain information not be made available 
Keservs Bank counsel believes that that information falls within the 
jp^ptlous from disclosure set forth in section 261.0(a) of the Board's 
J',Xes Regarding Availability of Information, the request for non-oiseJcsuce 
snould be transmitted to the Board's General Counsel for appropriate action. 
In preparing the records tor inspection, Reserve Bank staff 
segregate the branch applications from confidential staff materials 
;;n tne files, such as reports of investigation or examination and staff 
K^-Emendations. It is to be understood that inspection of the applica-
i 8 to take place at the Reserve Bank under the supervision of 

William L„ Cooper, Esq. 
- 2 
aPPropriatc officials of the Bank, that the information made available 
shall remain the property of the Board, and that requests for copies of 
tue records should be transmitted to the Board's General Counsel. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
i 

B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
„ 
Q 
D F T K E 
Icem No. 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
8 / l 7 / " 
2137 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
•* 
a d d r e s s d t f i c i a l 
c o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
^lliam N. McDonough, Esq. 
Fed 
C o u n s e l 
£o s- r a l R e s c r v e B a n k of Boston 
L°n, Massachusetts 
02106 
1)0ar Mr. McDonough: 
TO THE BOARD 
August 23, 1972 
L h e mattpr 
f ) refers to your letter of July 26, 1972, discussing 
0 f C o r n n « ? 
r G C G n t r u l i n 8 b y t h e Massachusetts Commissioner 
p*aerri i 
° n S ^ 
T a x a t l o n d e nying a petition on behalf of the 
s*les tav 
^ 
B f k ° f B 0 S t ° n f° r a n exetr-Ption from a Massachuset* 
in-., 
^ proposed to ho 
I p v i p H t.t->* 
~ 
conin,<»rjj 
counsel, tiy, Bartlett, Brown & Proctor, 
8 t h e institution of declaratory ludcjment action 
l U 1 i n V 
C o n m ° ™e a l t h 
Massachusetts to test the Commissioner's 
f ^ruorandum ^ o m the Ely firm evaluating the nrcbabiiity 
actionsf 
U 
» U C?, a S U i t b G i n s t i t u t e d - 
Your letter also advises 
':he Banv q 7 J ° U C ? a n k s B o a r d o f Directors opposing the payment by 
ct,e sales tax in question and recommending that 
if 
W . the Bank seek relief through litigation. 
V°U5r UttcAt t h ° d i r e°tion of the Board, following advice to it of 
r h i s matt/ 
, l t S r e l a t e d materials, Governor Sheehan discussed 
* A«8ust !rWlr 
President Morris by telephone on Thursday, August 17 
^oue 
m~ 
' 1 c°nveyed to your Bank's General Counsel, Laurie-
5eeh-atl
 
e ° f t h a t conversation. 
In effect, Governor 
^etfcer 
Resident Morris agreed that Mr. Morris would decide 
f^'or t 0 ^ 
U u t:hGr informal action might yet be taken by the Bank, 
J< 
^ S t i t u t i o n o f Utigation, looking to a resolution of 
» r d not-oV 
' N ° r r i s w a s tolcl t h a t absent such recourse, the 
' at no f n
 
B a n k ' S ? r 0 S G n t inclination to litigate this matter, 
Z ^ P e c t L 
communication between your Bank and the Board would 
' b u t t h a t President Morris would advise Governor Sheehan 
- j opnients. 
S incerely yours, 
(Signed) Thomas j, 01Conner 11 
Thomas J. 0'Council 
General Counsel 
