PR 609 
<»sv. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
October 18, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2 6 9 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 18, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Miss Key and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistants, 
Office of the Secretary 
The staff presented a review of domestic and international 
developments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings 
o f the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical mate-
rials prepared for this review and of the individual papers presented 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
i/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2695 
10/18/71 
-2-
Mr. Cardon then reviewed matters of interest to the Board 
presently being considered by the Congress. 
At the conclusion of the legislative review, reference was 
made to a current newspaper article based on a statement by Chairman 
Patman of the House Banking and Currency Committee regarding what he 
considered to be inadequacies in the financial reports submitted to 
the Federal Reserve by Government securities dealers who trade 
directly with the System Open Market Account. 
Discussion included comments on the rationale and content of 
the daily and annual reports and the use made of the resulting statis-
tics. it was agreed that the Joint Federal Reserve-Treasury Staff 
Committee on the Government Securities Market would be requested to 
review the statistical material that had been questioned and make 
aPpropriate recommendations. 
Members of the staff who had been present specifically for 
the purpose of the economic review then withdrew and the following 
joined the meeting: 
Messrs. Solomon, Director, and Leavitt, Deputy Director, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. O'Connell, General Counsel, Sanders, Deputy General 
Counsel, and Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Other appropriate supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
and statement (copies attached under Item No. 1) reflecting approval 
September 28, 1971, of the application of Huntington Bancshares 

269G 
10/18/71 
-3-
Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of The Portage 
National Bank, Kent, Ohio. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by First at 
Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of First 
National Bank and Trust Company of Dunedin, Dunedin, Florida, and 
authorized issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 2) reflec-
ting that decision. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Florida 
National Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire 
shares of Brevard National Bank, Titusville, Florida, and authorized 
issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 3) reflecting that 
decision. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Civil Rights. Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting 
°n October 12, 1971, the staff had prepared a revised draft of a 
letter responding to questions posed by the United States Commission 
Civil Rights regarding actions taken by the Federal Reserve System 
with respect to civil rights enforcement. Also pursuant to the ear-
lier discussion, a questionnaire had been developed for use by 
federal Reserve examiners on an experimental basis to assist in 
detecting possible instances of discrimination in lending. The letter 
t o the Civil Rights Commission would transmit a copy of that question-
naire. 

269 
10/18/71 
-4-
After discussion, the Board approved transmittal of a letter 
with enclosures in the form attached under Item No. 4. 
Newport Savings and Loan Association. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated August 6, 1971, dis-
cussed the application of Newport Savings and Loan Association, 
Newport, Rhode Island, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of shares of The Island Trust Company, also of Newport, a 
Proposed new bank. The memorandum noted that the proposed acquisition 
was made possible by a recently passed Rhode Island law which provides 
that a savings and loan association may organize one new bank. The 
Division recommended approval, as did the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston. However, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board recommended denial 
the basis of its fundamental position that the long-range interests 
°f the public are not advanced by ownership relationships between 
savings and loans and commercial banks. 
With a memorandum dated September 8, 1971, the Legal Division 
transmitted drafts of an order and statement covering approval of the 
application. It was the view of the Legal Division that approval 
would not compromise the Board's discretion with respect to adding, or 
^clining to add, the operation of a savings and loan association to 
the list of permissible activities of a bank holding company under 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
In a memorandum dated October 14, 1971, Mr. Leavitt summarized 
the alternatives available and recommended that the Board schedule a 

2698 
10/18/71 
-5-
hearing on the case. The memorandum noted that the Board has a 91—day 
period within which to act on an application under section 3 of the 
Bank Holding Company Act. If the Board fails to act within that 
period, the application is deemed to have been granted. Based on the 
date of receipt of the subject application, the 91-day period would 
expire today. However, if counted from the time that all information 
required to process the application had been received, the 91—day 
Period would not expire until sometime in November. 
During today's discussion Governor Mitchell suggested that, 
in view of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board's strong opposition, it 
might be undesirable to schedule a hearing at this time. Governor 
Mitchell also noted that on October 29 members of the Board would 
meet with members of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to discuss the operation of a 
thrift institution as a permissible activity for bank holding compa-
nies. In his view it seemed appropriate to postpone acting on the 
aPplication or scheduling a hearing until after the October 29 
meeting. 
The Board agreed unanimously with this suggestion, and it was 
understood that further consideration would be given to the applica-
tion after the October 29 meeting. 
Midlantic Banks. By order dated July 29, 1971, pursuant to 
action on July 1, the Board denied the application of Midlantic Banks 

2699 
10/18/71 
-6-
Inc., Newark, New Jersey, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
to Citizens National Bank, Englewood, New Jersey. A memorandum from 
the Legal Division dated October 8, 1971, discussed Midlantic's 
request for reconsideration of its original proposal on grounds that 
the Board had incorrectly evaluated the impact of continued home 
office protection in Englewood. Along with the request for reconsid-
eration of the proposal, the applicant submitted an alternative pro-
posal that would provide for the transfer of Citizens National Bank's 
home office from Englewood to Tenafly, where the bank now has a 
branch. 
Today's discussion indicated that although several members of 
the Board opposed reconsideration of the original proposal, since no 
new facts had been submitted, they were willing to consider an 
alternative proposal. 
Thereupon the request for reconsideration of the Board's 
July 29 order was denied unanimously. Issuance of an order reflec-
ting this decision and inviting comments on the alternative proposal 
was authorized. A copy of the order, as issued, is attached as 
jtem No. 5. 
Applications of Japanese banks. There had been placed on the 
consent calendar for August 26, 1971, memoranda from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated August 17, 1971, regarding (1) the 
aPplication of The Mitsubishi Bank, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, to become a 

27(30 
10/18/71 
-7-
bank holding company through acquisition of shares of The Mitsubishi 
Bank of California, Los Angeles, California, a proposed new bank; and 
(2) the application of The Sanwa Bank Limited, Osaka, Japan, to become 
a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of The Sanwa Bank 
of California, San Francisco, California, a proposed new bank. The 
Division recommended approval of both applications. However, the 
Board requested the staff to explore the question of whether the 
applications could be denied on the basis that the proposed institu-
tions would not be members of the Federal Reserve System. 
In a memorandum dated October 14, 1971, the Legal Division 
expressed the view that the Board could lawfully deny the two appli-
cations if it concluded that approval would be contrary to the public 
interest. However, the Division questioned whether the applications 
could be denied on the basis that the proposed banks would not be 
members of the System. If the Board should require membership for 
U.S. subsidiaries of foreign banks, it was recommended that the Board 
Propose to the Congress enactment of appropriate legislation. 
The memorandum pointed out that since the Board's initial 
consideration of the two applications, Regulation Y had been amended 
to provide procedures and presumptions for determining control of a 
bank or company. The subject applications had been reviewed in the 
light of the amended regulation and the Legal Division recommended 
that the Board consider directing further inquiry to Mitsubishi Bank 

2701 
10/18/71 
-8-
concerning possible control of the bank by Meiji Mutual Life Insurance 
Company. According to the memorandum, there appeared to be no legal 
reason why the Sanwa Bank application should not be approved at this 
time. 
During discussion, there was general agreement with the view 
°f the Legal Division that further inquiry should be directed to 
Mitsubishi Bank concerning the relationship of that bank with Meiji 
Mutual. There was also agreement that the control aspects of the 
Sanwa application should likewise be investigated and that the two 
applicants should bear the burden of proving to the satisfaction of 
the Board that they neither control, nor are controlled by, nonbank-
xng interests engaged in activities in the United States. 
It was understood that the staff would obtain appropriate 
information from each of the applicants. 
First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company. In a letter 
dated July 14, 1971, counsel for First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust 
Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, outlined a proposal by the trust 
company to enter into an agreement with Urban Community Bank, Phila-
delphia, a proposed minority-organized insured State bank, whereby 
First Pennsylvania would furnish management, training, and related 
services for Urban Community until such time as the latter became a 
self-sufficient banking organization. Counsel inquired whether the 
foregoing relationship would cause the Board to find First Pennsyl-
vania in control of Urban Community pursuant to the Bank Holding 

27r 
10/18/71 
-9-
Company Act. If this were the case, First Pennsylvania Corporation 
(the trust company's parent) would be considered a multi-bank holding 
company, which is prohibited under Pennsylvania law. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum dated October 12, 1971, 
outlined several courses of action open to the Board, but recommended 
that the Board find that the proposed agreement would not give First 
Pennsylvania control of Urban Community within the meaning of the 
Holding Company Act. 
During discussion there were expressions of disagreement with 
the staff recommendation. It was generally agreed, however, that 
under the proposed agreement First Pennsylvania would be in control 
Urban Community, but that the arrangement would not be prejudicial 
to the public interest. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the 
staff would study the proposal further and obtain the views of the 
Pennsylvania banking authorities. 
Pan American Bancshares. By order dated June 25, 1970, the 
Board approved an application of Pan American Bancshares, Inc., 
Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Citizens National Bank of 
Orlando. Orlando, Florida. However, no offer was made to the bank's 
stockholders when the applicant discovered that the bank's condition 
W a s less satisfactory than had been thought. In August 1970, Pan 
American informed the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta that it did not 
Plan to consummate the transaction. 

270 
10/18/71 
-10-
In a memorandum dated October 14, 1971, Mr. Leavitt stated 
that negotiations between Pan American and Citizens National had 
recently been reopened and Pan American was now proposing to acquire 
the bank at an exchange ratio significantly reduced from that in the 
original proposal. Pan American requested that, in the interest of 
time, the Board not regard the recent request as constituting either 
a new application or an amendment to the original application, but 
rather an extension of the time granted originally to acquire the 
bank. Mr. Leavitt recommended that the request be granted. 
Mr. O'Connell explained that it was considered desirable for 
the proposed acquisition to be consummated as promptly as possible in 
view of the unsatisfactory condition of Citizens National Bank. If 
the request were considered as a new application, by statute there 
would be a 30-day waiting period after Board approval before the bank 
could be acquired. This period was provided so that the Justice 
Department would have an opportunity to object where adverse competi-
tive considerations were involved. In this case there were no such 
oonsiderations, and the Department of Justice had indicated 
that it 
w°uld not offer objections to the revised proposal. 
After discussion, the Board approved unanimously amending the 
Board's order of June 25, 1970, to approve the applicant's amended 
Proposal and to extend for no more than three months from the date of 

2 7 0 4 
10/18/71 
-li-
the Board's new order the time within which the transaction may be 
consummated. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2705 
Item No. 1 
10/18/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . 
C . 
the Matter of the Application of 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED, 
c°lumbus, Ohio 
approval of acquisition of 80 
Per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Portage National Bank, 
Kent, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, 
c°lumbus, Ohio, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
80 
per cent or more of the voting shares of The Portage National Bank, 
Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
j 
a n d requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
aPproval of the application. 
I 

2706 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 9, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12930), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
e*ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered,, 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the record, that 
said application be and hereby is approved for the reasons set forth 
i n t h e Board's Statement of this date, provided that the action so 
aPproved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
C a u s e by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant 
t o delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 18, 1971 . 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Ilaisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

270? 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED, 
COLUMBUS, OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE PORTAGE NATIONAL BANK, KENT, OHIO 
STATEMENT 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of The Portage National Bank, 
Ke*t, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of the supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
o f the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
ai*d recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
t h e application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
tl*at the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
anV part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

2708 
-2-
acqiiisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
o r which in any manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board 
finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
tlle transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consid-
eration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
fche bank holding, company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
ar*d needs of the communities to be served, 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant con-
sols nine banks with aggregate deposits approximating $776c2 million 
anc* is the sixth largest banking organization in Ohio. Consummation 
o f the proposed acquisition of Bank (deposits of $63,1 million) would 
increase Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in the State from 
per cent to 3^9 per cent and would not change its present ranking. 
(Ail banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding com-
pany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through July 31, 
Bank operates a main office and two branches in Kent, Portage 
c°unty, and has received approval to open a third. It also operates 
^ree other smaller branches in Portage County and one in Summit County, 
has a population of over 28,000 and is located approximately eleven 

-2-
2709 
miles northeast of Akron. Although Bank is the largest bank in Portage 
County, it is the sixth largest of 14 banks competing in the Akron market, 
which is approximated by Portage and Summit Counties and the City of 
Warfsworth. 
The office of Applicant's subsidiary closest to an office of 
Bank is located 65 miles away in Ashland, Ohio. These two offices are 
separated by three counties and 107 banking offices. Only an insubstan-
tial amount of existing competition would be foreclosed by consummation of 
the proposed acquisition. Based on these facts, Ohio branching laws, 
and other facts of record, substantial future competition is unlikely 
to develop between Applicant's subsidiaries and bank. 
The Board has considered a comment from the Department of 
Justice that consummation of the proposal would have an adverse effect 
°n competition. The Department argues that the relevant markets are 
^nt and Portage County, that these markets are highly concentrated, 
that Applicant is one of the most likely entrants into those markets 
considering its size and its pattern of acquisitions, and that approval 
*Ul eliminate Applicant as a significant potential entrant, entrench 
the leading position of Bank, and tend to reduce the likelihood of 
entry by statewide banking organizations into the market. It suggests 
that competition could be better served if Applicant entered de novo 
through acquisition of a smaller competitor. 
The Department's arguments are premised on its view of Kent and 
Mortage County as the relevant markets. The Board has concluded, however, 

2710 
-2-
that the relevant area in which to assess competitive effects is the 
Akron market, which is approximated by Portage and Summit Counties 
and the City of Wadsworth. 
The Board's conclusion is premised on the degree of economic 
interdependence between Portage County and Summit County, Both Counties 
are dominated by the City of Akron which extends to within 2 miles of 
the Portage County line. 
Although Portage County is becoming increasingly industrial-
ized, leading employers in the region are located in Akron. According 
to the Ohio Bureau of Employment Services, over forty per cent of the 
employed residents in Portage County travel to work in nearby counties; 
ttore than 60 per cent of these commute to Summit County. Sixty-two 
Per cent of those registering in recent months at the Kent office of the 
°hio State Bureau of Employment Services were Portage County residents 
last employed in Summit County. 
Likewise, the communication patterns within the Akron SMSA 
support the conclusion that Portage County is substantially integrated 
with Akron. The Telephone Company has recently readjusted its rate 
structure (at the request of Kent City residents) so that a call from 
^ent to Akron is a local call. Moreover, Akron's only major newspaper, 
Akron Beacon Journal, is extensively circulated throughout Portage 
c°unty, reaching C7 per cent of the households in Kent and 50 per cent 
all households in Portage County, Portage County is served by all 
Akron television stations and numerous Akron radio stations. Presumably, 
Akron and Portage County banks advertise extensively through these media. 

2711 
With the absence of all major department stores from 
Portage County, the regional and large shopping centers within the 
metropolitan area of Akron serve as major retail centers for the entire 
area of Summit and Portage Counties. Two of the largest department 
store chains in Akron maintain regular delivery schedules into Portage 
County, 
In the absence of significant existing competition between 
Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank (which competition, if it existed, 
Would suggest the existence of submarkets) and based on the existence 
of interdependence between Portage and Summit Counties, the Board con-
cludes that the relevant geographic market in which to judge the effects 
of the proposed acquisitions upon competition is approximated by the 
Akron market. In that market, Bank holds 4.7 per cent of deposits 
and the five largest banks hold 82.5 per cent. The effect of the pro-
posed acquisition would be procompetitive in that it would increase Bank's 
competitive capabilities as compared to its five larger competitors. 
Based on the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in further-
ance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the busi-
ness of banking in any area and would not restrain trade, substantially 
lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly in any section of the 
country. 

2712 
-2-
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial and managerial resources and future prosepcts of Applicant, 
its subsidiaries, and Bank are considered satisfactory and consistent 
with approval. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved, - Affilia-
tion with Applicant should enable Bank to offer expanded and improved 
services, as well as enabling Bank to solicit and accomodate larger 
commercial borrowers through participation lending arrangements, to 
engage in international banking activities, to activate its trust ser-
vices, and to develop FHA and VA mortgage lending procedures. A genuine 
fteed for such services exists in the area. Applicant has in the past 
demonstrated its willingness and ability to aid in the establishment 
o f such services at several of its present subsidiaries. These consid-
Nations lend some weight in support of approval of the application. 
Summary and Conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the transaction 
v°uld be in the public interest, and the application should be approved. 
October 18, 1971 

2713 
Item No. 2 
10/18/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
PIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
°rIando, Florida, 
f°r approval of acquisition of 90 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
First National Bank and Trust 
L°mpany of Dunedin, Dunedin, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando Corporation, 
°rlando, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
Of O n 
3 U per cent or more of the voting shares of the First National 
ank and Trust Company of Dunedin, Dunedin, Florida ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
tec 
c°mmended approval of the application. 

2711 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 12, 1971 (36 Federal Register 15074), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
a^d managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the fifth largest bank holding company in the 
state, controls 18 banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $574 
mHlion, representing 4.1 per cent of the deposits held by commercial 
banks in Florida. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
through September 30, 1971.) Consummation of the proposal would add 
iess than one half of one per cent to Applicant's percentage share of 
Such deposits and would not change its relative position among the 
State's banking organizations. 
Bank (deposits of $50 million) is the third largest of 14 
banks in the Clearwater area controlling about 12 per cent of area 
deposits. Applicant's closest banking subsidiary to Bank is located 

271 
-2-
25 miles southeast of Bank in Tampa with several intervening banks between 
tllis subsidiary and Bank and there is no present competition between Bank 
and this or any other of Applicant's subsidiaries. Additionally, the 
distances involved and the natural barrier formed by Tampa Bay make it 
^likely that any such competition will develop in the future. Bank's 
-^a~ger competitors are each over two and one half times Bank's size. 
c°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely effect 
c°mpetition in any relevant area and would not have an adverse effect on 
any competing bank. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Appiicant) i t s subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as satisfactory. 
* 
°nsiderations relating to the banking factors lend some weight for 
aPproval in that affiliation with Applicant would give Bank continuity 
management. Considerations related to the convenience and needs of 
th 
G community lend weight for approval since Bank, through Applicant's 
assistance, will be able to provide a broader and more sophisticated range 
services 
for the numerous light industries developing in the Clearwater 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in 
the Public interest and should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that said 
PPiication be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized above, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 

2716 
-2-
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 18, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

2717 
Item No. 3 
10/18/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
FLORIDA NATIONAL BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., 1 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
Brevard National Bank, Titusville, 
1 
Florida. 
1 
* 
• 
w 
w 
__ 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Florida National Banks of 
pl°rida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding 
C°mPany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of Brevard National Bank, 
titusville, Florida ("Brevard Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to tho Comptroller of the 
p 
rrency, and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
tecoiim\ended approval of the application. 

2718 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 26, 1971 (36 Federal Register 16964), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
t h e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
fche banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in the 
State of Florida controls thirty banks located throughout the 
q > 
a t e with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.1 billion, repre-
Senting 7.6 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding 
e°mpany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
September 28, 1971.) Consummation of the proposal herein would increase 
applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in the State by an 
Significant amount. 
Brevard Bank ($9 million of deposits) operates one banking 
°f f i 
ce located approximately five miles south of downtown Titusville, 
Florid 
XQa. it is the sixth largest of eight banking organizations in 

-2-
2719 
northern Brevard County (which approximates the relevant banking market) 
and controls 7.3 per cent of commercial bank deposits in this area. 
The two largest banks in northern Brevard County are subsidiaries of 
multi-bank holding companies and control approximately 43 per cant of 
commercial bank deposits in the market. 
Applicant's subsidiary closest to Brevard Bank is located 
O £ 
ml-les west in Orlando, Florida. No competition exists between 
firevard Bank and this or any other of Applicant's subsidiary banks. 
Additionally, it does not appear likely that such competition will 
develop in the future in light of the facts presented, notably the 
distances separating Brevard Bank from Applicant's subsidiaries, the 
number of banks in the intervening area and the restrictive provisions 
of the Florida law on branch banking. In view of the present static 
economic condition in the Titusville area there appears to be little 
liklihood that Applicant would establish a de novo office in the 
a t e a served by Brevard Bank, Thus, it appears that consummation of 
Applicant's proposal would neither eliminate any meaningful existing 
U o r foreclose significant potential competition. Affiliation with 
Pplicant may enable Brevard Bank to compete more aggressively with 
the i 
larger banking organizations in the market. On the basis of the 
e°ord before it, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
a 
would not have an adverse effect on competition in any 
Levant area. 

4-
2720 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiaries and Brevard Bank are regarded as con-
sistent with approval. Applicant proposes to draw upon its technical 
and managerial resource strength to assist Brevard Bank in obtaining 
a new executive officer to fill that presently vacant position and to 
®ake available to Brevard Bank Applicant's extensive trust, auditing, 
investment management and advertising services. Thus, considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the communities involved lend 
SuPport to approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment 
fchat the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and 
1/ 
fchat the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that said 
application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized above, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be 'consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
^tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 10, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, ilaisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
[ s v a l ] 
Secretary of the Board 
re Applicant's banks were controlled by the duPont Trust which was 
0r^ired by the 1966 amendments to the Act to divest either its banking 
^ its nonbanking assets by July 1, 1971. The Board has under review the 
k U s t s contention that it is not a bank holding company with respect to 
int- 
COntrolled by Applicant. Approval of this application is not 
ended to reflect acquiescence by the Board in the Trust's contention* 

B O A R D D F 
G D V F . R N H R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
2721 
Item No. 4 
10/18/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
October 19, 1971 
The Honorable Theodore M. Hesbtirgh, Chairman 
United States Commission on Civil Rights 
Washington, D. C. 20425 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your letter of September 14, 
1971, in which you asked to be provided with updated information on 
the relevant actions taken by the Federal Reserve System with 
respect to civil rights enforcement so that your Commission would be 
in a position to assess the progress made by the System. To aid 
in your evaluation, you request the Board's response to several 
questions set: forth as an attachment to your letter. 
The Following answers, preceded in each instance for 
convenient reference by the relevant question, have been prepared 
°nly in relation to State member banks over which the Board has 
primary Federal supervisory responsibility. As of December 31, 1970, 
there were 1,147 State member banks, representing 8.5 per cent of 
the 13,500 insured commercial banks in the nation. 
1. "Have any complaints of discrimination in mortgage 
lending by member institutions been received by your agency since 
your response to our February 1971 letter of inquiry? If so, 
Please provide all relevant information on the disposition of such 
complaints." 
A survey of the 12 Reserve Eanks indicates we 
have received none. 
2. "It is our understanding that the questionnaires your 
a8ency, together with the three other Federal financial regulatory 
agencies, agreed to send to member lending institutions for purposes 
determining their current policies in making loans available to 
minorities and gauging whether discrimination is a serious problem, 
have been forwarded and that a substantial, number of responses have 
been received." 

2722 
-2-
a. "When were the questionnaires mailed?" 
June 1971. 
b. "To how many institutions, by State, were they sent?" 
Refer to Attachment A. 
c. "How many responses, by State, have been received?" 
Refer to Attachment A. Nonrespondent banks were 
reminded by the Reserve Bank to submit the completed ques-
tionnaires and an additional follow-up letter to those 
banks failing to respond is planned. 
o f M
 
d" 
"please provide us with the results of any evaluation 
beon 
r e s P ° n s c s th*t 
been made. If no evaluation has vet 
en made, p ease estimate when you anticipate such an evaulation 
Vt-J-J. be completed." 
The informal agreement at the time the questionnaire 
was being prepared was that HUD would collate and analyze 
the data obtained from the responses. The ouestionnajLre 
form was designed so as to be compatible with computer 
processing and we understand that HUD is now processing the 
• questionnaires. The System has, however, made its own" 
preliminary review of the responses received from State 
member banks and a discussion of a few general impressions 
that have been gained from the data received thus far 
follows: 
It, 
U 4, l 
Only one bank indicated that it had been questioned, 
concerning a complaint of discrimination and that, subse-
quently, the complaint was dismissed. 
Application forms used in the consideration of 
residential loans by State member banks, almost without 
exception, do not contain information as to the applicant's 
race, color, religion or national origin. 
In response to a specific question, a small number of 
State member banks indicated that there were neighborhoods 
or other areas of high concentration of minority group 
members in which their institutions refuse to make loans for 

2723 
-3-
residential purposes. The Reserve Banks have been requested 
to investigate those banks. A greater percentage of State 
member banks indicated that they do consider the racial 
or ethnic composition of neighborhoods, income levels of 
residents in neighborhoods, and the proximity of lew-rent 
or public housing projects in determining*whether or not 
to make a loan on a particular property. Specific inquiry 
into these practices is to be made at the time of the next 
regularly scheduled examination. 
3. "In our February 1971 letter of inquiry, we called attention 
to several recommendations made by the Department of Housing and Urban 
development (HUD) concerning policies and practices that the financial 
regulatory agencies should adopt pursuant to their responsibility under 
Section 808(d) of the Civil Rights Act of 1968. . ." 
"What action has your agency taken to implement each of these 
HUD recommendations? 
If no action has been taken, please explain the 
reasons why." The recommendations were as follows: 
a. "Require member institutions to keep on file all loan 
^plications, indicating the race or color of the applicant, together 
ylth other relevant information, such as the character and location of 
the neighborhood in which the property involved is located and if the 
a?plication is disapproved, the reason why?" 
a. "With respect to recommendation a., the Federal Home 
Loan hank Board informed the Commission that a regulation to implement 
this recommendation was being drafted. In light of this action Gy 
the Board, has your agency reconsidered its position concerning the 
refiUirement that member institutions keep on file relevant racial and 
.ethnic data on all loan applications?" 
It would appear that such discriminatory practices 
as may exist in residential real estate lending fall into 
three broad categories: One, refusal to make loan to a 
specific applicant because of his race, color, religion 
or national origin; two, the "blocking.out" of areas of high 
concentraction of minority groups from consideration for 
real estate Joans; three, the designation of specific areas 
outside of which the lending institution will not make loans 
to minority group members. The Board does not believe that 

2yyr 
-4-
additional recordkeeping requirements or a more detailed 
examination process will give commensurate benefits in 
detecting or deterring discrimination against specific 
loan applicants. On the contrary, the Board believes that 
procedures to make members of minority groups increasingly 
aware of their rights under the Civil Rights Act of 1968, 
and adequate procedures to deal with such complaints as may 
be received is the most effective method of dealing with 
this type of discrimination. Further, it is believed that 
information derived from the HUD questionnaire, the use of 
addresses and other information now contained in member 
banks' records, and data developed from Lhe experimental 
forms to he used by examiners (hereinafter discussed) will 
provide information sufficient to identify "patterns" of 
discrimination, such as the second and third types mentioned. 
v" 
"Require member lending institutions to post a notice 
m their lobby stating that the institution does not discriminate in 
mortgage lending and informing the public that such discrimination is 
violation of Section 805 of the Civil Rights Act of 1968." 
b- 
"Regarding recommendation b., has your agency taken any 
action leading toward the posting of appropriate notices or otherwise to 
•lVlform. t h e public of its rights to equal opportunity in mortgage lending 
The Board believes there is merit to this proposal and 
is in agreement with the spirit of the policy statement and 
advertising guidelines published for comment; on May 21, 1971, 
and the fair housing poster regulation published cn August 4, 
1971, by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
The Board has drafted and has discussed with the Federal 
financial institutions supervisory agencies and with HUD a 
policy statement providing for the posting of notice and 
the inclusion of nondiscriminatory logos in advertising for 
real estate loans, which we feel would be more appropriate 
for use by financial institutions. If HUD indicates approval 
of our proposed policy statment a decision as to its adoption 
by the supervisory agencies should be forthcoming shortly. 
Promptly following such adoption, a copy of the policy state-
ment will be forwared to you. 
c» 
"Develop a special form for use by examiners in checking 
n discriminatory lending practices covered by Title VIII." 

4" 
-5-
c. "Regarding recommendation c., have examiners been 
provided training techniques for detecting violations of Title VIIIV 
If so, please describe the nature and extent of such training. If 
not, please explain the reasons why such training is not considered 
necessary." 
The Board has developed an experimental form for use by 
examiners. The form, which is scheduled to he in use on a 
trial basis soon, is attached (Attachment B). After the 
form has been used for 60-90 days, the Reserve Banks will 
submit suggestions for changes in the form and techniques 
for its usage. 
Regarding training of examiners with respect to 
techniques for detecting violations, the following action 
has been taken: 
1. On April 2.S, 1969, former Chairman Martin addressed 
a letter to the presidents of each State member bank directing 
attention to the Civil Rights Act of 1968, and to its provisions 
applicable to State member banks that are in the business of 
making mortgage loans. A copy of the letter was distributed 
to the System's examiners who are required to include in their 
reports information about any apparent violation of the Act 
disclosed during the course of any regular or special examination. 
2. The subject of discrimination in mortgage lending 
and the responsibility for enforcement of the Act has been 
on the agenda of each of the past several Washington conferences 
held annually at the Board building with the executive^officers 
in charge of examinations at each of the Reserve Banks and on 
the agenda of similar conferences held at the time of annual 
meetings of the Conferences of State Bank Supervisors. The last 
time this matter was discussed was at the spring conference 
and it will next be discussed at the annual Washington conference 
to be held in November 1971. 
3. A course titled: "The Examiner's Responsibilities 
under Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act - Techniques for 
Enforcement" is included in the curriculum for the Board's 
school for System examiners scheduled to commence November 15, 
1971. The Board's experimental form will be used in connection 
with this school. 
d. "Develop a data collection system designed to reveal 
Patterns or practices of discrimination in home mortgages lending 
O r a t i o n s covered by-Title VIII." 

272C 
-2-
d. "Have the forms used for purpose of examining member 
institutio ns been modified to include a section on Title VIII compliance? 
If so, please attach a copy of the modified form." 
As previously mentioned, the Board is experimenting 
with a form designed to determine State member bank 
compliance with Title VIII. The Board hopes that when 
the form is refined that it will serve as a basis for 
a data collection system relevant to State member banks. 
The examination report form is designed so that all 
violations of banking laws are listed on the Examiner's 
Comments page (page l). Examiners are required to report 
violations of Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act on this 
page. 
4. "llow many cases of Title VIII violations have been found 
by examiners since April 25, 1969, when your agency formally notified 
member institutions of the requirements of Title VIII?" 
None. 
a. "With respect to each such instance, please describe 
the nature of the violation and the corrective action taken by your 
agency." 
Not applicable. 
b. "On the basis of the experience thus far do you believe 
the existing procedure being used by examiners are adequate to detect 
a n d eliminate violations of Title VIII by member institutions?" 
As previously mentioned, the Board does not view 
the examination process as being an effective method 
for detecting cases of individual discrimination. The 
Board believes that the best approach for dealing with 
these problems is to inform the public of its rights through 
the advertising logos and posted notices as suggested in the 
Board's proposed policy statement as discussed herein. As 
to the detection of patterns of discrimination, the Board 
hopes that the experimental form to be used by examiners 
together with other information which can be developed in 
instances where such would be considered appropriate will 
be sufficient to identify such patterns. 

272 
-7-
5. "lias your agency developed procedures for the imposition 
sanctions for violations of Title VIII by member institutions? If 
please provide us with copies of these procedures. If so please 
describe any cases in which these procedures have been used.11 
In any instance where an examiner for the System 
encounters evidence of racial discrimination in mortgage 
lending such fact would, if substantiated, be made subject 
to appropriate supervisory action including use of this 
Agency*s cease and desist powers. 
6. "In your response to our February 1971 letter of inquiry, 
yoti indicated that a substantial question exists as to the Board's legal 
authority to require member institutions to impose nondiscrimination 
requiranents on builders and developers with whom they have financial 
dealings. 
"Would your agency be in favor of legislation which specifically 
authorizes the imposition of such requirements on member institutions? 
l f not, please explain." 
The staff Memorandum of Law dated April 8, 1971, 
y.r. 
mm 
w 
* 
which was submitted as a supplement to the Board's 
wnicn was mi dui iu Lea au a suppj-ewitsiii. lu uiu duuiu 
response to the Commission of March 12, 1971, discussed 
both the legal and practical impediments to the attempted 
imposition of procedures by the Board which would require 
enforcement by State member banks of nondiscrimination 
requirements directed to builders and developers. Legislation 
which specifically authorized the imposition of such require-
ments on member institutions would present similar administrative 
and enforcement problems. 
Very truly yours, 
Is/ Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Attachments 

Attachment A 
' M l 
Mm* 
•>S V-L-J ; 
•JiT. 
life 
- -vHi 
i TT-tornia 
^ e ^ t i c u t 
^ i ^ c t - o f 'Columbia 
TABLE SI 10WHIG DISTRIBUTION OF AW) RESPONSE 
TO HUB QUESTIONNAIRES BY STATE 
Number of Banks 
to which Questionnaires 
Were Sent 
;>o 
0 
1 
u 
17 
4 
2^ 0 0 
/ 
/ 
\ 
n 
. 
W . • i « 
, 
. M ft}®*. 
• 
Uul«ia«a 
0 
10 
10 
0 
6 
70 
30 
14 
10 
6 
7 
15 
102 
I * 
2.5 
6 
Responses 
Received 
20 
0 
1 
10 
9 
17 
6 
2 
0 
10 
10 
0 
6 
65 . 
57 
47 . 
30 
13 
10 
6 
7 
15 
85 
25 
6 

toiGcouri 
toneanu 
'^Vfida 
Hampshire 
J«raey 
Me:cico 
He 
Uo 
» Yotk 
ttsH Gttrol itia 
No 
c t h Dakota 
'Mo 
^ahon* 
0> 
^ W v a n U 
^ 
Xolaild 
c,roli LSia 
^ 
Dakota 
' 
V* 
Vi 
'Biata 
-2-
70 
41 
\ 
/' u 
2720 
/ 
. 
33 
7 
74 
I 
4 
119 
17 • 
C 
23 
0 
C 
25 
13 
50 
6 
0 
42 
8 
'' 34 
40 
13 • 
i . m 
66 
39 
10 
i 
I 
20 
7 
72 
1 
4 
95 
17 
0 
7.9 
0 
6 
25 
13 
50 
6 
0 
40 
C> 
30 
34 
13 
1,042 

2730 
Attachment B 
EmRIjMENTAL CIVIL RIGHTS QtJESTTONMATRF 
of 7oro / l iy ; ; u a u t t o Section 805 Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act 
01 1,68, it is unlawful for a bank in connection with loans or other 
oritin 
f ®?®i®tance» 
of the race, color, religion or national 
„ 
" °f (1
/
),Ioan applicant, (2) any person associated with the loan 
n , i 
> C i \ a n y Present 0 1 Prospective owner of the dwelling, (4) 
any lessees U 0 any tenants or occupants, to deny a loan or other 
ir !'nC; 
"eifitaace for the purpose of purchasing constructing, 
R o v i n g , £e£airin£t or maintaining a dwellingr Furth7r"Tls 
, l H 
connection with any of the loans mentioned to discriminate 
^ 
( a > e a 0 U n f c' ( b ) i n t e 5 ? e 6 t r u t e 8> (c) duration, or <d> 
•* t. V*. i. ill J y 
win 11 • 
a n f f f o r t f:o determine the bank's knowledge and compliance 
taxs law, the examiner, is requested to complete the following 
J^o^onfi f^om information obtained from personal observations and 
*nyestigatioas as well ad information supplied by bank management. 
V'Ucle appropriate answer where indicated; otherwise euoply data 
SSMXtf**MKKKmT 
No 
toes the bank make loano for residential purposes, inciuditir.-: 
a. Purchase 
. 
yf, 
h" 
Construction 
- 
Yea No 
c. Improvement, repair, and maintenance 
Yea Ko 
/re the bank's loan officers and executive management 
aware of the provisions of Title VIII of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1968? 
YefJ 
K o 
3 
Y 
* J-S a notice posted in a conspicuous piece in the bant. 
. notifying the public of the provisions of the above 
mentioned law? 
_ 
Y e e 
K o 
Does the bank include a statement es to its nondis-
criminatory practices in all advertloing of real ' 
estate lomis? 
• What la the estimated population of the bank's primary 
service area? 
G' 
1 0 tl>e estimated minority grout/-' population of 
the bank's primary service area? 
Ye.c No 
I 
t h G P u^oses of this form, minority group is defined ss Negro/Black, 
^er^enn Indian, Spanish American, Oriental or Other Minorities (such 
liSkiuwo). Members of the white .race- are considered nonadnority. 

2731 
- 2 -
What is the estimated number of residential real 
estate loans made by the. bank during the past 
calendar year? 
What is the estimated number of residential real 
estate loans made to minority group borrowers 
during the past calendar year? 
• • 
What is the estimated number of residential real 
estate loan applications received from minority 
group members during the past calendar year? 
L' 
1 r\ 
Are there neighborhoods or other areas of high 
concentrations of minority group members in 
which the bank refuses to make real estate 
loans? 
a. If noj specify area and reasons 
for such refusal 
Yes No 
U, 
m 
Are there any residential areas with high concentra-
tions of minority group members within the bank's 
primary service a£ea where the bank has no or 
relatively few residential reel estate loans? 
Yet; No 
'••Of!; 
ft. If so,'specify areas and reasons 
for such. 
» 
12 
A 
Aire loan terms, i.e., amount, interest rate, duration 
«tc., set without regard to borrower's race, color, 
religion or national origin? 
No 

2732 
Item No. 5 
10/18/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
I n the Matter of the Application of 
HIDLANTIC BANKS INC., 
Newark, New Jersey, 
for prior approval of the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares 
e s s directors' qualifying shares) of 
successor by merger to Citizens 
Nati °nal Bank, Englet^ood, New Jersey. 
ORDER ON REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION 
AND ALTERNATIVE PROPOSAL 
This matter comes before the Board of Governors on a Request 
c 
°r ^consideration and Alternative Proposal filed by Midlantic Banks 
Bo 
concerning the Board's Order dated July 29, 1971, in which the 
a r d denied the application of Midlantic Banks Inc., Newark, New Jersey, 
for Prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(1 
e s s directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to Citizens 
^ational Bank, Englewood, New Jersey, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the 
B a n k Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)). (1971 Federal Reserve 
B u X ^ t i n 684) . 
Pursuant to § 262.2(f)(6) of the Board's Rules, Applicant 
guested reconsideration of its original proposal and in the alternative 

-2-
2782 
submitted an alternative proposal which would provide for the transfer of 
Citizens National Bank's home office from Englewood, New Jersey, to 
Tenafly, New Jersey, where the bank presently has a branch office. The 
Board finds that the Request for Reconsideration presents no new issues 
which would appear appropriate for the Board to consider and that recon-
sideration is not otherwise appropriate or in the public interest. 
It is hereby ordered, That the Request for Reconsideration of 
the Board's Order dated July 29, 1971, is denied. In order to facilitate 
consideration of the alternative proposal, comments and views regarding 
tl*e amended proposal may be filed with the Board not later than November 9, 
1971. Communications should be addressed to the Secretary, Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551. The 
aPPlication, as supplemented, may be inspected at the office of the 
B°ard of Governors or at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 18, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 

2 7 3 4 
Item No. 6 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
10/18/71 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
PAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC., 
^iami, Florida, 
approval of acquisition of 80 per 
Cent of the voting shares of Citizens 
National Bank of Orlando, Orlando, 
Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System an amendment to an application filed pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
by Pan American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida 
{ Applicant" ), a registered bank holding company, for the Board'8 
Prl°r approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the 
Vottng shares of Citizens National Bank of Orlando, Orlando, Florida. 
This application was approved by Order of the Board dated 
25, 1970 (1970 Federal Reserve Bulletin 590). The proposal as 
atnended 13 for Applicant to acquire 51 per cent of the outstanding 
Votir*g shares of Bank at an exchange ratio of 1.25 shares of Applicant 
to 1 
1 share of Bank and to make the identical exchange offer to the 

o 
- 2 -
remaining shareholders of Bank as soon as such offer can be registered 
^ith the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The Board has determined that the circumstances found to 
favor approval of the original proposal continue under the amended 
Proposal and, as viewed in the light of the statutory factors, to weigh 
favorably toward approval. The banking factors now strongly support 
such approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
in the public interest and that the Board's Order earlier issued in 
matter should be amended to allow consummation of the proposal. 
Accordingly, 
It is hereby ordered, That the Board's Order of June 25, 1970, 
amended to approve Applicant's amended proposal and to extend for no 
m°re than three months from the date of this Order the time within which 
^ e transaction may be consummated, provided, that such period may be 
further extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
^ank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 18, 1971 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
