MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 7, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Amendments to Regulation T , Credit by 
Brokers and Dealers, and Regulation U , 
Credit by Banks for the Purpose of 
Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks. 

237' 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tem on Thursday, September 7, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
M r . Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
M r . Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
M r . Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
M r . Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, 
M r . Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
M r . Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
M r . Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
M r . Pizer, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
M r . Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 

2378 
9/7/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applications 
of Shorebank, Inc., Quincy, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of (1) The 
Mechanics Bancorp, Inc., Worcester, Massachusetts, a one-bank holding 
company that controlled The Mechanics National Bank of Worcester, and 
(2) First Agricultural National Bank of Berkshire County, Pittsfield, 
Massachusetts, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 1. 
As recommended in a memorandum from Mr. Holland dated August 31, 
1972. the Board authorized organization of a staff task force to review 
and update the Board's Rules of Organization and Rules of Procedure. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated September 5, 1972, the Board unanimously approved, 
effective October 16, 1972, amendments to Regulations T and U exempting 
from margin requirements certain credit extended to so-called "block 
positioners" and third-market makers, and imposing reporting requirements 
for specialists. A copy of the notice published in the Federal Register 
is attached under Item No. 2, along with a copy of the related press 
release. 
As recommended by Governor Robertson in a memorandum dated 
September 5, 1972, with the concurrence of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, the Board authorized the commencement of cease and 
desist proceedings against Commerce Bank & Trust Company, Helena, Montana, 
under the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966. 

O * > 
*Ci> J.J 
9/7/72 
~
3
"" 
The Board ratified a letter sent on September 5, 1972, to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City regarding restoration and renovation 
work at that Bank. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Bank of Virginia Company. The Board unanimously a££raved the 
application of Bank of Virginia Company (formerly Virginia Commonwealth 
Bankshares, Inc.), Richmond, Virginia, to retain shares of Rusch Factors, 
Inc., Richmond, Virginia, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board also unanimously approved the applications of Bank 
of Virginia Company, Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares of Richmond 
Finance Corporation and Hanover Mortgage Corporation, both of Richmond, 
Virginia, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
Regulation J. In a memorandum dated September 5, 1972, 
Mr. Melnicoff discussed a petition for reconsideration and delay in 
implementation of the amendments to Regulation J, Collection of Checks 
and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks, approved by the Board on 
June 20, 1972. The petition had been submitted by counsel for a group 
of adversely effected banks but did not name the meters of the group. 
The Board had also received a letter from the American Bankers Asso-
ciation asking for delay. Both the letter and the petition expressed 
agreement with the Board's objectives, but suggested that more time 
was needed to study the effects on individual banks and to lessen the 
impact of adverse effects. 

2380 
9/7/72 
-4-
At today's meeting Mr. Melnicoff recommended that the Board 
not consider the petition officially until the names of the petitioners 
had been submitted. After discussion it was understood that the staff 
would acknowledge receipt of the petition and request the names of the 
petitioners. 
There followed a discussion of the letter from the American 
Bankers Association. The letter said that nonmember banks were concerned 
about the possible effects of the changes in Regulation J, since the 
accompanying changes in Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, would 
not provide offsetting benefits for them. Some nonmember banks were 
concerned that the new collection procedures would substantially reduce 
their earnings. 
It was also pointed out at today's meeting that the 
new collection procedures might cause liquidity problems for some nonmember 
banks. 
The Board was opposed to any delay in the implementation of 
the amendments to Regulation J, since the issues raised by the petitioners 
and by the American Bankers Association had previously been considered. 
It was noted that such a delay would necessitate a delay also in the 
implementation of the amendments to Regulation D. The amendments to 
Regulations D and J had been promulgated simultaneously and were designed 
to have a neutral effect on monetary policy. 
If reserve requirements 
under Regulation D were restructured without the corresponding changes in 
the payments mechanism under Regulation J, there would be adverse effects 
°n monetary policy. 

2381 
9/7/72 
-5-
Discussion indicated a consensus in favor of lending to nonmember 
banks with demonstrable liquidity problems resulting from the amended 
Regulation J. It was pointed out that Reserve Banks could lend directly 
to nonmember banks under paragraph 13 of section 13 of the Federal Reserve 
Act. The law did not require a penalty rate for direct extensions of 
credit to individuals, partnerships, and corporations. As an alternative, 
pursuant to section 19(e) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board could 
permit member banks to act as agents of nonmember banks in applying for 
or receiving credit from Reserve Banks. 
Continuing discussion indicated a consensus for permitting 
nonmember banks with significantly impaired liquidity to borrow either 
directly or through member banks, with the rate in either case being 
no more than 1/4 per cent higher than the rate paid by member banks on 
advances under paragraph 8 of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
It was understood that the staff would prepare for the Board's 
consideration a draft letter to the American Bankers Association denying 
its request for delay in implementation of the amendments to Regulation 
J, but indicating the Board's willingness to provide Federal Reserve 
credit to nonmember banks on substantially the same terns as to member 
b anks. 
Euro-dollar borrowings. 
In a memorandum dated August 1, 1972, 
Mr. Robert Solomon discussed the policy issue regarding a reduction 
in reserve requirements under Regulation M , Foreign Activities of 

2 3 8 2 
9/7/72 
-6-
National Banks. 
In a memorandum dated September 1, 1972, Messrs. 
Solomon and Bryant recommended that the Board publish for comment a 
proposal to abolish reserve-free bases and reduce reserve requirements 
on certain foreign borrowings of United States banks, primarily Euro-
dollars, to 5 per cent. Attached to the memorandum were drafts of a 
press release reflecting that recommendation and regulatory language 
that would amend Regulation M and Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks. 
The proposal would simplify the regulations in this area and provide 
parallel treatment for all member banks subject to reserve requirements 
on Euro-dollar transactions, regardless of their past use of Euro-dollar 
borrowings. 
The Euro-dollar reserve requirement had been set in 1969 
to moderate short-term dollar flows between the United States and other 
countries. 
The reserve requirement was set in 1969 at 10 per cent of the 
extent that borrowings exceeded the daily average amount of foreign 
borrowings in a specified base period or, alternatively, a specified 
percentage of total deposits—the so-called reserve-free base. 
The 
regulations provided that as Euro-dollar borrowings were repaid a bank's 
reserve-free base would be lowered automatically, and thus served to 
moderate the outflow of repayments to foreign banking systems. 
In 
November 1970, the reserve ratio was increased to 20 per cent to give 
banks an added incentive to preserve their bases at substantial levels. 

9/7/72 
-7-
At that time, the Board indicated that it would review the reserve 
ratio as circumstances warranted. 
Today's discussion indicated that the Board favored eventual 
elimination of the reserve-free base, but several procedural questions 
were raised. 
It was noted that while only 12 banks had reserve-free 
bases at this time, elimination of bases that banks had preserved at 
some cost could involve a bank relations problem. 
Some reservations were expressed about lowering the reserve 
requirement to 5 per cent. 
It was suggested that a reduction to 10 
per cent might be more desirable, since this would allow more flexibility 
if the Board wanted to lower the rate at some time in the future. 
Governor Brimmer recommended that the Board publish for comment a 
proposal to eliminate reserve-free bases and reduce the reserve requirement 
to 10 per cent. 
Other members of the Board expressed agreement with Governor 
Brimmer's suggestion. 
It was understood that the draft of regulatory 
language and the draft press release would be revised in light of today's 
discussion and published for comment. Attached under Item No. 6 are 
copies of the press release and of the notice published in the Federal 
Register. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2384 
Item No. 1 
9/7/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SHOREBANK, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Shorebank, Inc., Quincy, Massachusetts, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
t o
 acquire at least 80 per cent of the voting shares of The Mechanics 
Bancorp, Inc., Worcester, Massachusetts, a one-bank holding company which 
owns 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
The Mechanics National Bank of Worcester, Worcester, Massachusetts 
("Mechanics Bank"); and to acquire at least 80 per cent of the voting 
shares of First Agricultural National Bank of Berkshire County, 
p
ittsfield, Massachusetts ("Agricultural Bank"). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. 
The time for filing comments and 
v
iews has expired, and the Board has considered the applications and 
a l
l comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
t h
e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, organized in 1968, controls three banks holding 
aggregate deposits of $225 million, representing 1.9 per cent of total 
commercial bank deposits in Massachusetts, and is the seventh largest 
banking organization in the State. 
(All banking data are as of 
D e
c e m b e r 31, 1971, and reflect holding company acquisitions and formations 

a
Pproved through July 31, 1972.) The acquisitions of Mechanics Bank 
and Agricultural Bcnk would increase Applicant's share of State deposits 
by 1.6 percentage points, thereby making it the sixth largest banking 
organization in the State. 
Mechanics Bank ($96 million in deposits), the only banking 
subsidiary of The Mechanics Bancorp, Inc., operates its main office 
and five branches in Worcester, and three offices in nearby towns. 
It ranks as third largest among the eight banks in the Worcester SMSA 
(Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area) and among the 13 Worcester 
County banks. The two largest county banks hold total deposits of 
$336 and $164 million, respectively, and together control 70.6 per 
cent of the aggregate deposits in the Worcester SMSA. 
It appears that 
area banks would not be adversely affected by the proposed affiliation. 
Agricultural Bank ($91 million in deposits) operates its 
Nain office and five branches in Pittsfield. 
It also maintains six 
°ther branches throughout Berkshire County, where it ranks as the 
largest commercial bank, and controls 48.2 per cent of county deposits. 
The remaining five county banks hold total commercial bank deposits 
ranging from $64 million to $3.5 million. 
It appears that banking 
operations are well apportioned throughout the county as the needs of 
the area demand and that the proposed affiliation of Agricultural Bank 
w
*th Applicant would not adversely affect other county banks. 

-3-
2388 
The closest subsidiary offices of Applicant and Mechanics 
Bank are 21 miles apart, and 120 miles separate Applicant's nearest 
office to Agricultural Bank, There is no meaningful competition between 
any of Applicant's subsidiaries and the proposed subsidiaries, nor between 
Moahanicu Bank and Agricultural Bank, and it appears unlikely that 
significant competition would develop in the future due to the distances 
separating the banking offices and State laws that restrict branching to 
the home office county. 
Applicant states its objective is to build a holding company of 
such strength that it would become a strong competitive force among the 
*arge. Massachusetts banking organizations. The State's two largest 
raulti-bank holding companies each hold over $1 billion in deposits, and 
the five largest banking organizations control 60 per cent of the deposits 
°f commercial banks in the State. Upon consummation of the proposed 
acquisitions, Applicant, as the sixth largest banking organization, would 
control less than half the amount of deposits held by the fifth largest 
^ganization. 
The acquisition by Applicant of smaller banks in the 
toatkets or de novo entry probably would not substantially change its 
Present position. However, the acquisition of subject banks would enable 
Applicant to compete more effectively with the State's larger banking 
°
r
ganizations, Competitive considerations are^consistent with approval 
°f the applications. 

2387 
-4-
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
subsidiaries and the proposed subsidiaries are considered to be generally 
satisfactory. 
Prospects for Applicant appear favorable, as do the 
Prospects for Mechanics Bank and Agricultural Bank under Applicant's 
control. Banking factors are, therefore, consistent with approval of 
t h e
 applications. 
The major banking needs of the respective areas are served at 
J.L 
e
 Present time. However, Applicant proposes to assist subject banks 
i n
 offering a broader range of financial services to their customers. 
Accounts receivable financing and equipment leasing would be added to 
Present services offered by the two banks, and international banking 
S e
rvices would be introduced at Agricultural Bank. Considerations re-
lating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are 
consistent with and add some weight toward approval of the application^. 
I t :
 is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisi-
ions would be in the public interest, and that the applications should 
b e
 approved. / 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
t h e
 reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
t h
i s Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 

23SS 
-5-
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 8, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governors Robertson, 
Daane, and Bucher. 

Item No. 2 
9/7/72 
immediate release 
September 12, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
a < J
opted amendments to Regulations T and U to exempt from margin 
re
QUireraentc certain credit extended to so-called "block positioners' 
and third-market makers. The changes are effective October 16, 1972 
The Board
1
c amendments, which also apply new reporting 
tc
quirements to exchange specialists, were adopted simultaneously 
w
tth registration and reporting requirements impose*! by the Securiti 
°
nci
 Exchange Commission in this field. 
Block positioners are securities firms that stand ready 
t o
 hold amounts of stock for their own account sufficient to facili-
t a t
e the sale or purchase by their customers — 
primarily ini>titu-
tioris—of quantities too large to bo absorbed by normal exchange 
transactions. 
The minimum block of stock that could qualify for the 
0}
'emption from margin rcauircmente would have a market value of: 
$200,000, 
A block would also have to^be sold by the block posi-
tioner within 20 business days although limited extensions of 5 days 
a t
 ft time could be allowed by the stock vxchenges or the National 
Association of Securici.es Dealers. 

23^0 
- 2 -
Third-market makers are firms that make a market off the 
exchanges in stocks that are listed for exchange trading. 
Under the new amendments to Regulations T and U stock 
exchange specialists will be required to report block transactions 
Q c
quired on exempt credit to the Board* 
Regulations T and U pertain to security credit by brokers 
dealers and banks, respectively. 
/; copy of the Board's amendments Is attached. 

2831 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(12 CFR Parts 920 and 221] 
[Regs. T and U] 
CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF 
PURCHASING OR CARRYING MARGIN STOCKS 
Exempt 
toredhiJ^Jto^JiReci^^ 
e^MakerSj,. 
SRlrldlilML,>jgl<,ers and B l o c A J ^ t i o n e r s 
By notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal 
•tegiBter on Kay 31, 1972 (37 F. R. 10805), the Board of Governors pub-
Hshc<l modified proposals to amend Parts 220 and 221 to exempt from 
^ r g i n requirements credit extended by banks and brokers or dealers to 
"Pecialuts, and credit extended by banks to block positioners and market 
takers to carry on their market making activities. 
Following consider-
fl
t".ion of the comments received, the Board has adopted the proposed 
amendments with the following revisions: 
1. 
Subparagraph (2)(iii) of § 221.3(y) has been deleted and 
Lottier sobparagraph (2)(iv) of that section has been redesignated (2)(iii) 
2. A clarifying sentence has been added at the end of § 221.3 
<*)(2) as follows: 
"In the case where a block positioner acquires a 
block from a broker who acts as agent for f
v e r f l i 
s e v e r s , such acquisition shall be deemed for ^ p o s e s 
of this section to be an acquisition from a single 
source". 

3. 
The maximum net capital required of third-market makers 
^ 
§ 221.3(y) has been reduced from $1,000,COO to $500,000. 
These amendments were adopted simultaneously with the adoption 
o f
 rules pertaining to this subject by the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission. 
The text of the amendments reads as follows: 
§ 220.A — SPECIAL ACCOUNTS 
vV 
v'c 
'/V 
* 
'k 
(g) Specialist
1
s account. 
(1) 
In a special account desig-
nated as a specialist's account, a creditor may effect and finance, for 
flr
»y member of a national securities exchange who is registered and sets 
Q s
 a specialist in securities on the exchange, such member's transactions 
a s
 a specialist in such securities, or effect and finance, for any joint 
Venture in which the creditor participates, any transactions in any 
Securities of an issue with respect to which all participants, or all 
Participants other than the creditor, are registered and act on a national 
securities exchange as specialists. 
(?.) finch specialist's account, shall be subject to the same 
conditions to which it would be subject if it were a general account 
Except that if the specialist's exchange is a national securities exchange 
requires and submits to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
s
l*atcB! reports suitable-, for supplying current information regarding 
u.';e of credit pursuant to this paragraph (g), the require-
^ntf, of 5 2?0,6(h) regarding joint ventures shall not apply to such 
Ot
-*ouiu-s and tin maximum loan value of a registered security in such 

- 3 
account (except a security that has been identified as a security held 
investment pursuant to a rule of the Commissioner of Internal. Revenue 
^ e g s . section l-1236-l(d))) shall be as determined by the creditor in 
good faith. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
§221.3 ~~ MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
(a) 
Enquired statement as to stock-secured ...credit. 
In con-
n e
ction with an extension of credit secured directly or indirectly by 
ar
»y stock, the bank shall obtain and retain in its records for at least 
3
 years after such credit is extinguished a statement in conformity 
V 7 i
th the requirements of Federal Reserve Form U-l executed by the reci-
pient of such extension of credit (sometimes referred to as the "customer") 
executed and accepted in good faith by a duly authorized officer of 
bank prior to such extension: 
Provided, That this requirement shall I 
n
°t apply to any credit described in paragraphs (o), (w), (x), (y), or 
<*) of this section or § 221.2 of this part except for credit described 
p a r a g r a p h s 221.2(f), (g), and (h) extended to persons who are not , 
J o k e r s or dealers subject to Part 220 of this Chapter (Regulation T). 
determining whether or not on extension of. credit is for the purpose 
s
Peci£j.c<3 in § 221.1 or for any of the purposes specified in § 221.2 or 
^ i o section the bank may rely on the statement executed by the customer 
A c c e p t e d in good faith. To accept the customer's statement in good faith, 
t h
« officer must (1) be alert to the circumstances surrounding the credit 
IT Should have read: 
" . . . Provided, that this requirement shall not 
apply to any credit described in paragraphs (o), (w), (y), or (z) 
of this section . , . ." 

2384 
- 4 -
(2) if he has any inforinatloh which would cause a prudent man not 
to accept the statement without inquiry, have investigated and be satis-
fied that, the customer's statement is truthful. 
vV 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(o) 
Specialist. 
In the case of credit extended to n member 
o f
 a national securities exchange who is registered and acts as a spe-
cialist in securities on the exchange for the purpose of financing such 
member'o transactions as a specialist in such securities, the maximum 
loan value of any stock (except stock that has been identified ay a 
security held for investment pursuant to a rule of the Commissioner of 
Internal Revenue (Regs, section 1-123.6-1 (d))) shall be as determined by 
the bank in good faith: 
Provided, That the specialist's exchange is a 
national securities exchange which requires and submits to the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System reports suitable for supplying 
Cu
rrent information regarding specialists' use of credit pursuant to 
this section. 
_ 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(W>
 
m a k e r
 exemption. 
(1) 
In the case of credit 
^ t e n d e d to an OTC. market maker, as defined in subparagraph (2) of this 
Paragraph (w), for the purpose of purchasing or carrying an OTC margin 
stock in order to conduct the market-making activity of such a market 
^ k e r , the maximum loan value of any OTC margin stock (except stock 
that has been identified as a security held for investment pursuant to 

2395 
- 5 
Q
 rule of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue (Regs, section 1.-1236-1 (d))) 
be determined by the bank in good faith: 
Provided, That in respect 
each auch stock the. OTC market maker shall have filed with the Secu-
rities and Exchange Commission a notice of his intent to begin or continue 
G u
c h market-making activity (Securities and Exchange Commission Form X-17A-
^ 
(1)) snd all other reports required to be filed by market makers in 
margin stock pursuant to a rule of the Commission (Rulel7a~12. (17 CFR 
17a~12)), shall not have ceased to engage in such market-making 
Activity, and shall have a reasonable average rate of inventory turnover 
o*jch stock: And provided further, That the bank shall obtain and 
r c
t a i n in itn records for at least 3 years after such credit is extinguished 
a
 'statement: in conformity with the requirements of Federal Reserve Form 
executed by the OTC market maker who is the recipient of such credit 
011(3
 executed and accepted in good faith-'' by a duly authorized officer 
the bank prior to such extension. 
In determining whether or not an 
^ t e n s i o n of credit is for the purpose, of conducting such market-making 
^ t t v i f y , a bank may rely on such, a statement if executed and accepted 
&ccordanco with the requirements of this paragraph (w) and paragraph 
k*) of this section. 
•k 
•.'„• 
vV 
"fc 
(y) Third"market maker exemption. 
(1) 
In the caoe of credit 
^ t e n d e d to a third-market oaker, as defined in subparagraph (2) of this 
Paragraph (y), for the purpose of purchasing or carrying a stock that is 

2835 
- 6 -
registered on a national securities exchange (other than a convertible debt 
security described in paragraph (t) (1) of this section) in order to 
conduct the market-making activity of such a market maker, the maximum 
loan v a l u e of: any stock (except (i) a convertible debt security described in 
Paragraph (t) (l) of this section, and (ii) stock that has been identi-
fied as a security held f.or investment pursuant to a rule of the Commis-
sioner of Internal Revenue (Regs, section l-1236-l(d))> shall be deter-
mined by the bank in good faith: 
Provided,. That in respect of each such 
stock he shrill, at least five full business days prior to such extension 
credit, have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a 
Notice of his intent to begin or continue such market-ranking cctivity, 
thereafter all other reports required to be filed by third-market makers 
Pursuant to a rule, of the Securities, and-.Exchange Cotcrcission and, except 
a u c h activity is unlawful, shall not have ceased to engage in such 
barker-making activity: 
And provided further, That the bank shall obtain 
and retain in its records for at least 3 years after such credit is 
^ i n g u i s h e d a statement in conformity with the requirements of Federal 
Reserve Form 
executed by the third-market maker who is the recipient 
10/ 
s u c h credit and executed and accepted in good f a i t h — 
by a duly 
Authorised officer of: the bank prior to such extension. 
In determining 
Whether or not an extension of credit is for the purpose of conducting 
such market-making activity, n bank may rely on such a statement, if 
A&/^A^^escITbed^Trrparagr^apTTTa) of this section. 

23*1? 
- 7 -
executed and accepted in accordance with the requirements of this 
Paragraph (y) and paragraph (a) of this section, 
(2) A third-market maker with respect to a stock that is 
Registered on a national securities exchange is a dealer ttho has and 
Maintains net capital, as defined in a rule cf the Securities and 
^ c h a n g e Commission (Rule 15c3-l (17 CFR 240.15c3-l)) , or in the 
c
apital rules of. an exchange of which he is a member if the members 
thereof arc exempt therefrom by Rule 15c3-l(b)(2) of the Commission 
(
1
' CFR 240.13c3-l(b)(2)), cf $100,000 plus $20,000 for each stock in 
of five in respect of which he has filed and not withdrawn a 
n
°tice with the Securities and Exchange Commission (but in tic case 
d
°es this subparagraph (2) require net capital of more than $500,000) 
V;
ho ic; i n compliance with such rule of the Commission and w h o , 
except when such activity is unlawful, meets all the following 
c
°nditionc> with respect to such stock; 
(i) He furnishes bona fide, 
competitive hid and offer quotations to other brokers and dealers, 
^ H t h e "stocks for which he makes a market, at all times on request, 
he is ready, willing, and able to effect transactions for 
l l i s
 own account in reasonable amounts, and at his quoted priccs, 
T
'*th other brokers and dealers, and (iii) he has a reasonable 
e v s
t a g e rate of inventory turnover in the stock. 

28f}8 
- 8 -
(3) If all or a portion of the credit extended pursuant to this 
Paragraph (y) ceases to be for the purpose specified in subparagraph (1) 
this paragraph or the dealer to whom the credit is extended ceases 
t o
 be a third-market maker as defined in subparagraph (2) of this para-
graph, the credit or such portion thereof shall thereupon be treated as 
"
a
 credit; subject to 5 221. 1". 
(z) Block positioner exemption. 
(1) 
In the case of credit 
e
*tended to a block positioner, as defined in subparagraph (2) of this 
Paragraph 
(z), for the puiuose of financing the activity of block posi-
tioning, the maximum loan value of any margin stock obtained in the 
°rdinsry course of the activity of block positioning as described in 
S u b
para^raph (2) of this paragraph (z) (except (i) a convertible debt secu-
described in paragraph (t) (1) of this section and (ii) stock that 
h
as been identified as a security held for investment pursuant to a rule 
c f
 the Commissioner of. Internal Revenue (Regs, section 1-1236-1 (d))) 
8
hall be determined by the bank in good faith: 
Provided, That in respect 
. 
—. 
o f
 such activity he shall have filed with the Securities and Exchange 
C o
^ i s s i o n n notice of undertaking such activity as prescribed by the 
E m i s s i o n , and all reports required to be filed by block-positioners: 
^•!-i>rovided further, That the bank shall obtain and retain in its 
rG
eordji for at least 3 years after such credit is extinguished a state-
r
"ent j.n conformity with the requirements of Federal Reserve Form U-b and 
Paragraph ( a ) 0 f this sections executed by the block positioner who is 

2339 
~ 9 ~ 
th
<e recipient of such credit and executed and accepted in good f a i t h H ' 
b
y a duly authorized officer of the bank prior to such extension. 
In 
determining whether or not an extension of credit is for the purpose of 
conducting such block positioning activity, a bank may rely on such a 
statement if executed and accepted in accordance with the requirements 
this paragraph (z) and paragraph (a) of this section. 
In determining 
A e t h e r or not an extension of time has been granted pursuant to sub-
Paragraph (4) of this paragraph (z) and whether or not such extension 
time is commensurate with the circumstances the bank may rely on o 
statement executed by an officer of the exchange or association on 
b
*hal£ of the committee in conformity with the requirements of Federal 
keserve Form U-6 and paragraph (a) of this section. 
(2) A block positioner is a dealer who (i) is registered 
v?
i-th the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 15 of the 
P u r i t i e s 
E x c h a n g e Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o> and has a minimum net 
**pital, as defined in a rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
** (Rule 15c3-1 (17 CFR 240.15c3~l» or in the capital rules of an exchange 
o f w h i c h he is a member if the members thereof are exempt therefrom by 
U u
* e 
15c3~l(b)(2) of the Commission (17 CFR 240.1.5c3~l(b) (2)), of 
w U U o n , ( U > cngcgea-Ui tho activity-of puTchcsins long or selling cbort 
principal, from time to time, from or to a customer (other than a 
^ r t n e r or a joint venture or other entity in which a partner of the 
S T ^ K r d Z s ^ T i ^ r i r ^ ^ ^ p H 
Of this section. 

2409 
- 10 -
dealer, or the denier itself, participates or a person "associated with" 
such dealer cs defined in section 3(a)(18) of the Securities Exchange 
A c
t of 1934) a block of stock (other than a convertible debt security ss 
described i n paragraph (t)(l) of this section) with a current market 
v
alue of $200,000 or more in a single transaction or in several trans-
i t i o n s at approximately the same time from a single source to facili-
tate a sale or purchase by such customer, (iii) certifies to the lending 
bank that he has determined in the exercise of reasonable diligence that 
th
»e block could not be sold to or purchased from others on equivalent 
better terms, and (iv) sells the shares comprising such block as 
Rapidly as possible commensurate with the circumstances. 
In the case 
V J
W \ . c block positioner acquires a block from a broker who acts as 
agent for several sellers, such acquisition shall be deemed for purposes 
this section to be an acquisition from a single source. 
(3) No credit shall be extended or maintained pursuant to 
this paragraph (z) in respect of any such block of stock or portion 
thereof which the block positioner has held continuously for more than 
20 business days, end any credit extended pursuant to this paragraph <e) 
shall he extinguished or brought into conformity with the initial margin 
Acquirements of §§ 221.1 and 221.4 before the expiration of such 20-day 
Pevicd. For the purposes of this subparagraph, a block or portion thereof 
c V l
« U be treated as not having been held continuously only to the extent 

2401 
- li -
that there has been a net sale (or In the ease-, of short positions, net 
Purchase) of such securities (whether or not represented by the same 
certificate) during ouch 20-day period* 
(4) 
In exceptional cases the 20-day period specified in sub-
Paragraph (3) of this paragraph (z) may on the application of the block-
Positioner, be extended for one or more periods limited to 5 business 
< % c each commensurate with the circumstances by any regularly consti-
^tc-.d committee of a national securities exchange having jurisdiction 
0 v
e r the business conduct of its members, of which the block positioner 
*
Q
 a member or through which his block transaction was effected, or by 
a
 c circuit tee of a national securities association^ if effected in the 
over-the-counter market: 
Provided, That such committee is satisfied 
t h
* t the block-positioner is acting in good faith in making the appli-
cation and that the circumstances in fact warrant such treatment. 
Footnote 9 in 5 221.4 (the Supplement) of Part 221 is redesignated 
^ 
footnote 12. 
These amendments are issued pursuant to section 7 of the Securitie 
Act of 1934 (IS U.S.C. 70g). 
Effective _date: 
October 16, 1972. 
Bv order of the Board of Governors, September 7 , 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A . Greenspan 
. 
^"jichael A . Greens pa n, 
ISKAri 
As3iatcnt..Secretary of the Board. 

2 4
n
2 
B O A R D 
D P 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
9/7/72 
OF' 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C f A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 5, 1972 
M r . John T. Boysen 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 
64190 
Dear M r . Boysen: 
The Board authorizes the Bank to enter into a 
contractual agreement with the Thomas Construction Company 
of St. Joseph in the amount of $1,711,090, and to reestablish 
the total program budget cost in an amount not to exceed 
$2,024,000 as described in your letter of August 25, 1972 
for the restoration and renovation work of present Bank 
building. 
Very truly your 
(Signed) Michael A . Greenspan 
Michael A . Greenspan 
Assistan t Sec re tar y 

2403 
Item No. 4 
9/7/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANK OF VIRGINIA COMPANY* 
Order Approving Retention of Rusch Factors, Inc. 
Bank of Virginia Company, Richmond, Virginia, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f
or the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
o f
 the Board's Regulation Y , to retain all of the voting shares of Rusch 
factors, Inc. ("Rusch"), Richmond, Virginia, a company that engages in 
the activities of full notification and nonnotification factoring of 
a c
counts receivable, secured and unsecured commercial financing \<rithout 
restriction as to the nature of security taken, including but not limited 
t o
 providing guarantees of letters of credit and issuing letters of 
guaranty of any kind. 
Such activities have been determined by the Board 
t o
 be closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
A r s o n s to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
keen duly published (37 Federal Register 7951). The time for filing 
c
°mments and views has expired, and none have been timely received. 
Applicant, parent holding company of Bank of Virginia - Central, 
Richmond, ("Bank"), controls sixteen banks with aggregate deposits of 
^
7 8
1 . 1 million, representing 8.5 per cent of the total deposits in commer-
c
*al banks in Virginia. 
Bank is the third largest banking institution in 
— 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc. changed its name to Bank of 
i r
ginia Company during the processing of this application. 

2404 
-2-
Richmond SMSA and it controls 19 per cent of deposits in that market. 
applicant
f
 s nonbanking subsidiaries include both domestic and foreign 
factoring companies, a leasing corporation and a mortgage company. 
Rusch, with offices in Barrington, Rhode Island, New York, New 
and Richmond, Virginia, is an "old-line" factoring company originally 
established in 1827 and acquired by Applicant under § 4(c)(5) of the Bank 
hiding Company Act in July, 1969."^ 
Under § 4(c)(5), Rusch is not authorized 
t o
 conduct full service factoring operations at locations other than such 
N a t i o n s x^here Applicant's subsidiary banks are authorized to engage in 
b 
2/ 
U s
iness.~ 
Applicant now seeks permission to operate Rusch under authority 
°
f §
 ^(c)(8) so that Rusch would not be subject to the "loan production" 
r
*
s
triction at its New York and Rhode Island offices and could engage in 
f u
-U service factoring activities at those offices. 
Since Applicant's acquisition of Rusch in 1969, its factored 
^counts outstanding have increased from $52.2 million to $99.1 million, 
ft 
S c
h has only a small share of the New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, 
^
a
ssachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont factoring markets where total 
°
u
tstanding factored accounts of Rusch's major competitors are approximately 
$ 6
 billion. 
Prior to June 30, 1971, a bank holding company could, under § 4(c)(5), 
^
 e
ctly acquire shares of a corporation to perform, at locations at which 
Jj
e
 bank is authorized to engage in business, functions, such as factoring, 
^at national banks are empowered to perform directly (12 CFR 7.1105; 
4(e)-, 250.141). 
^ 
Rusch's offices in New York and Rhode Island are "loan production offices" 
Rusch may solicit loans, assemble credit information, prepare appli-
a
tions for loans, and perform other similar agent type activities for Rusch's 
ain office in Richmond, Virginia. 

240' 
-3-
Applicant has a factoring subsidiary located in Canada and its 
subsidiary banks located in Virginia engage to some extent in the same 
^ P e of commercial financing engaged in by Rusch. The factoring activi-
ties of Applicant's subsidiaries, other than Rusch, appear to be insubstan-
tial in Rusch
?
s primary service areas. The Board therefore concludes that 
the proposed retention of Rusch by Applicant would not have any significant 
adverse effect on either existing or potential competition in any relevant 
area. 
There is no evidence in the record to indicate that the proposed 
r e
tention would lead to an undue concentration of resources, conflicts of 
i n
terest, or unsound banking practices. 
Some benefits may accrue to the 
Public through the proposed retention, since Applicant would be able to 
o f
fer full service factoring, rather than merely loan production facilities 
t o
 its customers in New York and Rhode Island, thereby possibly providing 
m
°re competition to the larger factoring companies. 
In its consideration of the application, the Board noted that 
applicant has substantial short-term debt, utilized to carry receivables 
o f
 nonbank subsidiaries. 
In addition, Applicant has issued significant 
l o n g - t e r m d e b t primarily to make additions to the capital accounts of its 
Subsidiary banks and affiliated companies and to acquire foreign companies, 
^ t h o u g h Applicant's resulting overall debt level is relatively high in 
r e
lation to other bank holding companies, each of Applicant's nonbank 
S u
bsidiaries has been profitable and each appears to have a reasonable 
C a
Pital base. Moreover, Applicant and its subsidiaries are considered 
C a
Pably managed. 

Based on the foregoing circumstances, the Board concludes that 
t h
® financial and managerial factors are consistent with approval and 
that the public interest considerations reflected in the record are 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is approved. This determination 
is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and 
t o
 the Board's authority to require such modification or termination of 
the a c t i v i t i e s of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the 
B
°ard finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and 
Purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued there-
under, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"" effective September
 8
, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
a
*d Sheehan. Absent and not voting-. Governors Robertson, Daane, and Bucher. 

24n7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
9/7/72 
BANK OF VIRGINIA COMPANY* 
Crder Approving Acquisition of Richmond Finance Corporation 
and Hanover Mortgage Corporation 
Bank of Virginia Company, Richmond, Virginia, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f
or the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
o f
 the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of 
Richmond Finance Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, a company that 
e n
8 a g e s in the activity of making personal loans or extensions of credit 
t o
 individuals, and acting as agent for credit life, accident and health 
insurance in connection with such loans; and (2) Hanover Mortgage Corpora-
•.j 
°
n
> Richmond, Virginia, a company that engages in the activity of making 
mortgage loans principally secured by junior liens on commercial, resi-
dential and unimproved real estate, and acting as agent for credit life, 
a
ccide nt and health insurance in connection with such loans. 
Such 
a c
tivities have been determined by the Board to be closely related to 
t h e
 business of banking. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views on the public interest 
factors has been duly published (37 Federal Register 12188). The time 
filing comments and views has expired, and none have been timely 
deceived. 
•jr***— 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc. changed its name to 
ank of Virginia Company during the processing of this application. 

2-
2408 
Applicant, parent holding company of Bank of Virginia-Central, 
Richmond 
("Bank"), controls fifteen other banks in other markets with 
a
SBregate deposits of $781,1 million, representing 8.5 per cent of the 
t o t
a l commercial deposits in Virginia. Bank is the third largest bank-
i n
S Institution in the Richmond Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area 
( SMSA"), where it holds 19 per cent of deposits in that market. Ap-
plicant's nonbanking subsidiaries include both domestic and foreign 
factoring companies, a leasing corporation and a mortgage company. 
of Applicant's nonbanking subsidiaries are engaged in making 
c
°nsumer loans and the loans of its mortgage company are primarily 
Sec
ured by first liens on real estate. 
Richmond Finance Corporation is engaged in the business of 
^king small loans to individuals secured primarily by liens on used 
tn0t
°
r
 vehicles. 
It competes with sixteen other small loan companies 
^ e Richmond SMSA and based on its decline in volume of business 
($1 
9 l
»255,000 in 1968 to $576,000 in 1971) offers but limited competition 
to f-u 
«-neSe competitors. Uhile Bank, on occasion, extends credit for the 
P u r
chase of used cars, there is no significant existing competition 
J e e n
 Bank and Richmond Finance Corporation in the consumer small 
market. * 
Hanover Mortgage Corporation ("Hanover"), is engaged in the 
k^Sin 
^ e s s of making loans to individuals for its own account secured 
"•arily by second mortgages on real estate. As of January 31, 1972, 
9
&over held total outstanding mortgage loans of $2.3 
million, 

-3-
2409 
^presenting approximately 3 per cent of all second mortgage loans 
outstanding in the Richmond SMSA, Bank's second mortgage loans in 
tl
^e market area are nominal ($498,000) and, in view of bank regulations 
restricting the eligibility of loans secured by junior liens, not likely 
t o
 increase substantially. 
The Board therefore concludes that consum-
p t i o n of the proposed acquisition of Hanover would have no significant 
adverse effects on existing competition, nor foreclose the development 
o f
 future competition. 
Financial factors, as discussed in an accompanying order of 
today's date involving Applicant's proposed retention of Rusch Factors, 
l n c
. , are consistent with approval. Acquisition of Richmond Finance 
Corporation and Hanover will not place additional demands on Applicant's 
e
arnings or adversely affect Applicant's financial condition in any 
banner. 
Approval of each acquisition will make available to Richmond 
finance Corporation and Hanover the financial resources of Applicant 
enable both companies to better serve their customers and provide 
m
°re effective competition to their competitors in the market area, 
^ e resulting benefits in terms of public needs and convenience, and 
increased competition x^ould, in the Board's judgment, outweigh any 
Possible adverse effect on competition. 
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
the record, the Board hereby approves the applications. 
This determina-
tion is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of 

-4-
2410 
Regulation Y and to the Board
f
s authority to require such modification 
°
r
 termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
°rders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective September $, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
l/^r* 
j 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
dimmer, and Sheehan, Absent and not voting: 
Governors Robertson, 
a n e
j and Bucher. 

^ i j j K f / 
VI 
; i .•-
2 . I y j 
4tJLjL 
For immediate release 
i.viiii--^. 
Item No. 6 
9/7/72 
September 7, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System proposed 
today to reduce its reserve requirements on certain foreign borrowings 
of U.S. banks, primarily Euro-dollars, from 20 per cent to 10 per cent 
and to eliminate the reserve-free bases now available to banks subject 
to these requirements. 
Normally v the Board does not offer proposed changes in reserve 
requirement percentages for public comment but is doing so in this case 
because the proposal Involves a restructuring of the reserve requirement 
on E u r o - d o l l a b o r r o w i n gs. 
The proposal would simplify the regulation in this field and 
provide parallel treatment for all member banks subject to reserve re-
quirements on Euro-dollar transactions, irrespective of their past use 
of Euro-dollar borrowings. The Euro-dollar reserve requirement was im-
posed in 1969 to moderate short-term dollar flows between the U.S. and 
other countries. 
Comment or. the proposal a h o l d be submitted Co the Board within 
90 days. 
The reserve requirement ooa set in 1969 at 10 per cant to the 
w * e n L that borrowings exceeded the daily overage amount of foreign 
borrowing
8
 in a specified base period (or, alternatively, a specified 
percentage of total 
toU^-the 
so-called reserve-free base. 
The 
tfgp.ul.Htio'.. p r o d d e d Chr.t as S«ro~dollar borrowings were repaid a bank's 
reserve-.£.Sfi i 
vould bo lowered autowtJ rally, and thus served to 
vo^evnte tb« « t O w 
->»• r»payi«Mrt» to foreign banking systems. 

2412 
- 2~ 
In. November of 1970, the reserve ratio was increased to 20 
per cer-t to give banks an added incentive to preserve their bases at 
substantial levels. At that time, the Board indicated it would review 
^ e reserve ratio as circumstances warranted. 
At the time of the original action in 1969, liabilities of 
banks to their foreign branches had more than doubled over a seven-
Won'th period and had reached $14.6 billion by July 30, 1969. As monetary 
conditions in the U.S. eased, U.S. banks repaid their Euro-dollar borrow-
and repayments accelerated after mid-1970. 
In recent months, such 
borrowings have been relatively small, fluctuating in the range of $1 
Million and $1-3/4 billion. 
On Wednesday, August 30, gross liabilities 
U.S. banks to their foreign branches totaled $1-1/4 billion. 
Elimination of the reserve-free base would have little practical 
^ f e c t for most banks. 
Only a few U.S. banks have continued to borrow 
in the Euro-dollar market this year. 
The proposal would amend the Board's Regulation 11 which governs 
£oreion activities of member banks, and Regulation D which governs reserves 
nemoer banks. A copy of the proposal is attached. 
-0-

TITLE 1 2 — B A N K S AND BANKING 
CHAPTER. II-—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A — B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. D , M] 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
PART 213--FOREIGN ACTIVITIES Or NATIONAL BANKS 
Reserves Against Eurodollar Borrowings 
Notice cf Proposed Rule Making 
The Board of Governors is considering amending Parts 204 and 
^ 
reduce reserve requirements against certain transactions usually 
evolving so-called "Eurodollars" — d e p o s i t s of U , S, dollars with banks 
ceto'j outside the United States, including overseas branches of U.S. 
b" 
*
n,ra
«• The proposed amendments would apply a general reserve require-
ment of K) per cent to liabilities cf member banks upon Eurodollar 
bo-l o w i n g o from foreign banks and to foreign branch deposits of member 
l} PS1 
« 
'•uics that support; transactions of such branches with the domestic 
of their parent banks and credits extended by such branches to 
^ U t e d States residents. 
This reserve requirement would, replace a margin-
l
'er,crve requirement of 20 per cent which applies to the excess of such 
A b i l i t i e s over reserve-free bases that are provided for under current 
e
8u):oLions, The changes would eliminate such reserve-free bases and 
also eliminate a special exemption—affecting small amounts of 
C i ? o d
i t to U.S. residents — that had been granted for the purpose of 
^fctating the administrative burden on the banks in adjusting the 
J
P®i:ations of their foreign branches to a now type of reserve require-

o> J A 
-2, 
The change would reduce the rate of reserve requirements to 
rate that prevailed before a special increase instituted in 
^
0
vembe r of 1970, and at the same time would simplify the regulations 
apply the reserve requirements equally to all member banks regard-
' s of their past use of Eurodollar borrowings. 
Normally the Board does not offer proposed changes in reserve 
merit, percentages for public comment (see section 262.2(e) of the 
Bo 
1
s 
Rules of Procedure), " J.n this case, the amendments are being pro-
v e d foe comment because they involve a restructuring of the reserve require 
w &
• 
To aid in the consideration by the Board of this matter, 
it! »• n.. 
<• tested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
Qv . 
^oUnicntr,, Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
Sg 
c ?
e t a r y > Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washing-
'
 } 1?
« C, 
20551, to be received not later than December 6, 1972. 
material will be made available for inspection and copying upon 
except as provided in 5 261,6(a) of the Board's rules regard-
i' 
a
vailabillty of information. 
To implement its proposal, the Board proposes to amend 
' N a t i o n s D and M in the following respects: 
1. Section 204.5(c) of Regulation D would be amended to 
follows: 
(c^ 
Reserve percentages against certain deposits by 
offices. Deposits represented by pcomiapory notes, 
''^ledgements of advance, due bills 
or similar obligations described 

2 4 1 5 
-3' 
j 
, 
y 
•
n
 £> 204,'j.(£) to foreign offices of other banks, 
or to institutions 
time deposits of which are exempt from the rate limitations of 
^Suiatlon Q pursuant to § 217.3(g) thereof, shall not bo subject to 
^ a g r a p h (a) of this section or to § 204.3(a)(1) and (2); but during 
°
ar
-
h
 **eek of the four-week period beginning [ 
, 1973] and 
each successive four-week ("maintenance") period, a member bank 
c
h a U maintain with the Reserve Bank of its district a daily average 
Glance equal to 10 per cent of the daily average amount of such deposit! 
-^ing the four-week computation period ending on the Wednesday fifteen 
' 
before the beginning of the maintenance period, An excess or 
dr- f
1
 
• 
LClc>
.'tcy in reserves in any week of a maintenance period under this 
Paragraph shall be subject to 5 204.3(a)(3), nn if computed under 
^ 
(2), and deficiencies under this paragraph shall be subject 
, 
9/ 
l o
 ^ 2 0 4 . 3 ( b ) f 
2, Section 213.7(a) of Regulation M would bo amended to 
C
°'
ad
 as follows: 
(a) 
Transactions with parent bank. During each week of. 
1 1 , 0
 four-wec-k period beginning [ 
. 1973] and during each 
o 
f 
Any b 7 i ^ i n g " o H i c e located outside the States of the United 
f1 
end the District of Columbia cf a bank organized under 
" t i l t ? . . . . 
or foreign law. 
9/ 
. 'fhe tern "computation period" in 5 204. (a) (3) and (b) shall, for 
.^V* Purpose, be deemed to refer to each week of a maintenance period 
vi.n paragraph* 

2416 
Week 
each successive four-week ("maintenance") period, a member bank 
having one or more foreign branches shall maintain with the Reserve Bank 
*
 l t :
s district, as a reserve against its foreign branch deposits* a 
d a i
l y average balance equal to 10 per cent of the daily average total of 
(1) 
net balances due from its domestic offices 
to such branches, and 
(2) 
assets (including participations) held by such 
branches which were acquired from its domestic 
offices (other than assets representing credit 
extended to persons not residents of the United 
States) 
A _ , 
a l n
B the four-week computation period ending on the Wednesday fifteen 
before the beginning of the maintenance period. 
3. Section 213.7(b) of Regulation M would be amended to 
t e a
* an follows; 
(b) 
Credit extended to United S t a t e s L J ^ A ^ m t s . 
During 
week of the four-week period beginning [ 
, 1973] and 
each week of each successive four-week maintenance period, a 
^ e r bank having one or more foreign branches shall maintain with 
deserve Bank of its district, as a reserve against its foreign branch 
p 0 s i
tfi i a daily average balance equal to 10 per cent of the daily 
Utyo.M 
credit outstanding from such branches to United States 

t 
7/ 
•oXuonts 
(other than assets acquired and net: balances due from its 
do 
l(
&stie offices) during the four-week computation period ending on 
Wednesday fifteen days before the beginning of the maintenance 
t^iod. 
Provided t 
That this paragraph does not apply to credit ex-
to enable the borrower to comply with the requirements of 
Off J 
§/ 
••
tice
 
Of: Foreign. Direct Investments., Department of Commerce, 
under binding commitments entered into before September 8, 1972, 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 7, 1972. 
Michael A , Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Hoard 
Ml
 
A n
y Individual residing (at the time the credit is extended) 
t o
W -
 
S
J
: a t e 
o f 
t h o
 United States or the District of Columbia; (b) any 
( % u
r a t
! "
o n
' p a r t n e r s h i p a s s o c i a t i o n or other entity organized therein 
of 
corporation'
1
) ; and (e) t^ny branch or office located therein 
W n ^
 
e D t i t :
y wherever organized. 
Credit extended to a foreign 
("fotoj
 o i
' -
i c e
? subsidiary, affiliate or other foreign establishment 
ti0)i0
 
S n
 _ affiJ late") controlled by one or more such domestic corpora-
^nt^/f^
3
 ^
 n o t
 '
J0
 deemed to be credit extended to a United States rssi-
Proceeds will be used in its foreign business or that of 
• foreign affiliates of the controlling domestic corporation(s) t 
0/ 
VI 
U
V C 
branch may in good faith rely on the borrower's certification 
f m d v will be so used. 
