609 
Minutes for January 11, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
\ 

77 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 11, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Forrestal, Plotkin, Via, and Shuter of 
the Legal Division 
Mr. Thompson of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Lyon and Maguire of the Division of 
Examinations 
Approved letters. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item numbers indicated, were approved 

7 8 
1/11/67 
-10-
unanimously after consideration of background material that had been 
made available to the Board: 
Item No. 
Letter to Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
1 
Pennsylvania, granting an extension of time 
to establish an in-town branch. 
Letter to Amalgamated Trust & Savings Bank, 
2 
Chicago, Illinois, waiving the requirement 
of six months' notice of withdrawal from 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation regarding the application of 
Heights State Bank, Houston, Texas, for 
continuation of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Letter to Packers National Bank, Omaha, 
Nebraska, granting its request for per-
mission to carry reduced reserves. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York approving its acting as fiscal agent 
of the Inter-American Development Bank in 
connection with a proposed bond issue. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago granting a request from the 
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint, 
Michigan, for an extension of time within 
which to register as a bank holding company. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of North Madison 
Bank, Madison, Indiana, by The Madison Bank and Trust Company, Madison, 
4 
5 

79 
1/11/67 
-10-
Indiana, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 
liabilities of North Madison Bank, Madison, by The Madison 
Bank and Trust Company would eliminate a significant amount 
of competition between the two institutions and would reduce 
from three to two the alternate sources of banking services 
in Madison. The overall competitive effect of the proposed 
transaction is clearly adverse. 
Application of Security Bank and Trust Company. At its meeting 
on January 9, 1967, the Board had given preliminary consideration to an 
application under the emergency provisions of the Bank Merger Act by 
Security Bank and Trust Company, Lincoln Park, Michigan, for permission 
to merge First National Bank of Allen Park, Allen Park, Michigan. In 
the course of discussion, several members of the Board had expressed 
some concern over the anticompetitive effect that would result from con-
summation of the proposal, and felt that before making a decision it 
should be ascertained that there were, in fact, no reasonable alterna-
tives. In particular, it was desired that information be obtained con-
cerning a representation made to the staff by Mr. Robert A. Sanregret, 
an attorney from Wyandotte, Michigan, that a group of investors he 
represented were interested in acquiring control of the Allen Park bank. 
(Under date of January 10 there had been distributed a memorandum from 
the Division of Examinations relating to further exploration of the 
Sanregret proposition; also a memorandum transmitting the competitive 
factor report of the Department of Justice.) 

s o 
1/11/67 
-4-
Governor Robertson said he had called the Comptroller of the 
Currency to discuss the possibility of resolving First National's pre-
carious situation in some way other than by the proposed merger. He 
reported that the Comptroller believed all possible alternatives had 
been explored, without success, for saving the bank without elimination 
of competition. As for Mr. Sanregret's proposal, this was not regarded 
as a feasible alternative. Mr. Sanregret had declined to identify his 
principals, so no assessment could be made in that regard, and there 
was no indication that he had contacted First National's directors to 
submit an offer. 
In light of the foregoing, and in view of the need for expedi-
tious action, Governor Robertson expressed the opinion that there was 
no recourse other than to permit the merger to take place. There being 
general agreement with this evaluation, the application was approved 
unanimously. 
Several suggestions were made concerning points that should be 
covered in the Board's statement on this matter, and it was understood 
that the staff would bear them in mind in preparing an order and state-
ment for the Board's consideration. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation 0. At its meeting on November 2, 
1966, the Board tentatively approved an amendment to Regulation 0 (Loans 
to Executive Officers of Member Banks) exempting from its restrictions 
indebtedness incurred in connection with charge account transactions. 

S 1 
1/11/67 
-5-
This action was conditioned upon a finding by the Legal Division that 
certain questions raised by a Boston attorney regarding applicability 
of the amendment to operations under certain bank credit card plans did 
not present problems that should have further consideration by the Board. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Divi-
sion dated January 4, 1967, in which it was stated that the Division had 
reconsidered the proposed amendment in light of its application to bank 
credit card plans and the possibility that the exemption of indebtedness 
incurred by executive officers under such plans might open the door to 
evasions of the purposes of the law. 
Mr. Hackley explained that the amendment as originally proposed 
had been addressed to exempting indebtedness incurred through national 
or local credit card companies or similar agencies where the seller 
assigned evidence of such indebtedness to a bank for collection. The 
bank credit card plan referred to by the Boston attorney, on the other 
hand, involved execution of a form by the card-holder requesting the 
issuing bank to make direct payment to merchants for the amount of his 
purchases, thereby giving rise to direct and immediate indebtedness to 
the bank rather than to the merchant. Under such plans, the credit 
appraisal was made by the bank rather than the store; and, under some 
card plans, while stores were authorized to honor the cards up to a 
stated amount without further inquiry, they could be honored for greater 
amounts if the store checked with the bank and obtained approval. Thus, 

82 
1/11/67 
-10-
an executive officer might be able to use his card to buy a $10,000 
diamond ring if the jeweler secured clearance from the officer's bank. 
Mr. Hackley commented that it would be difficult to distinguish such 
an extension of credit from a direct loan by the bank to the officer 
for the same purpose, and therefore such transactions might defeat the 
intent of the statute. 
After careful consideration, the Legal Division had concluded 
that the proposed amendment should be modified so as clearly to exempt 
credit extended under bank credit card plans, but with limitations 
that would minimize any "personal" features of such plans and that 
would reduce the possibility of abuse or evasion. These limitations 
would exclude from the exemption (1) any transaction subject to indi-
vidual clearance by the bank and (2) credit extensions by any one bank 
(whether by the officer's own bank or by another bank) aggregating more 
than $1,000. Thus, credit extensions by a member bank to one of its 
executive officers as a result of its acquisition of charge accounts or 
the use of the bank's credit card plan would be disregarded if they fell 
within these limitations; similarly, such credit extensions to the exec-
utive officer by another bank would not be subject to the reporting 
requirements of the law and Regulation 0 if such extensions of credit 
were not subject to individual clearance and did not exceed $1,000. It 
was recommended that notice of such a proposed amendment be published in 
the Federal Register for comment. 

83 
1/11/67 
-10-
Governor Brimmer observed that there was a comprehensive study 
of bank credit card plans contemplated, and that there were persons at 
several Reserve Banks who had considerable knowledge about such plans 
and might be able to contribute valuable insight into the implications 
of this form of credit arrangement. In view of these facts, he sug-
gested that the Board might wish to defer publication of the proposed 
amendment pending consultation with Reserve Bank personnel. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the proposed amendment involved 
a relatively small problem, but one that was a source of irritation to 
the banking industry. In his view, no bank officer would abuse credit 
privileges that involved carrying charges amounting to 18 per cent or 
more per year, and he favored adopting an amendment to Regulation 0 
without further delay. In fact, he believed that the amendment tenta-
tively approved at the November 2 meeting was adequate, and he did not 
see the need for the proposed addition limiting bank credit card arrange-
ments. 
Governor Brimmer replied that he did not feel the Board had 
enough factual information. In his opinion any disadvantage to defer-
ring action on the proposed amendment would be clearly outweighed by the 
advantage of being able to make an informed judgment. He was not sug-
gesting that the Board await completion of the comprehensive study; the 
development of information bearing upon the proposed Regulation 0 amend-
ment should require only a relatively short period of time. 

84 
1/11/67 
-10-
Accordingly, at Chairman Martin's suggestion, consideration of 
the proposed amendment was deferred pending the development of addi-
tional information. 
Bank credit card and check credit plans. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from Governor Brimmer dated January 6, 1967, 
presenting an outline of topics to be considered in a study of bank 
credit card and check credit plans, as suggested at the Board meeting 
on October 26, 1966, and a framework for conducting such a study. 
Governor Brimmer commented that Messrs. Young and Smith (Research) 
had been working with him on the preliminary aspects of the study, and 
that it seemed desirable to obtain roughly the sort of information indi-
cated by the topic headings. He proposed that the Conference of Presi-
dents' Committee on Research be informed of the Board's desire that a 
System study be initiated, thus clearing the way for the appointment 
of an ad hoc task force consisting of Board and Reserve Bank personnel 
to steer the work in this area. The System Research Advisory Committee 
had concurred in such an approach. 
Governor Robertson stated that in his opinion it would be desir-
able to enlarge the scope of the study to include all credit card plans 
that involved bank financing. He also believed it would be desirable 
for the study to embrace bank supervisory considerations; if so, it 
would seem helpful to have the examining function represented on the 
task force. 

85 
1/11/67 
-10-
Governor Brimmer replied that it had seemed preferable to con-
fine the study initially to gathering and analyzing information rather 
than to include regulatory considerations, because he did not think it 
desirable to give banks the impression that the study was oriented 
toward supervisory concern. At a later stage, however, the question 
of regulatory problems and how to deal with them would no doubt come 
into play. He added that the proposal to confine the study initially 
to bank credit card plans reflected the fact that the Board's primary 
concern was with the banking system and monetary problems. It also 
reflected the thought that it was desirable to keep the scope of the 
study within reasonable bounds. 
Governor Maisel noted that the Board had a continuing interest 
in consumer credit developments, and for this reason he would favor 
obtaining information on credit card usage on as broad a base as seemed 
feasible in order to fill gaps in the existing body of consumer credit 
data available to the Board. 
Governor Mitchell concurred, and expressed the opinion that the 
study should at least embrace credit card plans involving bank financ-
ing, as suggested by Governor Robertson. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that the suggestions that had been 
made would be borne in mind. 
The proposed study was thereupon authorized, with the under-
standing that plans for conducting the study would be made in the manner 
outlined by Governor Brimmer. 

86 
1/11/67 
-10-
During the course of the foregoing discussion, Mr. Solomon, 
Adviser to the Board, entered the room; at its conclusion most of the 
staff members who had been present withdrew from the meeting. 
Director appointment. It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City whether Henry Y. 
Kleinkauf, President, Natkin & Company, Omaha, Nebraska, would accept 
appointment, if tendered, as a director of the Omaha Branch for the 
unexpired portion of the term ending December 31, 1968, with the under-
standing that if it were found that he would accept, the appointment 
would be made. 
Secretary's Note: It having been ascer-
tained that Mr. Kleinkauf would accept the 
appointment if tendered, an appointment 
telegram was sent to him today. 
Access of General Accounting Office to reports of examination. 
Governor Robertson reported that the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regu-
lation would meet tomorrow and would discuss a proposal by the General 
Accounting Office that the Federal Deposit Insurance Act be amended to 
permit its auditors to review reports of examination in the course of 
their annual audit of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. This 
authority was claimed to be necessary in order to permit evaluation, for 
purpose of making audit reports, of the degree to which the Corporation 
was exercising proper supervision to protect the insurance fund. He 
noted that the access sought would be to reports of examination of all 
insured banks, not only the Corporation's reports. In his opinion, the 

87 
1/11/67 
-10-
cooperative attitude of banks toward examinations could be compromised 
if the tradition of confidentiality of such reports was not preserved. 
It was unanimously agreed that Governor Robertson should take 
a position on behalf of the Board in support of the adverse position of 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Interest rate legislation. Governor Robertson also reported 
that the Federal Home Loan Bank Board desired to gain support for a 
recommendation that the President include in his Economic Report a pro-
posal to extend the one-year life of legislation passed in September 
1966 providing broadened regulatory authority with respect to maximum 
rates of interest on share accounts or deposits. He expressed the view 
that it would be preferable to accumulate as much information and experi-
ence under this legislation as possible before taking a position either 
for or against its extension, and that it would not be advisable to make 
recommendations immediately. Other members of the Board indicated gen-
eral agreement with Governor Robertson's proposal to express himself to 
such effect. 
Balance of payments. Governor Daane reported that the Cabinet 
Committee on the Balance of Payments had submitted a report to the 
President on the balance of payments program for 1967, and he briefly 
reviewed the proposals therein. 
Meeting with academic consultants. It was agreed that the next 
meeting of the Board's academic consultants would be scheduled for Friday, 
February 17, 1967. 

88 
1/11/67 
-10-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On January 10, 1967, 
Governor Shepardson approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the 
following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Salary increases 
Henry Edmonds, Grounds Maintenance Worker, Division of Administra-
tive Services, from $5,158 to $5,470 per annum, effective January 15, 
1967. 
Ray M. Reeder, Computer Operations Supervisor, Division of Data 
Processing, from $6,664 to $7,696 per annum, effective January 29, 1967. 
Transfer 
Eleanor E. Omohundro, from the position of Analyst in the Account-
ing and Currency Section to the position of Operations Analyst in the 
Operations Analysis Section, Division of Bank Operations, with no change 
in basic annual salary at the rate of $8,740, effective January 1, 1967. 
Title changes, effective January 15, 1967 
Division of Bank Operations 
Name and present title 
New title 
John C. Franzoni, Technical Assistant 
Operations Analyst 
Kevin M. Raymond, Analyst 
Operations Analyst 
Peter N. Sapsara, Analyst 
Operations Analyst 
Doris V. Bubb, Analyst 
Assistant Operations Analyst 
Gary P. Cochran, Analyst 
Assistant Operations Analyst 
Robert B. Sampson, Analyst 
Assistant Operations Analyst 
Governor Shepardson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (copy attached as 
Item No. 7) approving the appointment of Fred L. Ruf as assistant 
examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (copy attached as 
Item No. 8) approving the designation of Julian G. Shannon as special 
assistant examiner. 

89 
1/11/67 
-13-
Memorandum from Governor Brimmer recommending the appointment of 
Mary Ann Clements as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $9,536, effective January 23, 
1967, it being understood that Mrs. Clements would be subject to assign-
ments from Governor Brimmer. 

90 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No# i 
OF THE 
1/11/67* 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 205S1 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 11, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to April 27, 1967, the time within which 
Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, may 
establish a branch at 3459 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Mi 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/11/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 11, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Amalgamated Trust & Savings Bank, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
Gentlemen: 
^ 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago has forwarded to the 
Board of Governors your letter dated December 27, 1966, together 
with the accompanying resolution dated December 28, 1966, 
signifying your intention to withdraw from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System and requesting waiver of the six months' notice of 
such withdrawal. 
The Board of Governors waives the requirement of six 
months1 notice of withdrawal. Under the provisions of Section 
208.10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your institution may accom-
plish termination of its membership at any time within eight months 
from the date that notice of intention to withdraw from membership 
was given. Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
of the Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, such stock 
will be cancelled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
k \ 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
> 
ADDRESS 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
• 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 11, 1967 
The Honorable K. A..Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Mr. Randall: 
Reference is made to your letter of December 30, 
1966, concerning the application of Heights State Bank, 
Houston, Texas, for continuance of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
There have been no corrective programs urged 
upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been 
fully consummated, and there are no programs that the 
Board would advise be incorporated as conditions of 
admitting the bank to membership in the Corporation as 
a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
9 3 
Item No. 4 
1/11/67 
A O O R E S B O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 11, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Packers National Bank, 
Omaha, Nebraska. 
68107. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, the Board of Governors, 
acting under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, grants permission to the Packers National Bank to maintain 
the same reserves against deposits as are required to be maintained 
by member banks not in a reserve city, effective with the first 
biweekly reserve computation period beginning after the date of 
this letter. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such permission 
is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

94 
BOARD OF 
GOVERNORS 
Item No. 5 
1/11/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 11, 1967 
Mr. F. T. Davis, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Davis: 
This refers to your letter of January 5, 1967, and enclosures, 
concerning the proposed issue by the Inter-American Development Bank 
of its Twenty-Five Year Bonds of 1967, due January 15, 1992, in the 
aggregate principal amount of $50 million. 
The Inter-American 
Development Bank has advised of its intention to appoint your Bank 
as its fiscal agent in connection with this bond issue. pnH in t-M e 
The Board of Governors approves of your Bank acting as 
tiscal agent with respect to the proposed bond issue, and approve 
the execution and delivery by your Bank of an agreement with the 
inter-American Development Bank substantially in the form of the 
draft of Supplement No. 4 to the Fiscal Agency Agreement enclosed 
— ^^ 
/, 17U/-, uetween cne mter-American 
Bank and your Bank to include the bonds in question. 
with your letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

95 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
Item No. 6 
1/11/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 11, 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
P. 0. Box 834, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
This acknowledges your letter of January 3, 1967, 
enclosing a request by the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint, 
Michigan, for an extension of time to May 1, 1967, within which to 
file a registration statement pursuant to the amended Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956.' 
While the Board believes that an additional four months1 
time may be in excess of the Foundation's actual requirements, the 
Board has nevertheless granted the Foundation's request and has 
extended the time within which it must file a registration statement 
until May 1, 1967. It will be appreciated if you will advise the 
Foundation of the Board's action. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
96 
Item No. 7 
1/11/67 
A O O R E B B O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 11, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of January 6, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Fred L. Ruf as an assistant examiner for 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Please advise 
the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

97 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
1/11/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L C O R R C S P O N O C N CC 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 11, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of January 6, 1967, the Board 
approves the designation of Julian G. Shannon as 
a special assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
