FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 11, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

6r2 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 11, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
i I-. 
i 
' C 
v' 
; \> 
Foreign travel program. 
In a memorandum dated February 19, 
i , • 
. 
... 
i 
, - 
.... 
1971, the Office of the Secretary recommended that the Board interpose 
V! i'f 
i 
' ' 
' • , 
. . " 
' 
no objection to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's proceeding in 
accordance with the foreign travel program for 1971 that had been 
r t j 
' • 
,. ; 
. 
. i 
. . . , 
. ; 
.
.
.
. 
. . • 
.
.
.
.
. 
approved by the Bank's directors and was described in a Bank memoran-
dum dated February 4, 1971. 
Governor Daane, Chairman of the Board's Committee on Travel, 
Mentioned certain portions of the program about which the Committee 
had reservations, but indicated that in the view of the Committee the 
best procedure at this point would be to approve the travel program as 
H" 
submitted, bring to the Bank's attention some of the questions that 
/ t!*vs .it 
L * • 'r '..'.:* eh- 
— k: 
.m v> l.:'.> • - T i -V-: 
i/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

GG3 
3/11/71 
-2-
had been raised, and suggest that in the future the Board be given an 
opportunity to consult with the Bank on its plans prior to formal 
approval of the travel program by the Board of Directors. 
There was general agreement with the approach suggested by 
Governor Daane. However, questions were raised as to benefits that 
would accrue from some of the travel proposed, and on the composition 
of Federal Reserve delegations to certain meetings. 
It was suggested 
that if the Board of Governors had an opportunity to participate in 
the planning process at an earlier stage, the travel of all System 
personnel could be better coordinated, and that this purpose might be 
achieved if foreign travel programs for all Reserve Banks were submitted 
to the Committee on Travel in the fall at the time when officers' salaries 
and related matters were under review by the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans. 
In further discussion the lack of cost-benefit analysis on which 
to base a meaningful review was noted, and the scope of responsibility 
of Reserve Bank directors was discussed. 
Mention was also made of the length of time that senior officers 
would be away from the New York Reserve Bank under the proposed travel 
program, and it was suggested that the Board's concern in this regard 
should be made known to the Bank. Consideration was then given to the 
manner in which this and other areas of concern should be brought to 
the attention of the Bank and it was agreed that an appropriate course 

604 
3/11/71 
-16-
would be to include some points in the letter to the Reserve Bank while 
others were pursued informally by the Committee on Travel. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the sending of a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
The Committee on Travel was requested to consider what procedure would 
be most appropriate for the review and coordination of prospective 
Reserve Bank foreign travel programs in the future, and to take steps 
to implement such a procedure, bearing in mind that a major objective 
should be to identify the goals properly sought to be achieved by foreign 
travel on the part of System personnel. 
The following staff members entered at this point: 
Mr. Partee, iAdviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Other appropriate staff members also attended portions 
of the remainder of the meeting. 

605 
3/11/71 
-16-
Valley Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum dated December 28, 
1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial 
of the application of Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, 
to acquire shares of Farmers and Merchants Bank, Weyauwega, Wisconsin. 
Subsequently, the report of the Department of Justice on the competitive 
effects was received, the applicant filed a reply to the Department's 
adverse conclusion, and in a memorandum dated February 23, 1971, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation reiterated its recommendation 
of denial. The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago also recommended denial, 
while the Banking Markets Section favored approval. The application had 
received preliminary consideration on December 31, 1970, and March 2, 
1971, but in each instance action was deferred pending the availability 
of additional members of the Board. 
After review of the pertinent documentation, Chairman Burns and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill indicated that they would approve 
the application while Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer favored 
denial. The majority concluded that consummation of the proposal would 
not have a seriously anticompetitive effect and that resulting economies 
of scale would result in expanded and improved services in the community. 
The minority concluded that consummation of the proposal would have an 
adverse competitive effect which would not be outweighed by convenience 
and needs factors. 

606 
3/11/71 
-16-
The application was then approved, Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
and Brimmer dissenting, with the understanding that an order and state-
ment would be drafted for the Board's consideration, along with a 
dissenting statement. 
Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation. A memorandum from 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated February 22, 1971, and 
other pertinent papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed 
in connection with an application of Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corpo-
ration, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of State Bank of Mayville, 
Mayville, Wisconsin. The recommendations were favorable. The applica-
tion was originally scheduled for consideration on March 4, 1971, but 
was removed from the consent calendar for that day at the request of 
Governor Brimmer, who asked the staff to develop additional information 
with respect to possible alternatives. 
Subsequently, in a memorandum 
dated March 10, 1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation dis-
cussed five alternatives that had been mentioned by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago and reiterated its favorable recommendation with respect 
to the present application. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
Coordinating Committee. 
In a memorandum dated February 23, 
1971, Governor Mitchell made the following recommendations with respect 

607 
3/11/71 
-16-
to certain matters that had been the subject of discussion at meetings 
of the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation: 
(1) Designate John T. McClintock, Assistant Director, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation, as the staff member 
authorized to furnish the appropriate staff member of the 
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation with information 
relating to State member banks from which the Corporation 
was considering purchasing mortgages. 
(2) Reaffirm the Board's decision of last year not 
to modify the published interpretation that messenger 
service does not involve establishment and operation of 
a branch. 
(3) Continue to consider, on a case-by-case basis, 
whether investments by State member banks in community 
development corporations are permissible in order to 
determine whether the investment might properly be regarded 
as a de minimis violation of the stock purchase prohibition 
contained in section 5136 of the Revised Statutes. 
r, 
(4) Adopt the position that undivided profits and 
subordinated notes should be included as capital stock 
and surplus for purposes of the base used in limiting 
certain bank activities. 
f y iT 
, 
, 
.„ 
, 
t j 
In an attached memorandum to Governor Mitchell dated February 22, 
1971, Mr. Sanders summarized the background discussions against which 
some of these recommendations had evolved and outlined supportive legal 
rationale. 
Other distributed memoranda dealing with the subjects at issue 
included: 
Memorandum from Governor Mitchell dated December 16, 1970, 
recommending certain actions with respect to bank subordi-
nated notes. 
Memoranda from Governor Robertson dated January 8 and 
January 12, 1971, setting forth his views regarding the 
proposals relating to subordinated notes, and to messen-
ger service and loan production offices, respectively. 

608 
3/11/71 
-16-
Memoranda from Mr. Leavitt dated February 26 and March 10, 
1971, commenting on loan production office activities. 
(Copies of these papers have been placed in the Board's files.) 
The recommendation to designate Mr. McClintock as a point of 
contact with the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation for the purpose 
indicated in the February 23 memorandum was approved unanimously. 
Discussion then turned to the Board's 1964 interpretation that 
a State member bank could establish and operate a messenger service without 
regard to the Federal law imposing geographical restrictions on the opera-
tion of a branch by such bank. In a 1969 decision (First National Bank 
j^L Plant City v. Dickinson) the Supreme Court held, with respect to a 
national bank in a State the law of which prevents State banks from 
operating armored car services, that such a service involved the receipt 
deposits and constituted the operation of a branch within the meaning 
°f section 5155 of the Revised Statutes. The question then raised was 
whether the Board should modify its interpretation in light of that 
decision, and in 1970 the Board decided in the negative. The issue now 
before the Board was whether the action taken in 1970 should be reaffirmed. 
In explaining his rationale in support of adhering to the 1964 
interpretation, Mr. Sanders expressed the opinion that an underlying 
PUnci pie of the Supreme Court's decision was to avoid creating a com-
petitive inequality between classes of banks. Reversal of the Board's 

609 
3/11/71 
-16-
1964 interpretation would contribute to competitive inequality between 
State member banks and other banks. 
Governor Robertson took the position that the principle of the 
Supreme Court decision was that a bank may not avoid restrictions on its 
branching activities by means of subterfuge. 
In view of the Court's 
ruling,,,.he felt that the Board had no alternative but to reverse its 
interpretation. 
He expressed the view that his position was further 
strengthened by the decision in the case of Jackson v. First National 
Bank of Gainesville, in which the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth 
Circuit applied the principle of the Dickinson ruling and concluded that 
deposit-collecting cars were bank "branches" even though the armored cars 
were owned and operated by a subsidiary of the bank's holding company. 
A subsequent request for certiorari was denied by the Supreme Court on 
March 1, 1971. 
Question was raised as to the effect of the Jackson case on the 
legal rationale for not modifying the Board's 1964 interpretation, and 
Messrs. O'Connell and Sanders expressed the view that the rationale 
would still stand. The court decisions in the Dickinson and Jackson 
cases, they maintained, were based on facts peculiar to those cases 
and should be read in that context. However, Messrs. Hackley and 
Hexter were of the opinion that the Supreme Court rationale must be 
regarded as applicable not only to the specific case but to any other 
case where the facts were substantially the same, and that the Board 
should be guided accordingly. 

610 
3/11/71 
-16-
After further discussion of the legal arguments on both sides 
of the question, Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
and Sherrill indicated that, given the rationale developed by the Legal 
Division, they subscribed to the view that on policy grounds as well as 
grounds of equity the 1964 interpretation should be reaffirmed. 
Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer were of the view that the only course open to the 
Board was to reverse the interpretation. Additionally, they believed 
that the terms of the Dickinson decision required reconsideration of the 
Board's 1968 interpretation that loan production offices do not constitute 
branches for the purpose of Federal law. 
The Board's 1970 decision not to modify the published interpreta-
tion that messenger service does not involve establishment and operation 
°f a branch was then reaffirmed, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that the Board consider simply 
withdrawing the 1964 interpretation, so that the question whether the 
establishment of a branch was involved in a given situation would be 
left to the respective States. Such a move would assure competitive 
equality so far as State banks within a given State were concerned. 
In discussion of that proposal, Governor Maisel suggested that 
if such a possibility were to be explored, the Legal Division should 
inform the Board of all other outstanding interpretations involving 
the definition of a branch, particularly where any conflict with State 
laws was involved, in order that the Board could consider the whole 

611 
3/11/71 
-16-
range of issues at the same time, including whether to rescind outstanding 
1 
interpretations. 
Mr. Sanders observed that consideration of the pending proposal 
of a Connecticut bank to operate lock boxes in New York would again raise 
the question of what constitutes a branch and could provide a basis for 
reexamining existing interpretations of the Board. 
Following further discussion it was understood that the staff 
would consider the matter further in light of the suggestions made by 
Governors Robertson and Maisel. 
I 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point to keep 
S 
an out-of-town appointment and Mr. Layton, Director of Equal Employment 
sii 
Opportunity, entered. 
Discussion then turned to Governor Mitchell's recommendation to 
Proceed on a case-by-case basis regarding investments by State member 
banks in community development corporations. The majority position 
taken by the Board at its January 28, 1971, meeting, it was noted, would 
regard an investment not exceeding 2 per cent of a bank's capital stock 
and surplus as a de minimis violation of the stock purchase prohibition 
in section 5136 of the Revised Statutes. The general question of invest-
ments in such corporations had been the subject of discussion by the 
Interagency Coordinating Committee, and the Comptroller of the Currency 
had now indicated a willingness to modify his charitable contribution 
concept. However, he would raise the permissible amount of investment 
from 2 to 5 per cent. 

612 
3/11/71 
-16-
Goverrior Robertson expressed the view that the proper approach 
to the problem would be through the legislative route, and he recalled 
that in 1969 he had drafted a proposed bill for that purpose. 
During discussion the desirability of a uniform regulatory 
approach was stressed, and question was raised whether the legislative 
route would be supported by the other bank supervisory agencies. 
However, 
the prevailing sentiment favored the approach suggested by Governor 
Robertson. Accordingly, it was understood that the matter would be con-
sidered further in terms of a possible legislative proposal. 
Discussion then turned to Governor Mitchell's recommendation that 
the Board adopt the position that undivided profits should be included 
within the definition of capital stock and surplus for purposes of various 
provisions of the Federal Reserve Act. Such action would revise a Board 
interpretation published in 1964 and would bring the Board's position 
into line with that of the Comptroller of the Currency and, more recently, 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Divergent staff views were expressed in this regard. Mr. Sanders 
was of the opinion that the recommended change in the Board's position 
Would be in the public interest and could be supported legally. Messrs. 
Hackley and Hexter, while conceding that uniformity among the agencies 
was desirable, felt that from the legal standpoint there was no alterna-
tive under existing statutes to the position taken in 1964. 
Mr. Hackley also recalled that in 1969 a System Task Force to 
Study Problems of Regulatory and Supervisory Relations with Member Banks 

3/11/71 
-12-
had recommended that Congressional action be sought to permit State 
member banks to include capital notes and debentures and undivided 
profits as part of capital and surplus for purposes of various restric-
tions of the Federal Reserve Act. The Conference of Presidents had 
concurred in the Task Force report and in a letter to the Reserve Bank 
Presidents dated October 21, 1969, the Board had indicated that further 
consideration would be given to the Task Force proposal. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the question of including undi-
vided profits as part of capital and surplus was essentially a legal one, 
but that legal views differed. He pointed out that the ruling of the 
Comptroller of the Currency had been in effect for some years with no 
apparent adverse consequences. 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
had now indicated a willingness to accept the Comptroller's position, and 
in the circumstances he questioned whether any useful purpose would be 
served through perpetuation of differing interpretations. 
Governor 
Robertson, however, was of the opinion that the recommended position 
would clearly be contrary to existing statutes, and Governor Brimmer 
also found the arguments of Messrs. Hackley and Hexter persuasive. 
There was some discussion of the possibility of seeking clarifying 
legislative action, but the majority of the Board expressed themselves 
as being in accord with Governor Mitchell's recommendation. 
Governor Mitchell's recommendation was then approved, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the interpretation subse-
quently published is attached as Item No. 3. 

614 
3/11/71 
-16-
With respect to the proposal to include subordinated notes in 
capital stock and surplus, Governor Robertson again expressed the view 
that the only principled way to accomplish the desired purpose would be 
to recommend appropriate legislation. At a minimum he felt that restric-
tions should be included in any delegation to the Reserve Banks of author-
ity to approve the issuance of subordinated notes not subject to reserve 
requirements and interest rate controls. If approvals were not condi-
tioned upon the notes being rolled over or replaced by equity capital 
at maturity, he believed that the potential existed for real difficulties 
to develop in terms of maintaining capital adequacy. He noted that in 
the case of nonmember banks, subordinated capital notes could not be retired 
except with FDIG approval. Chairman Burns suggested that control might 
also be effected through the requirement of a sinking fund. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the problems foreseen by 
Governor Robertson should be dealt with through the bank supervisory 
Process rather than by regulation, while Governor Sherrill indicated 
that his preference would be to allow the issuance of subordinated notes 
subject to the condition that approval would be required for their subse-
quent retirement. 
Certain further reservations were expressed with respect to the 
granting of any blanket endorsement for the issuance of capital notes, 
and Mr. Solomon summarized some of the problems that he foresaw from the 
bank supervisory standpoint. 

615 
3/11/71 
-16-
The Chairman then noted that Governor Robertson had made a 
suggestion, which appeared to be substantially the same as the sugges-
tion made by Governor Sherrill, and he asked Governor Robertson for a 
specific recommendation. Governor Robertson stated that he would impose 
a condition, in connection with the approval of applications for permis-
sion to issue capital notes, that the notes could not be retired without 
Federal Reserve approval, with the understanding that approval for such 
retirement would be given if the bank had made provision for a sinking 
fund or if the notes were convertible into equity capital at maturity. 
Governor Mitchell said that before he could support that proposal 
he would want to have more facts at hand, since he was not presently 
familiar with the types of instruments that had been issued. 
Accordingly, it was agreed that action would be deferred pending 
accumulation of the information desired by Governor Mitchell. 
In this 
connection, Governor Maisel stated that at such time as the matter was 
considered further he would like to have available to the Board for con-
sideration a counterproposal under which the issuance of capital notes 
would be handled essentially as a normal bank supervisory function, 
leaving it up to the supervisors to make sure that there were sufficient 
funds available to pay off the notes. If handled in this manner, he 
doubted that other regulatory requirements would be necessary. 
It was understood that the staff would work with members of the 
Board on ways of moving forward on the matter in the light of the suggestions 

616 
3/11/71 
-16-
and comments that had been made, all with a view to preparing the Board 
for further consideration of the question. 
Civil rights. In a memorandum of March 9, 1971, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation commented on a request from the U.S. 
Commission on Civil Rights for information with regard to efforts made 
by the Federal Reserve System to enforce compliance by banks under its 
supervision with the provisions of Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act 
of 1968. Similar requests had been received by the other agencies 
participating in the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation and a 
proposed reply submitted with the memorandum reflected in general an 
approach agreed upon by the staffs of the respective agencies. 
Among other things the Commission had asked for a memorandum 
of law concerning whether there were legal impediments to the adoption 
of procedures that would require banks to impose nondiscrimination 
requirements on builders and developers with whom they have financial 
dealings. Such a memorandum was being prepared by the Board's Legal 
Division, with the understanding that it would be transmitted as soon 
as it could be completed. 
It had been requested that the reply to the inquiry from the 
Civil Rights Commission be transmitted to the Commission through the 
White House. 
The proposed reply was reviewed and some language changes were 
agreed upon. However, the discussion related principally to the question 

617 
3/11/71 
-16-
of the actual effectiveness of bank supervisory procedures, including 
examinations, in ascertaining compliance with the applicable provisions 
of the Civil Rights Act of 1968. As a result of this discussion, Governors 
Brimmer and Sherrill were asked by the Chairman to explore the matter 
further with appropriate members of the staff, including Messrs. Leavitt 
and Plotkin, and report back to the Board. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a reply to the U.S. Commission 
on Civil Rights in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Subordinated note. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
Chemical Bank, New York, New York, approving the issuance of a subordinated 
capital note. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
n 
The meeting then adjourned. 
!'..•• 
W 
£ 
• 
, ;, J .. 
. 
i :• 
) 
. c 
Secretary 

.•vofco;-.. 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2055J 
bast 
Item No. 1 
3/11/71 
A D D D E B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 22, 1971 
Mr. William F. Treiber 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
°ear Bill: 
In reply to your letter of February 4, 1971, the Board 
°f Governors will not object to your Bank's proceeding in accord-
ance with the foreign travel program for 1971 as approved by the 
directors of the Bank on February 4 and as described in detail in 
your memorandum of the same date. 
It should be noted, however, that, the Board did have 
some questions about the program, particularly from the stand-
Point of the amount of time that ranking officers will be away 
from the Bank. The Board assumes that the directors of the Bank, 
before approving the program, gave appropriate consideration to 
this aspect of the matter and that they will continue to do so 
in the future. 
The Board also noted that under the current procedure the 
Proposed travel program for a particular calendar year is not sub-
m-Ltted to the Board until a month or more of the year has elapsed. 
In addition, it has not been the practice to submit: with the 
Proposed travel program any estimate of the expenditures that are 
c°ntemplated or any accounting of comparable expenses for the 
Preceding year. These circumstances make it difficult for the 
^°ard to accomplish a meaningful review of the travel program. 
In an effort to approach the problem of System foreign 
travel, including its coordination, more systematically in the 
future, the Board has asked its Committee on Travel (composed of 
Governor Daane, as Chairman, Governor Brimmer, and Governor Sherrill) 
to develop a procedure whereby each Federal Reserve Bank will be 
Requested to present a foreign travel forecast for discussion with 
Committee in the fall of each year at the time when discussions 

Mr. William F. Treiber 
- 2 -
are held with the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans regarding officer salaries and related matters. 
The Committee on Travel will be communicating with the Reserve 
Banks in this regard in the near future. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 

620 
Item No. 2 
3/11/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION, 
1 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of State Bank of Mayville, 
Wisconsin. 
I 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock 
CorPoration, Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
h°lding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
o f 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of State Bank of 
^Wille, Mayville, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Vrltten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 

621 
-2-
Banking of the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Coir.missioner offered no objection to approval 
the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on January 5, 1971 (36 Federal Register 129), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of 
the application was forwarded to the United States Department of 
Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired and all those received have been considered by 
^ e Board. 
The Board has considered the application In the light 
o f the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including 
the effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
the communities to be served. Upon such consideration, the 
Board finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest registered bank holding 
c°ropany and banking organization in Wisconsin, controls twelve 
batiks with aggregate deposits of $558 million, representing 
Per cent of the State's total deposits. (All banking data 
a t e as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect bank holding company 

formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) Upon 
acquisition of Bank ($14 million in deposits), Applicant would 
increase its share of State-wide deposits to 6.6 per cent. 
Bank has its principal office in Mayville and one branch 
in Knowles, a few miles north of Mayville. It is the only bank 
in Mayville and serves an area of approximately 215 square miles 
in northeast Dodge County. The closest banking office of any 
subsidiary of Applicant to Bank is a branch office of Ripon State 
Bank in Brandon, approximately 25 miles northwest of Mayville 
in Fond du Lac County. Under Wisconsin law, no present subsidiary 
Applicant may establish a branch in Bank's service area. There 
appears to be no significant competition between Bank and Ripon 
State Bank or any other subsidiary of Applicant. 
Bank is the largest of five banks competing in its service 
a t e a, holding 43.5 per cent of area deposits. The second and third 
*argest banks in such area hold 20 per cent and 17.4 per cent of 
area deposits, respectively. All of the banks in Bank's service area 
Primarily serve the towns in which they are located, and Bank is not 
regarded as dominating 9uch area. 
Based upon the record before it, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would not have significant 
Averse effects on competition in any relevant area. Considerations 
t e lating to the financial and managerial resources and future pros-
Pect3, as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are 

623 
i 
-4-
i 
• ^ 
regarded as consistent with approval of the application. Bank's 
affiliation with Applicant appears to Offer the prospect that 
expanded dr improved baiiking device** will be provided by, or made 
available through, Bank to the communities in Bank's service area--
notably, with respect to loan, trust, and computer services—and 
fchat Bank's operations will be strengthened through special services 
Provided by Applicant, Considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the communities in Bank's service area lend some support 
for approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that 
c°nsurr,mation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
aPproved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
° r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 11, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

bast 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 3 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/11/71 
SUBCHAPTER A-BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 250—-MISCELLANEOUS INTERPRETATIONS 
Undivided Profits 
•V.Ci 
! CU 
Effective immediately, section 250.162 is revised to read 
as follows: 
5 250.162 
profits as "nplml stock and surplus,',,'.. 
(a) The Board of Governors has reexamined the question 
whether a member bank's undivided profits may be considered as part 
of its "capital, stock and surplus", as that or a similar term is used 
'in provisions of the Federal Reserve Act that limit member banks with 
respect to the following: loans to affiliates (12 U.S.C. 371c), 
purchases of investment securities (12 U.S.C. 335), loans on stock 
or bond collateral (12 U.S.C. 248(B)), deposits with nonmcmber banks 
(12 U.S.C. 463), bank acceptances (12 U.S.C. 372, 373), investments 
in and by Edge and Agreement corporations (12 U.S.C. 601, 615, 610), 
and the amount of paper of one borrower that may be discounted or 
accepted as collateral for an advance by a Federal Reserve Bank 
(12 U.S.C. 330, 345, 347). 
(b) Upon such reexamination the Board concludes that its 
negative view expressed in 1964 is unnecessarily restrictive in the 
light of the Congressional purpose in establishing limitations on bank 
activities in terms of a bank's capital structure. Accordingly, the 
Board has decided that, for the purposes of the limitations set 
forth above, undivided profits may be included as part of "capital 
stock and surplus". 

- 2 -
"i ...••* 
v'" I" ; *' f" 
; 
V 
' ' 
•': "'if! ; 
(c) As used herein, the term "undivided profits" includes 
p'aid-in or earned profits (unearned income must be deducted); reserves 
for loan looses or bad debts, less the amount of tax which would be-
come payable with respect to the tax-free portion of the reserve if 
such portion were transferred from the reserve; valuation reserves 
for,, securities; and reserves for contingencies. It does not include 
"'./, I:;;;/,: 
> „ - ..•.'••"' 
reserves for dividends declared or reserves for taxes, interest and 
expenses. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 24, 84, 248(m), 330, 335, 
345, 347., 371p;, 372, 373, 463, 601, 615 and «61C.) 
• 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 11, 1971, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

B D A R D n r 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
b a s t 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
3/11/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F - I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 12, 1971 
The Honorable Theodore M„ Hesburgh, Chairman 
United States Commission on Civil Rights 
Washington, D. C. 20425 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This acknowledges your letter of February 17, 1971, 
wherein you asked to be provided with updated information on 
the relevant actions taken by the Federal Reserve System with 
respect to its efforts in civil rights enforcement so that 
your Commission would be in a position to assess the progress 
made by the System. 
To aid in your evaluation, you request the 
Board's response to several questions set forth as an attachment 
to your letter. 
The Board's response, set forth hereafter, 
reflects both the Board's concurrence in the underlying purposes 
of Title VIII of 1968 Civil Rights Act, and the Board's desire 
to aid enforcement of the provisions of Title VIII to the extent 
of its statutory authority. As you will note, the Board has 
repeated certain of its views expressed in its letter of June 20, 
1969, to Mr. Howard A. Glickstein, Acting Staff Director, United 
States Commission on Civil Rights. 
For several months the Federal Reserve has cooperated 
with the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which is 
charged with the responsibility of administering Title VIII, in 
the preparation of a questionnaire to be distributed to mortgage 
lenders covered under the 1968 Civil Rights Act. 
The Board 
believes that much information can be gained from this questionnaire, 
and the results may suggest guidelines as to the role the Federal 
Reserve System may take in this area. Consequently, we are 
awaiting the dissemination of the questionnaire and the responses 
thereto. 

-2-
The following answers, preceded in each instance for 
convenient reference by the relevant question, have been prepared 
only in relation to State member banks over which the Board has 
primary Federal supervisory responsibility. As of December 31, 
1970, there were 1,147 State member banks, representing 8.2 per 
cent of the 14,000 insured commercial banks in the nation. 
1. "How many complaints of discrimination in mortgage 
lending by member institutions has your agency received since 
April 1968, when Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 was 
enacted?" 
A survey of each of the 12 Reserve Banks indicates 
we have received none. 
2. "In how many cases was the complaint of discrimination 
sustained?" 
Not applicable. 
3. "In how many cases did the complainant receive 
adequate relief? Please specify, in each case, the nature of 
the complaint and the relief granted." 
Not applicable. While the Reserve System has received 
no such complaints, it has assisted the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development in planning and developing a constructive 
training program for its employees who handle complaints under 
Title VIII. On December 5, 1969, former Chairman Martin 
designated a senior bank examiner to work with HUD on this 
project. 
Hie examiner attended several meetings and was con-
sulted on occasion by HUD employees. 
4. "To what extent does your agency believe that com-
plaints accurately reflect the nature and scope of the problem of 
discrimination in mortgage lending?" 
The Board does not know of any specific cases of 
discrimination, nor does it know of any specific institution 
whose practices indicate discriminatary loan policies. Such 
practices, if followed at all, are probably more subtle than 
the overt discriminatory acts of past,years, hence much more 
difficult to identify. 
The System has been obliged, therefore, 
to rely in large measure on complaints brought to its attention 

m& 
-3-
by bank customers and, as previously mentioned, no such 
complaints have been received. The System does plan to 
review the results of the HUD questionnaire (see the 
response to question 5 below) which may give a better 
indication of the nature and scope of discrimination in 
mortgage lending by State member banks. 
5o 
"It is our understanding that your agency, together 
with the three other Federal financial regulatory agencies, has 
agreed to send out a questionnaire to member lending institutions 
for the purpose of determining their current policy in making 
loans available to minorities and gauge whether discrimination is 
a serious problem. Has the questionnaire been sent out as yet? 
If so, please provide an evaluation of the results. 
If not, please 
explain the reasons for the delay and estimate when the questionnaire 
will be sent out." 
The questionnaire was developed by the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development with the cooperation of the 
Federal Reserve, the three other Federal financial regulatory 
agencies as well as other U. S. Government organizations 
including the United States Commission on Civil Rights. The 
- Department of Housing and Urban Development, in a letter dated 
December 14, 1970, requested that the Federal Reserve distribute 
the questionnaire to and collect it from the State member banks 
under its supervision. In a letter dated January 8, 1971, 
Mr. Brenton C. Leavitt, Deputy Director of the Board's Division 
of Supervision and Regulation, agreed to accommodate the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development in this manner. 
It is the Board's understanding that HUD is in the process 
of converting the questionnaire to a form compatible with 
computer processing. 
6. "The Department of Housing and Urban Development 
recommended in June 1969 that the Federal financial regulatory 
agencies, pursuant to their responsibility under Section 808(d) 
of the Civil Rights Act of 1968--to administer their programs and 
activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner 
affirmatively to further the purpose of Title VIII—adopt a number 
of policies and practices, including the following: 

"a. Require member institutions to keep on file all 
loan applications, indicating the race or color of applicant, 
together with other relevant information, such as the character 
and location of the neighborhood in which the property involved 
is located and if the application is disapproved, the reasons 
why." 
No such requirement has been made. The Board does 
not believe that keeping of records of this nature by 
banks will accomplish the objective of revealing either 
accurate patterns of discrimination or evidence of specific 
violations. For example, a file of rejected applications 
would contain only those cases which reached the application 
stage, and would not include those turned down after the 
briefest sort of interview—and it is in these later cases 
that such racial discrimination as may exist would be more 
likely to take place. Further, the Board cannot envision 
any kind of bank recordkeeping that would produce reliable 
or useful data in this area. 
"b. Require member lending institutions to post a 
notice in their lobby stating that the institution does not 
discriminate in mortgage lending and informing the public that 
such discrimination is in violation of Section 805 of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1968." 
There would be some efficacy to such a notice. 
Some 
banks, however, do not make mortgage loans, especially 
residential loans, and many more make them only in excep-
tional cases where customer relations considerations are 
involved, thus some exceptions would be in order. 
The proposed questionnaire prepared by HUD asks 
"Since enactment of the Federal Fair Housing Law in April 
1968, what actions have been taken by your institution to 
advise potential customers and the general public that 
loan applications will be considered solely on the basis 
of debt capacity of the borrowers without regard to race, 
color, religion or national origin?" The answers obtained 
on this question may well reveal that many banks have already 
taken affirmative action beyond the-mere posting of a notice. 

Conversely, the answers could reveal a definite need to 
inform the public. The Board prefers to await analysis 
of the results of the questionnaire before developing 
a poster or other type notice for possible use by State 
member banks. 
"c. Develop a special form for use by examiners in 
checking on discriminatory lending practices covered by Title VIII.' 
The Board believes that there is some merit to this pro-
posal and would favor the use of such a document as soon as 
it can be satisfactorily developed. The HUD questionnaire 
could well provide a starting point. Analysis of the results 
of the questionnaire should provide considerable assistance 
for the development of a relevant document for examiner use„ 
"d. Develop a data collection system designed to reveal 
patterns or practices of discrimination in home mortgage lending 
operations covered by Title VIII." 
The Board is not convinced that it is possible to 
produce meaningful or useful nationwide statistics (other 
than those produced by use of the questionnaire) at a cost 
"commensurate with the benefits. However, the Board would 
be willing to discuss with HUD the possibility of developing 
a collection system for selected areas. 
• j 
• 
. . . 
. 
7. "It is our understanding that examiners have been 
instructed to adopt procedures for detecting discrimination in 
mortgage lending. What procedures have been adopted for this 
purpose?" 
On April 25, 1969, former Chairman Martin addressed 
a letter to the president of each State member bank directing 
attention to the Civil Rights Act of 1968 and to its pro-
visions applicable to State member banks that are in the 
business of making mortgage loans. A copy of the letter 
was distributed to the System's examiners who are required 
to include in their reports information about any apparent 
violation of the Act disclosed during the course of any 
regular or special examination. 

The mortgage loan practices of State member banks 
are reviewed at each examination to determine conformity 
with the provisions of applicable Federal and State 
statutes and individual loans analyzed as to credit quality. 
In any instance where an examiner for the System encounters 
evidence of racial discrimination in mortgage lending such 
fact would, if substantiated, be made the subject of appro-
priate supervisory action,, 
' 
8. "In June 1968, this Commission forwarded a memorandum 
from its General Counsel recommending that your agency adopt pro-
cedures to require member institutions to impose nondiscrimination 
requirements on builders and developers with whom they have financial 
dealings,, It is our understanding that such procedures have not 
been adopted. If our understanding is correct, please explain the 
reasons why. To the extent you believe there are legal impediments 
to adopting such procedures, please provide us with a memorandum 
of law on this point." 
The Board does not favor a proposal whereby State member 
banks would be compelled to impose nondiscrimination require-
ments on builders and developers who are financed by such 
banks for the reason that, in the Board's opinion, a sub-
*" stantial question exists as to whether the Board has legal 
authority to prescribe such a requirement, as to State member 
banks. Moreover, the Board believes that the provisions of 
the Act relating to the administration, enforcement, and 
investigation authority of the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development, together with the civil enforcement provisions 
of the Act, constitute effective remedial and enforcement 
avenues with respect to the Act's nondiscrimination pro-
visions. 'Tliere will follow in a few days a copy of a memo-
randum pertaining to this matter prepared by the Board's 
Legal Division. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 

B O A R D O F 
G n V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
63° 
Item No. 5 
3/11/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 11, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Chemical Bank 
New York, New York 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217d (f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204d (f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of a $50,000,000 
subordinated note by Chemical Bank, New York, New York, as pro-
posed- in the attachment to your Counsel's letter dated March 1, 
1971, to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth Ac Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
