FR 609 
(
R e
v . 3/70) 
Minutes for 
September 16, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
<;. 
' • • • v» . 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
u
? 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes except editorial changes 
suggested by Chairman Burns in the first full paragraph 
on page 8. 

S 5 6 0 6 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, September 16, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 11:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherri11 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Swiss subsidiary of United California Bank. 
The Division of 
Supervision and Regulation, in a memorandum dated September 15, 1970, 

2607 
9/16/70 
-2-
discussed a request made by United California Bank, Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, through its counsel in Washington, D. C., in connection with 
its efforts to conduct an orderly liquidation of its Swiss subsidiary, 
United California Bank in Basel, as a result of an estimated $30 million 
loss in that subsidiary arising from speculation in commodities. 
It was 
hoped to accomplish the liquidation without having to go through the 
complex legal processes prescribed for a statutory bankruptcy. 
The 
parent bank asked that the Board provide a letter that could be shown 
to the Swiss Banking Commission indicating that the Board perceived no 
legal or regulatory obstacles to the plan proposed by the bank to protect 
the depositors and other creditors of the Swiss subsidiary from loss. 
In essence, United California Bank proposed to assume the liabil-
ities to depositors and other creditors of the Swiss subsidiary, consist-
ing principally of time deposits of other banks, U.S. and foreign, to 
the extent they could not be met from the assets of the subsidiary. 
To 
secure its obligation, United California Bank would issue an irrevocable 
standby letter of credit, which would be lodged in a Swiss bank, on 
which the depositors and creditors might draw in the event United Cali-
fornia Bank did not directly pay under its agreement. 
The parent bank expected the estimated $30 million loss to be 
reduced by tax and insurance offsets, under the most favorable assump-
tions perhaps to as little as $8-9 million (the Division regarded this 

US08 
9/16/70 
-3-
assumption as optimistic). 
The bank's long-standing capital problem 
would be worsened by whatever loss was sustained, but the Division did 
not believe the deterioration would be severe enough to put the bank 
in jeopardy. 
The bank had been urged for a number of years to improve 
its capital position in line with its growth, and it was understood 
that its parent holding company, Western Bancorporation, expected to 
provide an additional $60 million of capital as soon as market condi-
tions permitted. 
The Division found no basis on legal, regulatory, or policy 
grounds for objecting to the providing of a letter along the lines 
requested. 
However, the draft furnished by United California Bank 
seemed to suggest Board approval of the bank's management decisions; 
a substitute draft was therefore attached. 
The Legal Division and the 
Division of International Finance concurred in the position taken in 
the memorandum. 
Further letters had now been received from Washington counsel 
for United California Bank indicating, among other things, that uncer-
tainties arising from continuing audits led to the possibility that the 
Swiss Banking Commission might now require an agreement and letter of 
credit obligating United California Bank to compensate the depositors 
and creditors of the Swiss subsidiary up to a maximum of $40 million, 
and that it was also possible that the Swiss court having jurisdiction 

9/16/70 
- 4-
over the matter might choose to supervise the liquidation of the subsid-
iary in a quasi-judicial manner falling short of the full bankruptcy 
procedure that would otherwise be required by Swiss law. 
Mr. F. Solomon expressed the view that, while United California 
Bank still expected the loss to run from $28 to $32 million, $40 million 
might be a more realistic figure. 
This revised figure did not alter the 
staff recommendation, but it did raise a legal question that had not been 
present before. 
In response to a question, he indicated that it could 
not be expected that tax and insurance offsets would be available for a 
$40 million loss in the same proportion as United California Bank hoped 
they would be for a $30 million loss. 
Asked whether a $40 million loss 
1 <; ' , j • 
' 
1 j 
' 
• 
• 
would result in a weak bank, Mr. Solomon responded that in his opinion 
the bank's situation would not be unduly weakened. 
Mr. O'Connell observed that the most recent letter from counsel 
had contained the first reference to the possibility of supervision of 
the liquidation by the Swiss court, which would in effect provide protec-
tion 
in that it assured that information to which the Board could not 
have access would be reviewed by a court. 
Mr. O'Connell stated also that another consideration was the 
requirement of the Board's Regulation M (Foreign Activities of National 
Banks) that aggregate direct and indirect foreign investments by a 

2810 
9/16/70 
-5-
national bank, other than through an Edge or Agreement corporation 
subsidiary, not exceed 25 per cent of the bank's capital and surplus. 
The question arose in the present situation whether the amount paid 
to meet the obligations of the foreign subsidiary should be deemed to 
be an investment. 
It was his view and that of his associates that the 
money so used would not constitute an investment. 
There ensued a discussion of the capital position of United 
California Bank, the probable effect upon it of the expected loss, 
plans to provide additional capital,and the possibility of stockholder 
suits. 
Chairman Burns suggested that if the Board approved the sending 
of the proposed letter regarding the bank's plan to assume its subsid-
iary's liabilities, a separate letter should be sent stating the Board's 
expectation that the bank's capital would be augmented. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would not approve the paragraph 
of the draft letter reading as follows: 
Based upon the facts and circumstances reflected 
in the information that you have submitted, and taking 
into account the present financial position and pros-
pects of United and its parent, Western Bancorporation, 
the Board of Governors has concluded that the program 
you have described, including the execution of the pro-
posed agreement between United and Basel and the issuance 
of the proposed standby letter of credit as security 
therefor, does not conflict with any Federal statute or 
regulation administered by the Board, and that the Board 
would not interpose any objection to the proposed arrange-
ments you have described. 

9/16/70 
- 6-
In his view, the letter should not go any farther than was needed 
for the purpose the bank sought. 
Therefore, he advocated ending the 
paragraph with "does not conflict with any Federal statute or regula-
tion." 
(In later discussion he acceded to the addition of the words 
"administered by the Board.") 
If the Board did not object to assump-
tion of a loss of $40 million, it would hardly be in a position to 
object to assumption of a larger loss, should it develop. 
Governor Sherrill indicated that the paramount consideration 
to him was whether or not the loss would result in risk to the soundness 
of the parent bank, and the staff had expressed the view that it would 
not. 
. 
t • i\.t • 
\ 
i 
Governor Robertson nevertheless believed that the Board should 
be cautious, because it appeared that the bank would be paying out funds 
as a moral rather than a legal obligation. 
It seemed to him that the 
bank was seeking protection from claims by its shareholders as much as 
to give assurance to the Swiss Government. 
Moreover, approval of this 
Proposal might preclude the Board from taking a different position later 
in this or other cases. 
Further discussion brought out that the Swiss Banking Commission 
bad requested assurance "that the Board will not interpose any objection 
to the consummation of the proposed arrangements." 
It was suggested alsc 
that, quite aside from specific conflict with law or regulation, the 

9 / 1 6 / 1 0 
- 7 -
Board could object to any situation that endangered the soundness of 
a member bank. 
It was agreed, however, that the language used should 
not speak to the future but only to the present. 
Mr. Holland said he had just received the text of a cable sent 
to the Secretary of State from the American Embassy in Berne, and he 
called the Board's attention to the following passage from the cable: 
Federal Assembly will take up amendment of bank law 
to strengthen controls over foreign banks in fall legis-
lative session, beginning September 21. This case, which 
is called largest loss in Swiss banking history, will 
undoubtedly insure passage of strengthened law. To in-
quirers who have pressed us regarding effect on U.S. 
banks in Switzerland, we have noted that these banks, by 
and large, are branches of some of our most important 
and respected financial institutions and that Swiss can 
i • i . . 
appreciate that difficulties in one bank are not indica-
tive of practices of others. As practical matter, however, 
we fear that all foreign banks, including U.S., will find 
their activities more carefully scrutinized in future and 
new branches will be approved only after most searching 
and time-consuming review of applications for establishment. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the letter to United Cali-
1 h. 
% t 
. 
r 
> 
c s. 
:i • 
' 
fornia Bank was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting, in the form 
attached as Item No. 1. The staff was requested to prepare another 
le tter to the bank calling attention to the need for additional capital, 
particularly in view of the losses expected to be sustained. 
Budget exemption for Export-Import Bank. 
A draft letter to 
Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency and 

2813 
9/16/70 
-8-
draft testimony had been prepared recommending against enactment of 
S. 4268, a bill that would exclude the receipts and disbursements of 
the Export-Import Bank from the totals of the budget of the United 
States Government and exempt them from any annual expenditure and net 
lending limitations imposed on the budget. 
Governor Brimmer prefaced today's discussion by expressing his 
preference for sending a letter and avoiding the presentation of testi-
mony if possible. 
There was general agreement on this point, and also 
that testimony, if required, should follow the lines of whatever letter 
was sent. 
Questions were raised as to whether some of the comments in 
the draft letter, relating particularly to the scope and effect of 
Export-Import Bank operations, were germane to consideration of the 
proposed legislation. 
Chairman Burns argued that the letter be mainly 
confined to the fiscal implications, both direct and indirect, of 
handling the Export-Import Bank operations outside the budget. 
It was 
agreed that the letter should emphasize mainly the desirability of 
maintaining fiscal discipline through the mechanism of the Federal 
budget. 
Consideration was given also to the possibility of declining 
to offer substantive comments, but it was agreed that a letter should 
be sent. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board unanimously 
approved the sending of a revised letter to Chairman Sparkman, in a 
form to be worked out by Governor Brimmer and the staff to the satis-
faction of Chairman Burns. 
A copy of the letter subsequently sent is 
attached as Item No. 2. 

£614 
9/16/70 
-9-
Sub-quorum actions. 
At the meeting on September 14, 1970, 
the Board requested that the staff prepare a possible amendment to 
its Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority to permit action by less 
than a quorum of the Board in certain areas of the Board's responsi-
bilities, effective from September 17 through September 28, 1970. Such 
a draft amendment was presented by Mr. O'Connell in a memorandum dated 
September 16, along with an alternative proposal that in effect would 
continue the present practice of action by a sub-quorum membership, as 
and when appropriate, the minutes to reflect that such actions taken 
would be subsequently ratified by a quorum of the Board. 
Members of the Board indicated that they were persuaded by 
reasons cited by Mr. O'Connell in support of the alternative proposal. 
• : ' 
f ' , 
J. . ii 
' ' 
Therefore, it was agreed to follow that procedure. 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel, Mrs. Heller, Adviser, 
Legal Division, and Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
' Oa 1 
. l ; ; 
Supervision and Regulation, then entered the room, along with a number 
of other staff members of those and other divisions. 
Bank merger and holding company actions. After review of back-
ground material that had been distributed, the Board took the following 
actions: 
Approved unanimously the application of Union Trust Company 
of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, to merge Metropolitan 
National Bank of Maryland, Wheaton, Maryland, and authorized 
the issuance of an order (Item No. 3); 

9/16/70 
- 10-
Approved unanimously the application of Security Trust 
Company of Rochester, Rochester, New York, to merge The 
Cohocton State Bank, Cohocton, New York, and authorized 
the issuance of an order and statement (Item No. 4); 
Approved unanimously the application of Houston Bank & 
Trust Company, Houston, Texas, to merge Citizens Bank, 
also of Houston; 
Approved unanimously the application of First New Mexico 
Bankshare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico, at present 
a one-bank holding company, to become a registered bank 
holding company by acquiring shares of First National Bank 
of Rio Arriba, Espanola; The Merchants Bank, Gallup; First 
National Bank in Raton, Raton; and Security National Bank 
of Roswell; all in New Mexico; 
Approved unanimously the application of First Union, 
Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri, at present a one-bank 
holding company, to become a registered bank holding 
company by acquiring shares of Vandalia State Bank, 
Vandalia, Missouri, and authorized the issuance of an 
order and statement (Item No. 5), together with a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (Item No. 6); 
Approved unanimously the application of Northwest Ohio 
Bankshares, Inc., Toledo, Ohio, to become a bank holding 
company by acquiring shares of The Toledo Trust Company, 
Toledo, Ohio, and The First National Bank of Findlay, 
Findlay, Ohio; 
Authorized the issuance of an order and statement reflect-
ing approval, on August 27, 1970, of the application of 
Citizens Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Hollywood, Florida, 
to become a bank holding company by acquiring shares of 
Citizens National Bank of West Hollywood, West Hollywood; 
Citizens National Bank of Hollywood, Hollywood; Citizens 
National Bank of Miami, Dade County; and Citizens National 
Bank of Davie, Davie; all in Florida (Item No. 7). 
Merrill Bankshares. 
In a memorandum dated September 14, 1970, 
the Legal Division recommended that the Board vacate its order of 
April 27, 1970, approving the application of Merrill Bankshares Company, 

2616 
9/16/70 
-11-
Bangor, Maine, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to Federal 
Trust Company, Waterville, Maine. 
The applicant had so requested because 
litigation by a minority stockholder had resulted in a ruling by a State 
Court that the merger plan, which involved use of a phantom bank, was 
not permissible under State law. 
The holding company was expected to 
submit a revised application. 
The Board unanimously approved the applicant's request and 
authorized the issuance of an order in the form attached as Item No. 8. 
Export term loans under VFCR. 
In a memorandum dated Septem-
ber 11, 1970, Governor Brimmer referred to the definition of export 
term loans, in the current Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint guidelines, 
as loans that would have to be reported under the Treasury's interest 
i, 
equalization tax informational reporting program. 
Generally speaking, 
these were loans financing U.S. exports, having a maturity of one year 
or more, and being of a value of $250,000 or more. 
For reasons set 
forth, Governor Brimmer recommended that the $250,000 floor in the 
guideline definition be eliminated. 
Drafts of an amendment to the 
guidelines and a press release were attached. 
The amendment and press release were approved unanimously. 
Copies are attached under Item No. 9. 
Building guidelines. 
The Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
and Building Plans submitted to the Board with a memorandum dated 

2617 
9/16/70 
-12-
September 11, 1970, a draft of "Guidelines for Design and Construction 
of Federal Reserve Bank Buildings" prepared by the Board's Consulting 
Architect pursuant to agreement with the Board executed earlier this 
year. 
The Committee (with the exception of Governor Brimmer, who had 
been absent) had reviewed the draft and approved it for circulation 
to the Federal Reserve Banks for comments. 
The Board unanimously approved the sending of the draft guide-
lines to the Federal Reserve Banks for comments. 
A copy of the letter 
sent to the Banks is attached as Item No. 10. 
Delegation of authority. 
In a memorandum dated September 3, 
1970, Governor Sherrill renewed his recommendation, action on which had 
been deferred by the Board early this year because of questions then 
pending, that the Board delegate authority to a member of the Board to 
grant approval to an Edge or Agreement corporation to issue or have 
outstanding debentures, bonds, promissory notes (with a maturity of 
more than one year), and similar obligations, subject to guidelines 
that the corporation be in satisfactory condition and that the delegee 
was satisfied that the case involved no question of general policy. 
A 
draft Federal Register notice was attached. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation, and Gover-
nor Brimmer was designated by the Chairman to exercise the authority 

2618 
9/16/70 
-13-
described. A copy of the notice sent to the Federal Register is 
attached as Item No. 11. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

261<) 
B O A R D 
D F G G V E R N • R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
9/16/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 16, 1970 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California. 
90054 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has considered the information 
submitted on your behalf with respect to a proposed agreement 
between United California Bank ("United"), a member bank of the 
Federal Reserve System, and its majority-owned subsidiary, United 
California Bank in Basel A.G. ("Basel"), a Swiss banking corpora-
tion. 
The substance of the agreement in question is set forth in 
a document entitled Summary of Proposed Agreement, a copy of which 
is attached to this letter. 
You have indicated that Basel has sustained substantial 
losses and, in the absence of arrangements along the lines con-
templated by the proposed agreement, would be forced into court 
proceedings under Swiss law which would result in significant 
delays in payment and losses to its depositors and creditors, many 
of whom have regular business dealings with United and its other 
affiliates. 
The proposed agreement would include an undertaking by 
United to pay the obligations owed by Basel to its depositors and 
creditors to the extent that such obligations cannot be met by Basel 
itself. 
This undertaking would be secured by a standby irrevocable 
letter of credit issued by United in favor of the depositors and 
creditors of Basel in the amount of $40,000,000, which letter of 
credit xvould be deposited with a major bank in Switzerland. 

2620 
United California Bank 
-2-
Based upon the facts and circumstances reflected in the 
information that you have submitted, and taking into account the 
present financial position and prospects of United and its parent, 
Western Bancorporation, the Board of Governors has concluded (1) 
that the program you have described, including the execution of the 
proposed agreement between United and Basel and the issuance of the 
proposed standby letter of credit as security therefor, does not 
conflict with any Federal statute or regulation administered by the 
Board and (2) that the Board does not interpose any objection to the 
proposed arrangements you have described. 
You are authorized to communicate the contents of this 
letter to the appropriate banking authorities in Switzerland. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C . Holland, 
Secretary. 

Summary of Proposed Agreement 
The following is the substance of the proposed agreement 
between United California Bank ("United") and United California 
Bank in Basel A.G. ("Basel"). The agreement will have to be exec-
uted by the parties and approved by the Swiss Banking Commission 
on or before September 19, 1970. 
1. United will pay the obligations of Basel to its 
depositors and creditors to the extent that Basel is unable to 
do so itself, up to a maximum amount of $40,000,000 to be paid 
by United. 
2. Depositors and creditors of Basel initially will 
demand payment from Basel, and it will pay their claims to the 
extent it is able to do so. To the extent it cannot, the creditors 
and depositors of Basel will receive payment directly from United. 
3. As security for its undertaking to pay the deposi-
tors and creditors of Basel, and particularly to satisfy the 
Swiss banking authorities that there is adequate assurance of 
payment, United will issue an irrevocable standby letter of 
credit in favor of Basel's depositors and creditors in an amount 
up to a maximum of $40,000,000. 
The letter of credit will be 
deposited with a major Swiss bank or other entity as dictated 
by the Swiss authorities, and its maximum amount will be reduced 
pro rata as United makes payments directly to the Basel deposi-
tors and creditors. 
Under the circumstances, it is not contem-
plated that the letter of credit will be drawn upon; it merely 
will serve as assurance cf United's promise to pay. 
4 . 
Basel will immediately begin measures to accom-
plish an orderly liquidation. 
If the foregoing arrangements are 
executed and approved by the Swiss banking authorities and/or 
a Swiss court having jurisdiction, Basel will be permitted to 
carry out its liquidation without the necessity for an extended 
court proceeding. The depositors and creditors of Basel there-
fore will receive full and timely payment of the amounts owed 
to them, rather than being subj ected to the delays and losses 
that would result from a court proceeding. 

o r o o 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
9/16/70 
September 16, 1970 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear M r . Chairman: 
I am writing to present the views of the Board of 
Governors on S. 4268, a bill that would exclude the receipts 
and disbursements of the Export-Import Bank from the totals of 
the budget of the United States Government and exempt them from 
any annual expenditure and net lending limitations imposed on 
the budget. The Board recommends against enactment of this bill. 
Enactment of S. 4268 would constitute a breach in the 
new concept of the unified budget. The objective of revising 
the budget, as you know, was to present budget totals that would 
give an accurate and comprehensive account of the receipts and 
disbursements of the Federal Government. Whether a government 
agency borrows in the market directly or goes through the Treasury 
Department does not alter the fact that the Federal Government is 
acquiring command over the real resources represented by the 
borrowed funds. In either case, the outlays of the agency should 
be subjected to thorough scrutiny and included in the total of 
Federal disbursements. 
For the purposes of economic analysis it is important to 
know the overall economic impact of the financial operations of 
the Federal Government. When segments of the Government's fiscal 
operations are not included in the budget, the budget totals may 
mislead all but the most careful analysts. 
Budgeting is essentially a matter of ordering priorities. 
The fact that we expect repayment of Export-Import Bank loans is 
not a valid reason for exempting the net outlays from the budget 
totals. To order our priorities properly, we must determine 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
whether it is desirable to permit a net increase in government 
claims on real resources to take the form of an increase in net 
credits extended by the Export-Import Bank or a rise in the outlays 
of some other government agency. We cannot "solve" the problem of 
ordering priorities by excluding certain types of outlays from the 
budget totals. 
If we do this, we essentially treat these outlays as 
though they had priority above everything within the budget. 
The Board is fully aware of the desirability of 
expanding U. S. exports to help impr6ve our balance of pavments. 
However, not all Export-Import Bank loans result in additional 
export sales. 
This is especially true when the Bank finances 
the sale of U . S. goods for which there is little or no competition 
in world markets. 
Frequently the Bank's loans are substitutes for 
other financing in the United States or from abroad. 
Finally, to 
the extent that the Bank's credit is used to substitute for offshore 
financing of our exports, our balance of payments will suffer. 
Accordingly, the Board recommends against enactment of 
the bill. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F . Burns 

2624 
Item No. 3 
9/16/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
UNION TRUST COMPANY OF MARYLAND, 
Baltimore, Maryland, 
f°r approval of merger with 
Metropolitan National Bank of 
Maryland, Wheaton, Maryland. 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Union 
Trust Company of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland ("Union Trust"), a 
S t
a t e member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the merger of that bank and Metropolitan National 
B a
n k of Maryland, Wheaton, Maryland ("Metropolitan"), under the charter 
a n d
 name of Union Trust Company of Maryland. As an incident to the 
m e r
g e r the six offices of Metropolitan would become branches of the 
resulting bank, increasing the number of its authorized offices to 55. 
Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has 
^ e n published as required by said Act. 

-2-
Pursuant to the Act, the Board requested reports on the 
competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the 
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The Board has considered all relevant material con-
tained in the record in the light of the factors set forth in the 
Act, including the effect of the proposal on competition, the finan-
cial and managerial resources and prospects of the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and 
finds that: 
Union Trust, the fifth largest bank in Maryland, has deposits 
o f
 $414 million, representing 8.5 per cent of commercial bank deposits 
^ 
the State, and operates 49 offices, 42 of which are in the Baltimore 
a r e a
* 
( A H banking data are as of December 31, 1969.) 
Metropolitan, 
w i
t h total deposits of $12 million, representing .3 per cent of the 
commercial bank deposits in the State, operates five banking offices 
in Montgomery County and one office in Prince Georges County, all 
w
ithin the Washington, D. C . metropolitan area. The closest offices 
o f
 Union Trust and Metropolitan are more than 20 miles apart and there 
i s
 no significant present competition between them. Maryland law per-
mits State-wide branching, but de novo entry by Metropolitan into the 
a r
e a served by Union Trust is considered unlikely because of 
^tropolitan's limited size and the distance from its present offices. 

-3-
While entry by Union Trust into the Washington area through a 
new branch establishment is perhaps more feasible, it does not 
appear likely, and in view of the number of large banks in the 
area and the limited size of Metropolitan, the method of entry 
proposed does not appear anticompetitive. 
On the contrary, the 
entry of Maryland's fifth largest bank into the Washington area 
would likely have a beneficial effect on competition. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on 
competition in any relevant area. Consummation of the merger would 
provide needed management depth to Metropolitan, and a wider variety 
of lending and fiduciary services to its customers. 
It is the 
Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal would be in 
the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the merger so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 

2G27 
-4-
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 17, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2 G 2 8 
Item No. 4 
9/16/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SECURITY TRUST COMPANY OF ROCHESTER 
approval of merger with 
The Cohocton State Bank 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Ban! Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Security 
T r
" s t Company of Rochester, Rochester, New York, a State member bank of 
the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger 
o f
 that bank and The Cohocton State Bank, Cohocton, New York, under the 
charter and name of Security Trust Company of Rochester. As an incident 
t o
 the merger, the sole office of The Cohocton State Bank would become 
Q
 branch of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form 
a
Pproved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the record, 
*
n
cl U cii ng reports received pursuant to the Act on the competitive factors 
Evolved in the proposed merger, in the light of the factors set forth 
l n
 said Act, 

2 6 2 9 
-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set foifth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 17, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2630 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
SECURITY TRUST COMPANY OF ROCHESTER 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE COHOCTON STATE BANK 
STATEMENT 
The Security Trust Company of Rochester, Rochester, New York 
("Security"), with total deposits of $316.8 million, has applied, pur-
suant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior 
a
Pproval of the merger of that bank with The Cohocton State Bank, Cohocton, 
N 
I/ 
flew York ("Cohocton Bank"), which has total deposits of $2.8 million. 
The banks would merge under the charter and name of Security, which is 
a
 member of the Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, 
the sole office of Cohocton Bank would become a branch of Security, in-
°
re
asing the number of its authorized offices to 30. 
Competition. - Security is a subsidiary of Security New York 
S t
ate Corporation, Rochester, New York ("Security Corporation"). 
Security Corporation is New York State's fifth largest bank holding company 
c
°ntrolling less than one per cent of total State deposits. 
Security has 
headquarters in Rochester, where it ranks as the third largest bank and 
c
°nipetes with subsidiaries of four registered bank holding companies, each 
o f
 uhich has total deposits in excess of $1 billion. 
Security operates 
^Fijgures are as of December 31, 1969. 

2631 
-2-
offices throughout the six counties which comprise New York's 
Eighth Banking District, and is Security Corporation's only subsidiary 
in the Eighth Banking District, in which Cohocton Bank is also located. 
Cohocton Bank operates its single office in the agricultural 
community of Cohocton, which has a population of 930, and is situated 
in Steuben County, 55 miles south of Rochester. There is no other 
inking office in the area it serves, which includes Cohocton and the 
immediately surrounding countryside. Three other banks, two of which 
Q t , e
 larger than Cohocton Bank, are located 5 - 8 miles from Cohocton. 
The nearest offices of Security to Cohocton Bank are at 
Naples, Dansville, and Bath, which are 10 miles northeast, 13 miles 
n
°rthwest. and 16 miles southeast, respectively, with an office of 
another bank intervening in each instance. 
Consummation of the merger would eliminate some competition 
between Security and Cohocton Bank; however, the extent of such competition 
is not considered to be substantial. 
It appears there is little potential 
increased competition between them because of Cohocton Bank's size, 
a n
d the rural nature and stable economy of the area it serves. 
Because 
the "home office protection" feature of New York branching law, 
§ 
e
curity could not establish a de novo branch in Cohocton; even in the 
a
^sence of such provision, it does not appear that the economy of the 
a t e a
 is such as to attract new entry. 
The effect of the merger on competition would be no more than 
lightly adverse. 

<c(>32 
-3-
Financial and manageria 1 resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to Security are regarded as reasonably 
satisfactory in the light of steps proposed to improve the bank's 
C a
pital position. Cohocton Bank has an immediate need for experienced 
management personnel, which problem would be resolved through consum-
mation of the instant proposal. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The effect of the 
^ r g e r on banking convenience and needs would be confined to the area 
served by Cohocton Bank. Consummation of the merger would make available 
t o
 the Cohocton area the services of the agricultural department of 
Security, and would result in a broader service offering by the town's 
0 n
l y banking office. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
G
^fect of the proposed merger on competition would be no more than slightly 
adverse and would be offset by benefits to the banking convenience and 
n e
eds of the area served by Cohocton Bank. 
In addition, the merger would 
Provide an immediate solution to Cohocton Bank's need for experienced 
^ a g e m e n t personnel. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
b e
 a p p r o v e d i 
SePtember 17, 1970. 

<V,33 
Item Nos, 5 
9/16/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST UNION, INCORPORATED, 
' 
St, Louis, Missouri,
 
1 
for approval of action to become a bank
 
1 
holding company through the acquisition
 
1 
°f all (less directors
1
 qualifying shares)' 
the voting shares of Vandalia State
 
a 
1 
Bank, Vandalia, Missouri. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(!2 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Union, Incorporated, 
St. Louis, Missouri, which presently owns 97 per cent of the voting 
shares of First National Bank in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, for 
fc
he Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant would become 
a
 bank holding company through the acquisition of all (less directors' 
Qualifying shares) of the voting shares of Vandalia State Bank, 
^tidalia, Missouri. 

As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
b i t t e n notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Finance of the State of Missouri, and requested his views and recom-
n i d a t i o n . 
The Commissioner offered no objection to approval of 
fclle
 application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 22, 1970 (35 Federal Register 11224), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
vi
ev/s with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired 
a n d
 all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
q 
f o m e n t of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
P r o
v i d e d that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
G
 thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
tlu
*n three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 

extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 16, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane and 
Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

J J & 3 6 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST UNION, INCORPORATED, ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First Union, Incorporated, St, Louis, Missouri, ("Applicant"), 
v,
hich presently owns 97 per cent of the voting shares of First National 
B a
n k in St. Louis ("First National"), has filed with the Board, pursuant 
t o
 section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an applica-
tion for prior approval of action to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of all (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
the voting shares of Vandalia State Bank, Vandalia, Missouri ("Vandalia 
Bank"). 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As 
t e
quired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
given to the Commissioner of Finance of the State of Missouri and 
s
 views and recommendations were requested. 
The Commissioner offered 
n
° objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
th 
a t
 the Board shall not approve an acquisition that \ 7 0 u l d result in a 
duopoly or Y/ould be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 

monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
he substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a r
e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communitie 
t o
 be served. 
In each case, the Board is required to take into considera 
tion the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
hank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
n
eeds of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - 
First 
National ($833 million deposits), Applicant's only present banking 
subsidiary and Missouri's second largest banking institution, is located 
in downtown St. L o u i s . V a n d a l i a Bank ($10 million deposits), located 
miles northwest of St. Louis, is the only bank in Vandalia (popula-
tion 3,500) and the second largest of seven independent banks competing 
in 
n
 that area. On consummation of the acquisition of Vandalia Bank, 
applicant would become Missouri s largest registered bank holding 
j Banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect holding company 
°«-*mations and acquisitions approved to date. 

company 
controlling approximately C per cent of commercial bank 
deposits in the State. 
It would remain the State's second largest 
banking organization. 
Because of the distance between First national and Vandalia 
Bank and because of provisions of State law preventing the establish-
ment of branches, there is little competition between the present and 
Proposed subsidiary banks, and little possibility that significant 
competition would develop. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
business of banking in any part of the United States, and would 
n
°t restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create 
a
 monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
fjTI 
e
 financial conditions of Applicant, First National, and Vandalia 
^ n k are satisfactory, their managements are competent, and their 
Prospects are favorable. 
These considerations are consistent with 
approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - 
The 
convenience and needs of customers served by First National would not 
significantly affected by consummation of the proposal. 
However, 
°
er
vices available to customers of Vandalia Bank would be significantly 
l a n d e d . 
In addition to the fact that Vandalia Bank would be able to 

2639 
- 4 -
weet larger credit demands in its area with greater facility through 
Participation with First national, it is contemplated that it would 
establish a consumer loan department offering a broader variety of 
installment loans, an indirect automobile dealer financing program, 
devolving credit plans, and a bank charge card program. 
These considerations provide support for approval of the 
a
Pplication. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
ox.";,.
1
 
.<• ' 
• 
. 
. , 
£ a
ctc contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
a
Pplication should be approved. 
September 16, 1970. 

£840 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
9/16/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 16, 1970. 
Mr. Harold E. Uthoff, Chief Examiner, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
64106 
Dear Mr. Uthoff: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of First Union, Incorporated, St. Louis, 
Missouri, which presently owns 97 per cent of the voting shares of 
First National Bank in St. Louis, Missouri, for the Board's prior 
approval of action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of all (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the voting shares of Vandalia State Bank, Vandalia, Missouri. 
Enclosed is the Board's Order, together with the accompanying 
Statement and the press release on this action. 
Inasmuch as the notice of the Board's action to be published 
in the Federal Register will state that copies of the Board's Statement 
are available at your Bank, an additional 10 copies of the aforementioned 
documents are enclosed. Also enclosed is a copy of the Board's letter by 
w
hich Applicant has been advised of the Board's action. 
In its consideration of the case, the Board noted that Applicant 
Presently holds, and has requested an indication by the Board with respect 
t o
 its authority to retain, 99.04 per cent of the voting shares of St. Louis 
Union Trust Company ("Trust Company"). 
Under § 4(c)(5) of the Act and 
Board interpretations, a bank holding company may own all (but not less 
than all) of the voting shares of a company that performs, on premises 
banking subsidiaries of the holding company, trust activities which 
c
ould be performed by a national bank. As long as Trust Company continues 
to operate only at such a location and limits its activities to those 
w
hich could be performed by the trust department of First National, 
A
Ppli cant could own all of Trust Company's shares without Board approval. 
In this case, because Applicant owns less than all of such 
shares, the requirements of the § 4(c)(5) exemption would not be met 

Mr. Harold E . Uthoff 
- 2 -
2641 
completely. However, to the extent that any violation of the Act would 
trace solely to the fact that Applicant lacks, by .96 per cent, ownership 
of all such shares, the Board is of the view that such violation would 
he de minimus.In such case, it appears that no public interest would 
be served by requiring a hearing which must precede a determination 
under § 4(c)(8), the only exemption which appears fully applicable. 
Accordingly, the Board will not object to retention by Applicant, 
without a § 4(c)(8) determination, of 99.04 per cent of the shares of 
Trust Company, as long as activities of the latter are limited to those 
which could be conducted 
a national bank, and as long as it continues 
to operate only on premises of a subsidiary bank. 
Please advise Applicant of the Board's views on the matter. 
For the information of your staff, be advised that the Board 
in reaching the above determination, considered the fact that Trust 
Company would hold, in a fiduciary capacity, shares which Applicant 
could not hold. The Board concluded that since Trust Company, in the 
conduct of its business, will be subject to the same limitations as a 
national bank, the exemptions from sections 3 and 4 of the Act for 
shares held by a bank in a fiduciary capacity may appropriately be 
considered applicable to shares held by it in such capacity. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures 

2642 
Item No. 7 
9/16/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CITIZENS BANCSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC., 
Hollywood, Florida, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
°f 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Citizens National Bank of West 
Hollywood, West Hollywood; Citizens 
National Bank of Hollywood, Hollywood; 
Citizens National Bank of Miami, Dade 
County; and Citizens National Bank of 
Davie, Davie, all in Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Citizens Bancshares of 
Florida, Inc., Hollywood, Florida, for the Board's prior approval 
of 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 

2B43 
-2-
each of four banks in Florida: 
Citizens National Bank of West 
Hollywood, West Hollywood; Citizens National Bank of Hollywood, 
Hollywood; Citizens National Bank of Miami, Dade County; and 
Citizens National Bank of Davie, Davie. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice to the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the 
application and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 2, 1970 (35 Federal Register 10810), which 
Provided ati opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
e
*Pired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and 
hereby is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not 
ke consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 

-2-
d a
t e of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 16, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2 8 4 5 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CITIZENS BANCSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC., 
HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Citizens Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Hollywood, Florida 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1950, an application for approval 
°f action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
per cent or more of the voting shares of Citizens National Bank 
West Hollywood, West Hollywood (
! i
West Hollywood Bank"), Citizens 
National Bank of Hollywood, Hollywood ("Hollywood Bank"), Citizens 
National Bank of Miami, Dade County ("Miami Bank"), and Citizens 
National Bank of Davie, Davie ("Davie Bank"), all in Florida. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authorities. - As 
r e
quired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
r e
ceipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
r e
quested his views and recommendation. 
The Comptroller recommended 
a
Pproval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 

monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monop-
°ly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the pro-
Posed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by 
fc
he probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
In each case, the Board 
is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - The 
registered bank holding companies in Florida control 49.2 per 
1/ 
cent of the deposits held by all banks in the State. 
The 
acquisition of West Hollywood Bank ($44 million deposits), 
Hollywood Bank ($19 million deposits), Miami Bank ($11 million 
deposits), and Davie Bank ($2 million deposits), would result in 
Applicant becoming the State's sixteenth largest holding company, 
v
ith control of .6 per cent of the total State deposits. 
i/ Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of December 31, 1969, 
a
djusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board to date. 

-3-
2 6 4 7 
All of the proposed subsidiary banks are located in south-
eastern Florida. West Hollywood Bank, Hollywood Bank, and Davie Bank 
are located in south Broward County. 
The remaining bank, Miami Bank, 
is located in northeast Dade County, which adjoins Broward County. 
None of the proposed subsidiaries is more than 10 miles from another, 
and they primarily serve an area extending 10 to 15 miles from 
Hollywood. 
Considering existing affiliations in the area, there 
a
?e six banking groups of which the proposed subsidiaries constitute 
the second largest, with control of 25.A per cent of area deposits. 
The proposed subsidiary banks are so located as to be 
competitors, were it not for existing affiliations between them. 
The owners and management of West Hollywood Bank sponsored the 
establishment of Hollywood Bank in 1962, Miami Bank in 1963, and 
Davie Bank in 1969. Over 50 per cent of the stock of each of the 
hanks has been commonly owned since their respective establishment, 
a
nd interlocking directorships and common executive management 
e
*ist. The banks presently advertise and operate as a group, and 
a r e 
s o
 closely related as to constitute a single competitive force. 
The relationship among them is such as to preclude the existence of 
m e
aningf ul competition. 
Further, in view of the interdependence 
the banks and the origins of their relationship, the possibility 
future disaffliliation and resulting competition appears to be 
demote. Thus, Applicant's proposal would neither eliminate present 
Competition nor foreclose significant potential competition. 

:648 
n r 
K 
•K-
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or 
he in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States, 
and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or 
tend to create a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant was recently organized and has not engaged in any business 
activities. 
Its projected financial condition is satisfactory, its 
management competent, and its prospects, which depend on those of 
its proposed subsidiaries appear favorable. 
The capital of West Hollywood Bank is currently below a 
desirable level; Applicant, however, has indicated a firm intent 
to augment the bank's capital in the near future, and, in that 
U g h t , the financial condition of the proposed subsidiaries is 
regarded as satisfactory. Their managements are capable, and their 
Prospects favorable. These considerations are consistent with 
a
PProval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
hanking needs of the Hollywood area are being adequately served by 
Present banking facilities, and would not be significantly affected 
hy consummation of the present proposal. However, Applicant pro-
Poses that the banks will offer trust services, which are not 
Presently available from any bank within the area. 
Participation 

°f loans among the subsidiary banks would assist in meeting demands 
for construction financing in the area. Although both of these 
improvements could probably be accomplished within the present 
a
ffiliation, Applicant's proposal would facilitate them, and their 
initiation would contribute to the convenient satisfaction of the 
area's banking requirements. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the areas involved lend some weight in favor of approval of the 
a
Pplication. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the 
relevant facts contained in the record, and in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
S e
Ptember 16, 1970. 

2650 
Item No. 8 
9/16/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA . 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
MERRILL BANKSHARES COMPANY,
 
1 
Bangor, Maine,
 
1 
for approval of the acquisition of all
 
1 
°f the voting shares of the successor
 
1 
by merger to Federal Trust Company, 
Waterville, Maine.
 
1 
ORDER 
There has come before the Board of Governors a request by 
Merrill Bankshares Company, Bangor, Maine, a registered bank holding 
company, that the Board vacate its Order of April 27, 1970, approving 
the acquisition by Merrill Bankshares Company of all the voting 
shares of the successor by merger to Federal Trust Company, 
Waterville, Maine. 
Prior to the issuance by the Board of its Order of 
April 27, 1970, a minority stockholder of Federal Trust Company 
Instituted a suit in the Superior Court of Maine attacking, as 
Illegal under State law, the merger of Federal Trust Company with 
Silver Street Trust Company, a new State bank organized to enable 
the holding company to acquire all of the shares of Federal Trust 

Company, 
The State court suit sought to prevent consummation of the 
holding company's plan for the acquisition of the shares of the suc-
cesor to Federal Trust Company- 
The Maine Superior Court ruled 
against the plaintiff in a decision dated April 9, 1970. Marcou v . 
Federal Trust Company, et al, Civil Action No. 2950. 
However, on 
August 14, 1970, the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine, upon an appeal 
from the Maine Superior Court decision, held that the holding com-
pany's plan for the merger of Federal Trust Company with Silver 
Street Trust Company and an exchange of the shares of the resulting 
company for the shares of the holding company is unlawful under the 
Maine merger statute. 
By letter dated August 25, 1970, the holding company 
advised the Board that the acquisition that was the subject of the 
Board's Order of April 27, 1970, would not be consummated because 
'the 
State Supreme Judicial Court had ruled that the plan is not 
Permissible under State law; and the holding company requested 
that the Board vacate said Order of April 27, 1970. 
Upon consideration of the August 25 request by Merrill 
Bankshares Company, the interests of the participants in the matter 
the application of Merrill Bankshares Company to acquire the 
v
°ting shares of the successor by merger to Federal Trust Company, 
a n d
 the matters set forth herein, the Board has concluded that 
Applicant's request should be granted and that the Board's afore-
mentioned Order of April 27, 1970, should be vacated. 
Accordingly, 

2652 
-3-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that Applicant's request for vacatioh 
of the Board's Order of April 27, 1970, which approved Merrill 
Bankshares Company's application under the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956 for prior approval of the acquisition of all of the voting 
shares of the successor by merger to the Federal Trust Company be, 
and hereby is, granted; and said Order is vacated. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 16, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and 
Maisel. 
(Signed) 
Robert C . Holland 
Robert C . Holland, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

For immediate release. 
September 16, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
amended an export loan definition in the guidelines under which U.S. 
banks limit their lending to foreigners. 
Banks may now count export 
term loans of any size against their Export Term-Loan Ceilings under 
the voluntary foreign credit restraint guidelines. Heretofore, only 
such loans amounting to $250,000 or more each were to be counted under 
those Ceilings. 
Governor Andrew F. Brimmer, the member of the Board who has 
r
esponsibility for administering the guidelines, explained that the 
$250,000 floor had been carried over, along with other criteria, from 
a
 Treasury Department reporting requirement. 
The latter requirement 
had been adopted because it was already in wide use among banks when 
the Export Term-Loan Ceilings were created in December 1969 as a 
S u
Pplement to General Ceilings. 
Experience since that date indicates 
that the dollar floor for export term loans can be dropped without 
Q d
ministrative difficulty and with some benefit, particularly for 
small e r banks, as well as for smaller exporters who seek to arrange 
C r
edits for their foreign customers. 
Use of the Export Term-Loan Ceilings, Governor Brimmer added, 
h a s
 grown modestly. 
Presently, these Ceilings in the aggregate are 
$ l 
bill ion (compared to an aggregate of $10 billion of General 

2 6 5 4 
f l i n g s ) , and outstanding loans on exports shipped since December 1, 
have only r e c e n t l y 
s u r p a s s e d 
$ 1 0 Q ^
^ 
^ 
^ 
^ 
• 
l
- n s , he pointed out, are exempt from the guidelines under other 
Provisions; for example, loans to Canadians, loans guaranteed by the 
Export-Import Bank, and loans covered by FCIA insurance. 
The amendment announced today is effective starting with the 
- T e n t monthly reporting period. 
This means that export term loans, 
r
egardless of size, granted after August 31, 1970, may be charged to 
a
 bank's Export Term-Loan Ceiling rather than to its General Ceiling. 
A copy of the amendment is attached. 
-0-
A t t
a c h m e n t s 

2655 
Falance of Payments Program 
• 
Amendment to Revised Guidelines 
For Banks and Nonbank Financial Institutions 
(Announced December 17, 1969, and amended 
March 17 and May 13, 1970) 
Guideline Provision II-G-3 is amended to read as-'follows: 
3. An "export term loan" is a claim on a foreigner having 
an original maturity of more than 1 year and for the demonstrable 
financing of one or more specific export transactions involving the 
shipment 
of U.S. goods to a foreign destination or the performance 
U.S. services abroad. The loans may be made directly by a bank 
°r may be made indirectly by a bank through its purchase of documented 
loan paper. For the purpose of the present guidelines, such loans 
that are to be counted against an Export Term-Loan Ceiling are con-
fined to credits financing U.S. exports shipped after November 30, 1969, 
services performed abroad by U.S. individuals or U.S. firms after 
November 30, 1969. 
Such loans exclude debt obligations acquired by 
a
 bank and having not more than a year of remaining term until maturity 
(reg 
ardless of original length of maturity). The loans also exclude 
^port-Import Bank certificates of participation in a pool of loans. 
(Partic 
ipations with the Export-Import Bank in particular loans and 
loan paper purchased from the Export-Import Bank of foreign obligors 
a r
e exempted under section II-B-2, above.) 

2856 
B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
9/16/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B C A R O 
September 30, 1970 
Dear Sir: 
As you are aware, earlier this year the Board retained 
M r . Francis D. Lethbridge of the Washington, D. C. firm of Keyes, 
Lethbridge and Condon as its consulting architect on Reserve Bank 
building matters and to assist in the preparation of a statement 
of building guidelines. 
In that latter connection, the Board has reviewed a draft 
entitled "Guidelines for Design and Construction of Federal Reserve 
Bank Buildings" and has approved it for the purpose of circulation 
to the Reserve Banks. Accordingly, two copies are enclosed. 
Additional ones may be obtained from the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations. 
The Board would appreciate receiving any comments you may 
have on the draft statement at your earliest convenience. 
Enclosures 
Very truly yours, 
SX^ 
/ ^ i 
m 
/ V _ 
/ 
X 
/ 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
^ 
Deputy Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

Item No. 11 
9/16/70 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS CF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265--RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Approval of Issuance of Obligations 
by Edge and Agreement Corporations 
1. Effective immediately, § 265.la(a) is amended by adding 
a new subparagraph (4) as follows: 
§ 265.1a 
Specific functions delegated to Board members. 
(a) A.ny Board member designated by the Chairman is authorized 
under sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and Parts 211 
and 213 of this chapter (Regulations K and M): 
it 
* 
"k 
"k 
"k 
(4) Under § 211.4 of this chapter (Regulation K), to approve 
the issuance by an Edge or Agreement corporation or a subsidiary thereof 
of debentures, bonds> promissory notes (with a maturity of more than one 
year), or similar obligations, provided that such corporation is deter-
mined to be in satisfactory condition and the delegee is satisfied that 
the case involves no question of general policy. 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to delegate to a member 
of the Board authority to approve the issuance of obligations by Edge 
a
n d Agreement corporations in certain circumstances. 
b . The provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States 
Code, relating to notice and public participation and to deferred 

• • 
2658 
- 2 -
effective dates, were not followed in connection with the adoption 
of this amendment, because the rules contained herein are procedural 
in nature and accordingly do not constitute substantive rules subject 
to the requirements of such section. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 16, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
[SEAL] 
