Minutes for March 8, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 
Amendments to Regulations T, U, and G. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. 
If you were present at the meet-
ing, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you 
were not present, your initials will indicate only that you have 
seen the minutes. 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 8, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 
9:35 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Messrs. Eckert and Keir, Assistant Advisers, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Dahl and Egertson, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Doyle and Plotkin of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Fry and Greenspun of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Poundstone of the Division of Examinations 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

3/8/68 
-2-
Amendments to Regulations T, U, and G (Items 1-4). There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated March 7, 1968, from the Legal 
Division regarding proposed technical amendments to Regulations T, U, 
and G, relating to margin requirements for securities transactions. 
Mr. Solomon noted that the proposed amendments were designed 
to meet needs for technical improvements that had come to light subse-
quent to the Board's action on February 1, 1968. For the most part, 
the proposals were not substantive. He added that a few letters had 
been received suggesting that the requirement of a purpose statement 
under Regulation U be suspended or deferred, but he recommended against 
following that suggestion. 
Miss Hart then described the principal amendments that were 
proposed and stated that the staff requested the Board's permission to 
make further editorial or clarifying changes. 
After discussion the amendments were approved unanimously, 
effective March 11, 1968, subject to the minor changes Miss Hart had 
mentioned and with the understanding that an appropriate press state-
ment would be issued. 
Attached as Items 1-3 are copies of the amendments in the form 
in which they were transmitted to the Federal Register for publication. 
Attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of the press statement announcing 
adoption of the amendments. 

3/8/68 
-3-
The Board also agreed that parties who had requested suspension 
or deferral of the purpose statement requirement should be notified 
that the Board declined to take such action. 
Market maker exemption (Regulation U) . There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated March 7, 1968, from Messrs. Solomon and Keir 
regarding a proposal, which had been published for comment on February 1, 
to exempt from margin requirements bank loans made to dealers to finance 
their market-making activities in convertible debt securities. 
It had 
been contemplated that if the exemption were adopted it would become 
effective not later than March 11, 1968, the date when transactions in 
convertible securities would become subject to a 50 per cent margin 
requirement. 
Firms that wanted to apply for the exemption had been asked to 
file weekly reports of their operations and had been informed that the 
Board could not determine their eligibility for exemption until reports 
covering at least three weeks' operations were received. 
Seventeen 
firms (15 in New York City and 2 in California) had requested copies 
of the reporting form, but thus far only 2 had actually filed reports 
and those firms had reported for only one week. It was not clear 
whether the poor response to the reporting requirement reflected a 
rather casual interest in the proposed exemption, a tendency to resist 
filing the requested data (which were detailed and highly confidential), 
or simply administrative delays, but all three reasons seemed to have 

3/8/68 
-4-
been involved. 
In any event, it would not be possible to determine 
by March 11 which firms seemed to be making regular markets, and in 
which issues, or whether more complete data might throw further light 
on the wisdom of adopting any exemption provision at all. It was under-
stood that the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York were 
sending the Board a memorandum opposing the market-maker exemption. 
The memorandum noted that in order to gain some judgment about 
the severity of any market reaction that might develop if all firms 
were forced to operate without an exemption after March 11, the New 
York Reserve Bank had called each of the 15 New York firms that had 
requested report forms. The responsible officer of one firm indicated 
that the reporting requirement would be too burdensome and his firm 
was no longer interested in applying for an exemption. While most of 
the other firms said they still planned to file reports, there seemed 
to be a fairly general feeling that they could get along without an 
exemption, at least temporarily. 
Three possible courses of action were suggested for considera-
tion: 
(1) The Board might grant a temporary exemption for all 17 firms 
that had requested forms, with the understanding that the exemption 
would be withdrawn if the requested weekly reports were not filed by 
some given date, or if analysis of the reports indicated that the firm 
was not in fact performing as a market maker. 
(2) The Board might 
defer any action on the proposed exemption until those who still 

3/8/68 
-5-
indicated they planned to file reports had done so, the data supplied 
had been analyzed, and a judgment had been made whether objective mea-
sures of the market-making function could be effectively established. 
(3) The Board might interpret the reporting delay as evidence of a 
limited need on the part of the alleged market makers and decide not 
to provide an exemption. While each of these approaches had disadvan-
tages, the staff believed that the second alternative would be most 
consistent with the procedure previously contemplated by the Board, 
namely, a review of actual operating performance before deciding 
whether to grant an exemption. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that a definite time limit 
should be established for filing the reports that presumably would 
provide a basis for arriving at a decision whether or not to provide 
an exemption. He suggested that the cut-off date be set in the fairly 
near future. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York apparently believed 
there was sufficient information on hand to form a judgment; it was 
expected to oppose providing an exemption. The Board's staff, how-
ever, appeared to feel that there was not sufficient information avail-
able to make a recommendation for or against granting an exemption. 
In the circumstances, although the pressure was on the firms that 
wanted to prove eligibility for exemption, he believed that the matter 
should be cleared up one way or the other fairly soon. 

3/8/68 
-6-
Governor Mitchell observed that if the firms who might qualify 
failed to provide the information that had been requested, they must 
not place too much value on an exemption. Therefore, perhaps the 
Board should not provide for one. At least the previous uncertainty 
regarding the number of firms that might apply for an exemption had 
been resolved--it now seemed evident that only a relatively few firms 
would be interested. 
Further discussion developed a consensus in favor of the second 
alternative mentioned in the memorandum. There was general agreement 
with a suggestion by Governor Robertson that the firms in question be 
informed that the Board did not want to leave pending indefinitely the 
question whether or not to provide an exemption for market makers, and 
therefore would like to have the necessary reports submitted promptly. 
Governor Maisel then withdrew from the meeting, and action was 
taken on the following matters subject to ratification at the next 
meeting at which a quorum was present. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco on March 7, 1968, 
of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 

3/8/68 
-7-
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under 
the respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International Finance 
5 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting per-
mission to participate in underwriting an offer-
ing of common shares of Compania Fundidora de 
Fierro y Acero de Monterrey S.A., a Mexican 
corporation, and to acquire shares of that 
corporation. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minne- 
6 
apolis approving a revision in the employee 
salary structure applicable to the Bank and 
its Helena Branch. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of The Lancaster National Bank, Irvington, Virginia, with Chesapeake 
Banking Company, Lively, Virginia, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Lancaster 
National Bank, Irvington, and Chesapeake Banking Company, 
Lively, would eliminate the small amount of existing and 
potential competition between them. The overall competi-
tive effect would be slightly adverse. 
Messrs. Hexter, Doyle, and Plotkin then withdrew from the 
meeting, as did Miss Hart, and the following entered: 

3/8/68 
-8-
Mr. Bernard of the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, Baker, Ettin, Fry, 
Kelty, and Kichline of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Hersey, Katz, Wood, Bradshaw, Bryant, Ruckdeschel, 
and Stem of the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty commented on conditions in the 
Government securities market, after which Mr. Fry discussed bank credit 
developments. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Mr. Stem reviewed international financial developments, with 
special reference to losses by the London gold pool and pressures on 
the pound sterling and the Canadian dollar. 
There followed a discussion of the agreement between govern-
ments, announced yesterday, through which Canada was given a full 
exemption from the U.S. balance of payments program adopted at the 
beginning of this year. It was pointed out that the agreement would 
necessitate amendments to the current guidelines prescribed by the 
Board for foreign credit restraint by banks and nonbank financial 
institutions. 
It was understood that the necessary changes had been 
drafted and would be presented to the Board within a few days. 
Copies of the materials used during today's review of domestic 
and international developments have been placed in the Board's files. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3/8/68 
-9-
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Joanne F. Ellis as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,615, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Will iam Douglas as Laborer, Division of Administrative Services 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective March 10, 1968 
Mary E. Chester, Minutes Clerk, Office of the Secretary, from 
$5,327 to $5,493 per annum. 
Lawrence F. Noble, Senior Attorney, Legal Division, from $15,841 
to $16,369 per annum. 
Paul L. Kelty, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from $9,979 to $10,301 per annum. 
Anniece R. Laurie, Clerk-Typist, Division of International 
Finance, from $4,615 to $4,764 per annum. 
Frank C. Guth, Jr., Review Examiner, Division of Examinations, 
from $15,307 to $15,757 per annum. 
John F. Rand, Systems Engineer, Division of Data Processing, 
from $18,404 to $19,017 per annum. 
Transfer 
Jacqueline Ann McDaniel, from the position of Programmer in the 
Division of Data Processing to the position of Statistical Assistant 
in the Division of Research and Statistics, with an increase in basic 
annual salary from $7,409 to $7,876, effective March 10, 1968. 

*JO i 
3/8/68 
-10-
Governor Robertson today noted on 
behalf of the Board a memorandum 
advising that Lucile MacLean, Assis-
tant Chief Librarian in the Division 
of Research and Statistics, had filed 
application for retirement effective 
March 30, 1968. 
f UU' ..iO .. 
.•>': H. 1 , 
„, fh th': : 
; r . r 
; 
nc ' ! id ' i, j^V 
i„; I 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 1 
3/8/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. T] 
PART 220 - CREDIT BY BROKERS, DEALERS, AND 
MEMBERS OF NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES 
Technical Amendments 
By document appearing in the Federal Register of February 8, 1968 
(33 
F.R. 2695) the Board of Governors announced the adoption of amendments 
t 0 §§ 220.1 through 220.8 of Part 220, effective March 11, 1968. By document 
spearing in the Federal Register of March 7, 1968 (33 F.R. 4249), the 
e ffective date of § 220.7(f) was deferred to April 10, 1968. Certain 
t e chnical amendments have now been adopted by the Board, all effective 
^arch 11, 1968. Those amendments and the reasons therefor are as follows: 
l.a. Section 220.3(a) is amended to read as follows: 
^ ^ 0 . 3 
General accounts. 
Contents of general account.--All financial relations between 
a C reditor and a customer, whether recorded in one record or in more than 
n e record, shall be included in and be deemed to be parts of the customer's 
Sen 
e*al account with the creditor, except that the relations which § 220.4 
Per nuts to be included in any special account provided for by that section 
Q y b e included in the appropriate special account, and all transactions in 
0 n ,modities, and, except to the extent provided in paragraph (b)(2) of 
§ J o 
•3, all transactions in non-equity securities, exempted securities, and 

1 V J Q 
- 2 -
(4) In the event that any registered stock is substituted 
for a convertible security held as collateral for a credit extended 
under this section, such registered stock and any credit extended on 
it in compliance with this Part shall thereupon be treated as subject 
to paragraph (c) of this section and not to this paragraph and the 
credit extended under this paragraph shall be reduced by an amount 
equal to the maximum loan value of the security withdrawn. 
k 
k 
k 
b. The purpose of the change in paragraph (1) is to clarify 
that the special loan value provided for credit extended under such 
Paragraph is available only for collateral consisting of convertible debt 
securities, and that preferred stocks, whether or not registered on a 
rational securities exchange which are convertible into registered stocks 
have the same loan value as such registered stocks. The purpose of the 
change in paragraph (4) is to resolve an ambiguity and eliminate sur-
plusage. 
2.a. Section 207.2(g) is amended to read as follows: 
5 207.2 
Definitions. 
k 
k 
k 
(g) The term "indirectly secured" includes, except as provided 
§ 207.4(a)(3), any arrangement with the customer under which the customer's 
right or ability to sell, pledge, or otherwise dispose of registered equity 
securities owned by the customer is in any way restricted so long as the 

credit remains outstanding, or under which the exercise of such right, 
whether by written agreement or otherwise, is cause for acceleration of the 
maturity of the credit: Provided, That the foregoing shall not apply (1) 
if such restriction arises solely by virtue of an arrangement with the 
customer which pertains generally to the customer's assets unless a sub-
stantial part of such assets consists of registered equity securities, or 
(2) if the lender in good faith has not relied upon such securities as 
collateral in the extension or maintenance of the particular credit: And 
Provided further, That the foregoing shall not apply to stock held by the 
lender only in the capacity of custodian, depositary or trustee, or under 
similar circumstances, if the lender in good faith has not relied upon such 
securities as collateral in the extension or maintenance of the particular 
credit. 
* 
"k -k 
b. The purpose of the change is to eliminate certain redundancies 
and to clarify that the paragraph does not apply to certain routine negative 
covenants in loan agreements. 
3.a. Section 207.4(a)(1) is amended to read as follows: 
§ 207.4 
Miscellaneous provisions. 
(a) Stock option and employee stock purchase plans. * * * 
(1) Sections 207.1(c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j) of 
this Part shall not apply (i) to any such credit extended to finance the 
e*ercise of such rights granted to any named officer or employee prior to 
February 1, 1968, and effectively exercised by such officer or employee 

- 4 - 
- ' 
prior to February 1, 1969, or (ii) to any credit extended prior to 
February 1, 1969, to a plan-lender pursuant to a bona fide written commit-
ment in existence on February 1, 1968, to finance the exercise of such 
rights and by such plan-lender from the proceeds of such credit to any 
°fficer or employee to finance the exercise of rights granted pursuant to 
0 stock purchase plan under which the exercise price does not exceed 
->u per cent of the market value of the stock subject to purchase, valued as 
the offering date thereof. 
* * * 
b. This change is to correct an unintended omission of a reference 
t o § 207.l(j), and to clarify that the section was not intended to prevent 
tl*e implementation of certain contractual rights entered into prior to 
February 1, 1968. 
* 
* 
* 
4.a. Section 207.5(b) is amended to read as follows: 
(b) Maxirrum loan value of convertible debt securities 
•SHkject to section 207.1(d).--For the purpose of section 207.1, the maximum 
l°an value of any security against which credit is extended pursuant to 
section 207.1(d) shall be 50 per cent of its current market value, as 
determined by any reasonable method. 
b. This change is solely to conform the name of the type of 
^ a n throughout the regulation. 

- 5 - 
9 4 2 
The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
Elating to notice and public participation and to deferred effective dates, 
v ; e r e 
n o t followed in connection with these amendments. 
Since the amendments 
are designed to clarify other amendments that are to become effective on 
March 11, 1968, such procedures would result in delays that would be contrary 
to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 8th day of March 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
SEAL 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
item No. 2 
3/8/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Uj 
PART 221 - CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF 
PURCHASING OR CARRYING REGISTERED STOCKS 
By document appearing in the Federal Register of February 8, 
1968 (33 F.R. 2702) the Board of Governors announced the adoption of 
amendments to §§ 221.1 through 221.4 of Part 221, effective March 11, 
1968. By document appearing in the Federal Register of March 7, 1968 
(33 F.R. 4249) the effective date of § 221.3(u) was deferred to April 10, 
1968. Certain technical amendments have now been adopted by the Board, 
all effective March 11, 1968. Those amendments and the reasons therefor 
are as follows: 
l.a. Section 221.3(a) is amended to read as follows: 
§ 221.3 
Miscellaneous provisions. 
(
a ) 
Required statement as to stock-secured loan. - In connection 
with an extension of credit secured directly or indirectly by any stock, 
the bank shall obtain and retain in its records for at least six years 
after such credit is extinguished a statement in conformity with the re-
quirements of Federal Reserve Form U-l executed by the recipient of such 
extension of credit (sometimes referred to as the "customer") and executed 
and accepted in good faith by a duly authorized officer of the bank prior 
to such extension: 
Provided, That this requirement shall not apply 
to any credit described in paragraph (o) of this section or § 221.2 of 
this Part except for credit described in paragra^ho 2.71.9(f)., 
,-u\d <U) 
extended to peroono who are not brokers 

in other securities having no loan value in a general account under the 
Provisions of § 220.3(c) and § 220.8 (the Supplement to Regulation T) 
(except unissued securities, short sales and purchases to cover short sales, 
securities positions to offset short sales, and contracts involving an 
endorsement or guarantee of any put, call, or other option), shall be 
-U 
included in the appropriate special account provided for by § 220.4. During 
any period when such § 220.8 specifies that registered equity securities 
bhall have no loan value in a general account, any transaction consisting of 
a Purchase of a security other than a purchase of a security to reduce or 
close out a short position shall be effected in the special cash account 
Provided for by § 220.4(c) or in some other appropriate special account 
Provided for by § 220.4. 
* * * 
b. This change is to implement the change in § 220.3(d) 
C elating to execution in the general account of short sales of certain debt 
securities. 
* * * 
2.a. Section 220.3(b)(1) is amended to read as follows: 
® 220.3 General accounts. 
* * * 
(b) General rule. (1) A creditor shall not effect for or with 
3 n y c u s t o m e r in a general account, special bond account subject to § 220.4(i), 
op special convertible debt security account (sometimes referred to herein 
special convertible security account") subject to § 220.4(j) any 
M - 4. 

transaction which, in combination with the other transactions effected in 
such account on the same day, creates an excess of the adjusted debit 
balance of such account over the maximum loan value of the securities in 
such account, or increases any such excess, unless in connection therewith 
the creditor obtains, as promptly as possible and in any event before the 
expiration of five full business days following the date of such trans-
action, the deposit into such account of cash or securities in such amount 
that the cash deposited plus the loan value of the securities deposited 
equals or exceeds the excess so created or the increase so caused. 
* 
* 
* 
b. The change is to clarify that the special loan value provided 
for credit extended under § 220.4(j) is available only for collateral con-
sisting of convertible debt securities. 
3.a. Section 220.3(c)(2) is amended to read as follows: 
§ 220.3 
General accounts. 
* 
* 
* 
(c) Maximum loan value and current market value. * * * 
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the 
Maximum loan value of a security in a general account, special bond account 
subject to § 220.4(i), or special convertible security account subject to 
§ 220.4(j) shall be such maximum loan value as the Board shall prescribe 
frr°m time to time in § 220.8 (the Supplement to Regulation T). No collatera 
°ther than an exempted security or a registered non-equity security held in 
such account on March 11, 1968 and continuously thereafter, or registered 
equity security shall have any loan value in a general account except that 

a registered equity security eligible for a special convertible security 
account pursuant to § 220.4(j) shall have loan value in a general account 
only if held in the account on March 11, 1968 and continuously thereafter. 
* * * 
b. The change is solely to conform the names of accounts 
throughout the regulation. 
4.a. Section 220.3(d)(3) is revised to read as follows: 
§ 220.3 
General accounts. 
* * * 
(d) Adjusted debit balance. * * * 
(3) the current market value of any securities (other than 
unissued securities) sold short in the general account plus, for each such 
security (other than an exempted security), such amount as the Board shall 
Prescribe 
from time to time in § 220.8 (the Supplement to Regulation T) as 
the margin required for such short sales, except that such amount so pre-
scribed in such § 220.8 need not be included when there are held in the 
general account the same securities or securities exchangeable or con-
V ertible within 90 calendar days, without restriction other than the payment 
°f money, into such securities sold short; 
* * * 
b. The change is to clarify that short sales shall be executed 
in the general account, including short sales of debt securities ccn-
V ertible into such securities sold short. 

5.a. Section 220.3(g) is amended to read as follows: 
§ 220.3 
General accounts. 
* * * 
(g) Transactions on given day. For the purposes of paragraph (b) 
this section, the question of whether or not an excess of the adjusted 
debit balance of a general account, special bond account subject to 
5 220.4(i), or special convertible security account subject to § 220.4(j) 
°ver the maximum loan value of the securities in such account is created or 
increased on a given day shall be determined on the basis of all the trans-
actions in the account on such day exclusive of any deposit of cash, deposit 
°f securities, covering transaction or other liquidation that has been 
effected on such day, pursuant to the requirement of paragraphs (b) or (e) 
this section, in connection with a transaction on a previous day. In 
any case in which an excess so created, or increase 
so caused, by trans-
actions on a given day does not exceed $100, the creditor need not obtain 
the deposit specified therefor in subparagraph (b)(1) of this section. 
Ar*y transaction which serves to meet the requirements of paragraph (e) of 
this section or otherwise serves to permit any offsetting transaction in 
account shall, to that extent, be unavailable to permit any other trans-
action in such account. For the purposes of this Part (Regulation T), if 
a security has maximum loan value under subparagraph (c)(1) of this section 
i n a general account, a sale of the same security (even though not the same 
c.
ertificate) in such account 

-6-
948 
shall be deemed to be a long sale and shall not be deemed to be or treated 
as a short sale. 
* * 
* 
b. The change is solely to conform the names of accounts through 
the regulation. 
6.a. Section 220.4(j)(l), (2) and (4) is amended to read as 
follows: 
5 220.4 
Special accounts. 
* 
* 
* 
Special convertible debt security account. 
(1) In a special 
convertible debt security account a creditor may extend credit on any 
registered equity security consisting of a debt security convertible into 
s tock or a debt security carrying a warrant or right to subscribe to or 
Purchase stock. 
(2) A special convertible debt security account shall be subject 
t o the same conditions to which it would be subject if it were a general 
account except that the maximum loan value of the securities in the account 
shall be as prescribed from time to time in § 220.8 (the Supplement to 
Regulation T). 
-
* 
* 
* 
(4) In the event any stock is to be substituted for a security 
^eld in this account, or if a security held in this account is to be used 
t o offset a short sale in the general account, such security shall thereupon 
ke transferred to the customer's general account against a deposit of cash 

or registered equity securities eligible for an extension of credit in 
this account (counted at their maximum loan value) equal to at least the 
maximum loan value of the security for which such substitution is made, 
Without regard to the retention requirement of section 220.3(b)(2). 
* * • 
b. The change in paragraph (1) is to clarify that the special 
loan value provided for credit extended under section 220.4(j) is available 
only for collateral consisting of convertible debt securities. The change 
In paragraph (2) is solely to conform the names of accounts throughout the 
regulation. The change in paragraph (4) is to clarify that a customer may 
aPply the loan value released to him when he deposits into the margin account 
stock received on conversion of a convertible bond against the retention 
requirement imposed under this section. 
6.a. Section 220.6(k) is amended to read as follows: 
5 220.6 
Certain technical details. 
* * * 
(
k ) 
Innocent mistakes. 
If any failure to comply with this Part 
———-——————„ 
results from a mechanical mistake made in good faith in executing a trans-
i t i o n , recording, determining, or calculating any loan, balance, market 
Price or loan value, or other similar mechanical mistake, the creditor shall 
n°t be deemed guilty of a violation of this Part if promptly after the 
discovery of such mistake he takes whatever action may be practicable in 
the circumstances to remedy such mistake. 
„ 
b- 
This amendment is to conform the paragraph to the corresponding 
Provision of Part 207 (§ 207.4(e) of Regulation G) and to clarify that the 
^°ard did not intend that the two sections should have a different import. 

330 
7. a. Section 220.8 is amended to read as follows: 
§ 220.8 
Supplement. 
(a) Maximum loan value for general accounts. The maximum loan 
value of securities in a general account subject to § 220.3 shall be: 
(1) of a registered non-equity security held in the account on 
March 11, 1968 and continuously thereafter and of a registered equity 
security (except as provided in § 220.3(c) and § 220.8(b) and (c)), 30 per 
cent of the current market value of such securities. 
(2) of an exempted security held in the account on March 11, 1968, 
and continuously thereafter the maximum loan value of the security, as 
determined by the creditor in good faith. 
(b) Maximum loan value for a special bond account. The maximum 
loan value of an exempt security and of a registered non-equity security 
Pursuant to § 220.4(i) shall be the maximum loan value of the security as 
determined by the creditor in good faith. 
(c) Maximum loan value for special convertible debt security 
.account. The maximum loan value of a registered equity security eligible 
f°r a special convertible security account pursuant to § 220.4(j) shall be 
per cent of the current market value of the security. 
(d) Margin required for short sales. The amount to be included 
^ the adjusted debit balance of a general account, pursuant to § 220.3(d)(3), 
as margin required for short sales of securities (other than exempt 
securities) shall be 70 per cent of the current market value of each such 
security. 

3 3 1 
- 9 -
Retention requirement. In the case of an account which 
would have an excess of the adjusted debit balance of the account over the 
maximum loan value of the securities in the account following a withdrawal 
of cash or securities from the account, pursuant to § 220.3(b)(2), 
(1) The "retention requirement" of an exempted security held 
in the general account on March 11, 1968 and continuously thereafter shall 
be equal to its maximum loan value as determined by the creditor in good 
faith, and the "retention requirement" of a registered non-equity security 
held in such account on March 11, 1968 and continuously thereafter and of 
a registered equity security shall be 70 per cent of the current market 
value of the security. 
(2) In the case of a special bond account subject to 
5 220.4(i), the retention requirement of an exempted security and of a 
registered non-equity security shall be equal to the maximum loan value of 
the security. 
(3) In the case of a special convertible security account 
subject to § 220.4(j) which would have an excess of the adjusted debit 
balance of the account over the maximum loan value of the securities in the 
account following a withdrawal of cash or securities from the account, the 
retention requirement of a security having loan value in the account shall 
b e 70 per cent of the current market value of the security. 
(4) For the purpose of effecting a transfer from a general 
a ccount to a special convertible security account subject to § 220.4(j), 
th 
e retention requirement of a security described in § 220.4(j) shall be 
7 0 Per cent of its current market value. 

(f) 
Securities having no loan value in general account. 
No 
securities other than an exempted security or a registered non-equity 
security held in the account on March 11, 1968 and continuously thereafter, 
and a registered equity security shall have any loan value in a general 
account except that a registered equity security eligible for the special 
convertible security account pursuant to § 220.4(j) shall have loan value 
°nly if held in the account on March 11, 1968 and continuously thereafter. 
b . The changes are the addition of new paragraphs (b) and (e)(2) 
in order to implement the provisions of § 220.4(1), and certain clarifying 
changes in paragraph (e)(1). 
The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
t elating to notice and public participation and to deferred effective dates, 
Ue*"e not followed in connection with these amendments. 
Since the amendments 
a r e designed to clarify other amendments that are to become effective on 
^arch 11, 1968, such procedures would result in delays that would be con-
t rary to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 8th day of March 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
n , • 
• 
• <• 
• 
' ' 
• 
(Signed) 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
seal 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. G] 
PART 207 - CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, 
OR DEALERS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR 
CARRYING REGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES 
Technical Amendments 
By document appearing in the Federal Register of February 8, 
1968 (33 F.R. 2691) the Board of Governors announced the adoption of a 
new Part 207, effective March 11, 1968. By document appearing in the 
Federal Register of March 7, 1968, (33 F.R. 4249) the effective date of 
5 207.4(f) was deferred to April 10, 1968. Certain technical amendments 
h a V e now been adopted by the Board, all effective March 11, 1968. Those 
fur. i 
amendments and the reasons therefor are as follows: 
l.a. Section 207.1(d)(1) and (4) is amended to read as follows: 
5 2
0
7
a 
General rule. 
* * * 
(d) Credit on convertible debt securities. 
(1) A lender may extend 
C r e d i t for the purpose specified in paragraph (c) of this section on 
c°Uateral consisting of any debt security convertible into a registered 
,, 
. ' 
. i „ 
J > :, I • 
e(]uity security or any debt security carrying a warrant or right to sub-
S cribe to or purchase such a registered equity security (such a convertible 
d e b t security is sometimes referred to herein as a "convertible security"). 
11, 
•k -k i< 
3 5 3 
Item No. 3 
3/8/68 

354 
- 2 -
or dealers subject to Part 220 of this Chapter (Regulation T). In 
determining whether or not an extension of credit is for the purpose 
specified in § 221.1 or for any of the purposes specified in § 221.2 
the bank may rely on the statement executed by the customer if accepted 
in good faith. To accept the customer's statement in good faith, the 
officer must (1) be alert to the circumstances surrounding the credit 
and (2) if he has any information which would cause a prudent man not 
to accept the statement without inquiry, have investigated and be satis-
fied that the customer's statement is truthful. 
"ft 
-fc 
b. The purpose of this change is to eliminate certain admin-
istrative problems created by the form in which the purpose statement, 
pursuant to 5 221.3(a), would otherwise have to be furnished. 
2.a. Section 221.3(c) is amended to read as follows: 
5 221.3 Miscellaneous provisions. 
•it ->V "ft 
(c) Indirectly secured. The term "indirectly secured" includes 
any arrangement with the customer under which the customer's right or 
ability to sell, pledge, or otherwise dispose of stock owned by the cus-
tomer is in any way restricted so long as the credit remains outstanding, 
°r under which the exercise of such right^ whether by written agreement or 
otherwise, is cause for acceleration of the maturity of the credit: 
Pro-
d d e d . That the foregoing shall not apply (1) if such restriction arises 
solely by virtue of an arrangement with the customer which pertains gener-
ally to the customer's assets unless a substantial part of such assets 

consists of stock, or (2) if the bank in good faith has not relied upon 
such stock as collateral in the extension or maintenance of the particular 
credit: And provided further, That the foregoing shall not apply to stock 
held by the bank only in the capacity of custodian, depositary, or trustee, 
or under similar circumstances, if the bank in good faith has not relied 
upon such stock as collateral in the extension or maintenance of the parti-
cular credit. 
it 
it it 
b. The purpose of the change is to eliminate certain redundancies 
and to clarify that the section does not apply to certain routine negative 
c°venants in loan agreements. 
3.a. Section 221.3 (t)(1) and (4) are amended to read as follows: 
^ 221.3 Miscellaneous provisions. 
* 
it it 
(t) Credit on convertible debt securities. 
(1) A bank may extend 
credit for the purpose specified in § 221.1 on collateral consisting of 
debt security convertible into a stock registered on a national secu-
rities exchange or any debt security carrying a warrant or right to sub-
S cribe to or purchase a stock so registered (such a debt security is 
sometimes referred to herein as a "convertible security"). 
, 
. 
it it it 
(4) In the event that any stock is substituted for a convertible 
S Gcurity held as collateral for a credit extended under this paragraph, the 
st°ck and any credit extended on it in compliance with this Part shall 
hereupon be treated as subject to § 221.1 and the credit extended under 

this paragraph shall be reduced by an amount equal to the maximum loan 
value of the security withdrawn. 
k 
k 
k 
b. The purpose of the change in paragraph (1) is to clarify 
that the special loan value provided for credit extended under this 
paragraph is available only for collateral consisting of convertible 
debt securities, and that preferred stocks, whether or not registered 
on a national securities exchange,which are convertible into registered 
stocks, have the same loan value as such registered stocks. The purpose 
of the change in paragraph (4) is to eliminate surplusage. 
4.a. Section 221.4(b) and (c) is amended to read as follows: 
5 221.4 
Supplement. 
k 
k 
k 
(b) Maximum loan value of convertible debt securities subject 
£o 5 221.3(t). For the purpose of § 221.3(t), the maximum loan value of 
any security against which credit is extended pursuant to § 221.3(t) shall 
be 50 per cent of its current market value, as determined by any reasonable 
method. 
(c) Retention requirement. For the purpose of § 221.1, in the 
ease of a loan which would exceed the maximum loan value of the collateral 
following a withdrawal of collateral, the "retention requirement" of a stock, 
whether or not registered on a national securities exchange, and of a con-
vertible debt security subject to 5 221.3(t), shall be 70 per cent of its 
current market value, as determined by any reasonable method. 

b. The changes are solely to conform the name of the type of 
loan throughout the regulation. 
The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
relating to notice and public participation and to deferred effective dates, 
were not followed in connection with these amendments. Since the amendments 
are designed to clarify other amendments that are to become effective on 
March 11, 1963, such procedures would result in delays that would be 
contrary to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
* 
i'c 
Dated at Uashington, D. C., this 8th day of Ilarch, 196 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
0. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 
SEAL 

ssy** 
'•f^ALRE^' 
F E D E R A L ^ 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
Item No. 4 
3/8/68 
For immediate release 
March 8, 1968. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today the adoption of technical amendments to its regu-
lations governing the use of credit in stock market transactions. 
These regulations are Regulation T, applying to brokers and 
dealers, Regulation U, applying to banks, and Regulation G, covering 
securities loans by others. All of the amendments are technical 
in nature and designed to clarify certain changes in the margin 
regulations announced by the Board on February 1, 1968, to become 
effective on March 11, 1968. 
The amendments, which also become effective March 11, 
1968, will: 
1. Clarify that the 50 per cent margin requirements 
applicable to convertible securities was intended to apply only to 
convertible debt securities and not to preferred stocks. 
2. Sharpen the definition of the term "indirectly 
secured" in Regulations U and G to make it clear that securities 
owned by a borrower will not be treated as collateral for a loan 
under this section merely because a nagative covenant (e.g., re-
strictions on sale or pledge of assets without the consent of the 
lender) has been included in the loan agreement, so long as the 
bank or other lender has in good faith not relied on the securities 
In making the loan. As previously published, the definition of 

this term could have been interpreted as including routine 
negative covenant arrangements common in financial transactions. 
This change will also eliminate certain technical and adminis-
trative difficulties which would otherwise arise in completing 
the statement as to the purpose of the loan which is required 
under Regulations U and G. 
3. Eliminate the requirement that banks obtain "purpose 
statements" in connection with routine transactions involving loaca 
to brokers and dealers, who are subject to supervision and control 
under other governmental regulations and certain loans that are 
exempt from regulation, regardless of purpose. 
A . Clarify the method by which short sales of convertible 
bonds are to be carried out under Regulation T. 
The Board took no action today on a proposed amendment to 
Regulation U that would, if adopted, exempt from margin regulation 
loans by banks to broker/dealer firms to finance their market-
making activities in convertible bonds. When this proposed amend-
ment was announced on February I, firms that believed they might be 
eligible for such an exemption were invited to file, as promptly 
as possible, reports on their activities in this regard. The 
Board has not yet received sufficient data to form a basis for a 
determination as to whether such an exemption is justified and 
action has been deferred pending receipt and analysis of additional 
reports. 
The text of the amendments will be published in the Pederal 
Register and will be available at the Federal Reserve Board and the 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
- 0 -

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 5 
• F T H E 
3/8/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 8, 1968. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 31, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for Morgan Guaranty International Finance 
Corporation ("MGIFC") to participate, as a member of an underwriting 
group headed by Credito Bursatil, S.A., a Mexican corporation, and 
International Finance Corporation, Washington, D. C., in the under-
writing of additional common shares of Compania Fundidora de Fierro 
y Acero de Monterrey S.A. ("CFFAM"), a Mexican corporation, with a 
par value of Mexican Pesos 100 per share. It is understood that MGIFC 
will agree to purchase up to the Mexican Peso equivalent of US$1,684,800 
(approximately Mexican Pesos 21,060,000) of such common stock as is 
not subscribed to by the shareholders. Accordingly, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for MGIFC to purchase and hold up to approx-
imately 180,000 shares of stock of CFFAM at a cost of approximately 
US$1,684,800, provided such stock is acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The Board also approves the purchase and holding of the 
shares of CFFAM within the terms of the above consent in excess of 
10 per cent of MGIFC's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of your Corporation, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of 
New York and Morgan Guaranty International Banking Corporation, will 
not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guide 
limes established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 6 
• F T H E 
3 / 8 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
^ 
•* 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
RES*V 
March 11, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear M r . Galusha: 
As requested in your letter of February 23, 1968, the Board 
of Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for 
the respective grades of the employees' salary structure at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and Helena Branch, effective immediately: 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
2 
$ 3,350 
$ 4,050 
3 
3,400 
4,400 
4 
3,650 
4,850 
5 
4,000 
5,400 
6 
4,500 
6,000 
7 
5,100 
6,800 
8 
5,700 
7,600 
9 
6,350 
8,550 
10 
7,100 
9,500 
11 
7,850 
10,550 
12 
8,700 
11,700 
13 
9,600 
12,900 
14 
10,600 
14,200 
15 
11,650 
15,650 
16 
12,800 
17,200 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees with-
in the limits specified for the grades in which their respective posi-
tions are classified. All employees whose salaries are below the minimum 
°f their grades as a result of this structure increase should be brought 
within appropriate ranges by July 1, 1968, the date of the next review 
°f employees' salaries. This is in accordance with your Bank's request. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
