Minutes for 
March 4, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Ma isel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

rr/i 
1 /.'; 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 4, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. Unanimous approval was given to the appli-
cation of The Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire 
shares of Farmers State Bank, Beaver Dam, Wisconsin, and the issuance of 
, 
; 
, 
. 
i - 
. . . . . ' . , 
• 
• 
.
.
.
.
. 
an order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Unanimous approval was given to the application of First Union, 
Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of Rolla State Bank, 
Rolla, 
Missouri, and the issuance of an order was authorized. A copy of 
the document, as issued, is attached as Item No. 2. 

572 
3/4/71 
-2-
First National City Overseas. Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, granting consent to continue 
to hold stock of 
Credivit, S.A., Namur, Belgium, notwithstanding the latter's holding 
of shares of Grac, S.A., Brussels, Belgium. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
First State Bank. Mr. O'Connell reported that a request had 
been received from the Department of Justice for a Dallas Reserve Bank 
examiner to testify before the Federal Grand Jury on Monday, March 8, 
in connection with a case involving an apparent statutory violation by 
First State Bank, Odessa, Texas. The violation (a loan of funds to an 
individual for a political campaign) had been discovered during a routine 
examination of First State Bank. 
Mr. O'Connell recommended (1) that the examiner be authorized to 
testify as requested and (2) that any subsequent request from the Depart-
ment of Justice for access to pertinent portions of the examination report 
be granted subject to appropriate controls. 
Following discussion, during which Chairman Burns expressed the 
view that requests of this kind might well be handled in the future by 
the General Counsel under an appropriate delegation of authority, 
Mr. O'Connell's recommendations were approved unanimously. 
Regulation Z. Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting on 
February 25, 1971, clarification had been sought of a request from the 

rrnvo 
O r a 
3/4/71 
-3-
trial judge for the Board's position on a question regarding a provision 
of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, at issue in litigation involving 
Mobil Oil Company. It now appeared that the judge would like to have 
a representative of the Board (along with a representative of the Federal 
Trade Commission) in court on Tuesday, March 9, to clarify the issues, 
following which the judge would request a statement from the Board. On 
the basis of discussion with the Department of Justice and counsel for 
the litigants, Mr. Solomon recommended that in lieu of having a Board 
representative appear in court on Tuesday, opposing counsel be authorized 
to advise the court that the Board would file a memorandum or brief as 
might be necessary within 30 days. 
Following discussion, Mr. Solomon's recommendation was approved 
unanimously. 
Annex building. Governor Sherrill reported that a check had 
indicated that there apparently was no affiliation between any Federal 
Reserve Bank or branch director and the firm to which it was recommended 
that the contract for construction of the Board's annex building be 
awarded. Question in this regard had been raised at the meeting on 
February 25, 1971. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. 
3/4/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
THE MARINE CORPORATION,
 
1 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
 
1 
f
or approval of acquisition of 90 per
 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of
 
1 
Farmers State Bank, Beaver Dam, Wisconsin.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1 8
42(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of The Marine Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 90 per cent or 
m
°re of the voting shares of Farmers State Bank, Beaver Dam, Wisconsin 
("Farmers Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
b i t t e n notice of receipt of the application to the Wisconsin 

5 7 5 
- 2 -
Commissioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner responded that his office had no objection to approval 
of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 16, 1971 (36 Federal Register 809), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and vieus with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a
ll those received have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
°f the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the third largest banking organization in 
Wisconsin by virtue of its control of 14 banks with aggregate deposits 
approximately $563 million, representing 6 e 5 per cent of all deposits 
commercial banks in the State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 
^970, adjusted to reflect holding company acquisitions approved by the 
Board through January 31, 1971.) Upon acquisition of Farmers Bank 
($19 million of deposits), Applicant would increase its share of 

57G 
- 3 -
5tate-wide deposits to 6.7 per cent, making it the second largest 
banking organization in the State. 
On the basis of deposits, Farmers Bank is the smallest 
of the three comparable-sized banks in Beaver Dam and, with about 
24 per cent of market deposits, third in size among the eight banks 
located in the relevant market, defined as approximately the western 
Portion of Dodge County (except Uaupun). 
Applicant's two subsidiary banks located closest to Farmers 
Bank are, respectively, 36 miles east and 40 miles southwest of 
Farmers Bank and are not in Dodge County. It appears that there is 
n o
 significant competition between Farmers Bank and either of these 
two banks or any of Applicant's other subsidiary banks, and none is 
likely to develop in the future because of the distances involved, 
the number of other banks located in the intervening areas, and the 
restrictive provisions of Wisconsin law on branch banking. There 
appears to be little likelihood that Applicant would establish a 
novo office in the area served by Farmers Bank. Thus, it appears 
fc
hat consummation of Applicant's proposal would not eliminate sig-
n i
ficant ejcisting competition nor foreclose potential competition, 
^filiation with Applicant may enable Farmers Bank to compete more 
a
8gressively with the two larger banks in the market without having 
any adverse effect on the smaller banks located there. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 

- 2 -
5 7 7 
effect on competition in any relevant area. The financial and 
managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, 
and Farmers Bank are regarded as consistent with approval of the 
application. Applicant proposes to assist in providing customers of 
Farmers Bank with a number of new, expanded, and improved services 
with respect to loans, fiduciary services, and computer facilities. 
Thus considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved lend some support to approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in 
the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such time is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 4 , 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

5 7 8 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C , 
Item No. 2 
3/4/71 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST UNION, INCORPORATED, 
St, Louis, Missouri, 
for approval of the acquisition of 80 
per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Rolla State Bank, Rolla, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Union, Incorporated, 
St. Louis, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of Rolla State Bank, Rolla, Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Finance of the State of Missouri and requested his views and recommen-
dation. The Commissioner advised that his office had no objection to 
approval of the application. 

-2-
5 7 9 
Notice of receipt of the application Was published in the 
Federal Register on January 6, 1971 (36 Federal Register 189), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
fc
he factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest banking organization and 
third largest bank holding company in Missouri, has four subsidiary 
hanks with aggregate deposits of $738.5 million, representing 7.3 
Per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All 
hanking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding 
company acquisitions and formations approved by the Board to date.) 
Consummation of the proposed acqusition would increase Applicant's 
c
°ntrol to 7.4 per cent of statewide deposits. 
Bank ($14.5 million of deposits) is the largest of three 
hanks i n Rolla and the largest of five banks in Phelps County, which 

-3 
58G 
approximates the relevant banking market. The Rolla competitors of 
Bank have experienced good growth and demonstrated competitive viability 
and aggressiveness; and it appears that Bank does not dominate the 
market. Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank is located more than 
1°0 miles from Rolla, and none of Applicant's subsidiaries appears to 
compete with Bank to any significant extent. In the light of the facts 
before the Board, notably the distances between Applicant's present 
subsidiaries and Bank and Missouri's restrictive branching laws, it 
seems unlikely that consummation of the proposal herein would foreclose 
any significant potential competition. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect 
competition in any relevant area. Considerations relating to financial 
a n
d managerial resources and prospects, as they relate to Applicant, 
its subsidiaries, and Bank, are regarded as satisfactory and con-
sistent with approval of the application. Applicant proposes to 
assist Bank in providing additional consumer and business loans, trust 
services, and specialized mortgage financing. Such additional services 
should contribute to the economic growth of the community. Considerations 
Elating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
^fcnd some weight in support of approval. It is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 

581 
-2-
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the Board
f
s findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period shall be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 4, 1971. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and 
Maisel. 
. >>•
;
 • -' . t 
.
 :
 •
 ;
 •• 
(Signed) Kcnne'th A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

582 
B O A R D CDF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
3/4/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 4, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 8, 1971, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") 
to continue to hold a majority of the shares of Credivit, S.A., 
Namur, Belgium, notwithstanding Credivit
f
s holding of approximately 
100 per cent of the shares of Grac, S.A., Brussels, Belgium. 
The holding of shares of Grac by Credivit is subject to 
• 
• 1 3 J _ 
13 ^ /-I ' 1 flh 
the same conditions and suspensions prescribed in the Board's letter 
of March 5, 1970, granting consent to the purchase of shares of 
Credivit by FNCOIC. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
