Minutes for 
May 14, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Daane 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Sherrill 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Note: No changes in draft minutes. 

1 1 9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, May 14, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherri11 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Hobbs and Mrs. Semia of the Office of the 
Secretary 
The usual weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
V°pies of the statistical materials prepared for the purpose of today's 
review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the 
individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon reported on legislative developments, after which, 
Wlth staff attendance limited, Messrs. Stoffels and Treadway of the 
^Search Division commented on recent margin credit and stock market 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1 1 9 4 
5/14/71 
-2-
developments, basing their presentation in part on a memorandum dated 
May 13, 1971, a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
Officers and staff having responsibilities with respect to the 
following matters then entered the room. 
Consent calendar. The Board authorized the issuance of orders 
and statements reflecting approval, on April 29, 1971, in each case, of 
the following holding company applications: 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to 
acquire shares of The Willard Bank, Willard, Missouri 
(copies of order and statement attached under Item No. 1, 
along with Governor Robertson's dissenting statement); 
and 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire 
shares of The First National Bank of Longview, Longview, 
Texas (copies of order and statement attached under 
Item No. 2, along with Governor Robertson's statement 
concurring in part and dissenting in part; letter sent 
to Southwest Bancshares is attached as Item No. 3.). 
Testimony on H.R. 8181. Governors Robertson and Brimmer were 
scheduled to testify on May 19 before the Subcommittee on International 
Trade of the House Banking and Currency Committee regarding H. R. 8181, 
the "Export Expansion Finance Act of 1971." 
Draft statements had been distributed, and they were discussed 
with a view to developing general agreement on the approach to questions 
0l- substance. It was understood that today's discussion would be taken 
into account in preparing revised drafts for the Board's consideration. 
All staff members except Mr. Holland and Mr. Slocum withdrew at 
this point. 

1 1 9 5 
5/14/71 
-3-
Governor Sherrill reported that Mr. John Singleton, Associate 
Director of the Division of Data Processing, had resigned to accept 
employment with a commercial bank. After reviewing numerous possibil-
ities for Mr. Singleton's successor, Mr. Slocum, Director of the Division 
of Data Process 
ing, was recommending the appointment of Charles L. Hampton 
as Associate Director of the Division at an annual salary of $33,000, 
effective upon his reporting for duty, which was tentatively scheduled 
on or about June 1, 1971. Governor Sherrill outlined Mr. Hampton's 
qualifications and indicated he concurred in the recommendation of 
Mr. Slocum. The Board approved the recommendation, which included 
coverage of certain expenses incident to Mr. Hampton's moving from 
California to the Washington, D. C., area, as outlined in a memorandum 
from the Division of Data Processing dated May 11, 1971. 
; 
Ot 
i * . -U .'J 
-..'M. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Is: 

1 1 9 6 
Item No. 1 
5/14/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., 
1 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
1 
approval of acquisition of more 
1 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares 
' 
°f The Willard Bank, Willard, Missouri, 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more than 80 per cent 
of the voting shares of The Uillard Bank, Willard, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Vritten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
finance of the State of Missouri, and requested his views and 
tep 
c°mmendation. The Commissioner indicated that he had no objection 
to aPproval of the application. 

1 1 9 7 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 13, 1971 (36 Federal Register 4917), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a H those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or 
ky the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, Hay 14, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
• 
. 
,}, 
... 
• 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1 1 9 8 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE WILLARD BANK, WILLARD, MISSOURI 
STATEMENT 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U,S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of more 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares of The Willard Bank, Willard, 
Missouri ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendc-tions of supervisory authority, - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
*as gtven to the Commissioner of Finance of the State of Missouri, and 
**ts views and recommendation were requested. The Commissioner indicated 
that he had no objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Pa*t of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquiaition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 

2-
1 1 9 9 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served„ In each case the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to) be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The ten 
largest banking organizations in Missouri, seven of which are 
registered bank holding companies, control approximately 42 per 
1/ 
cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State. 
Applicant, 
the second largest bank holding company and the second largest 
inking organization in the State, controls 17 subsidiary banks 
aggregate deposits of $792 million, representing 7.8 per 
cent of the deposits held by all commercial banks in the State. 
acquisition of Bank ($1.5 million deposits), Applicant's 
Position in relation to the State's other banking organizations 
atld holding companies would remain unchanged and its share of 
dePosits in the State would be increased only insignificantly. 
All 
banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
ank holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
ard through March 31, 1971. 

2U 
1 2 0 0 
Bank, located in Willard, ten miles northwest of downtown 
Springfield, serves a 170 square mile area of northwest Greene County, 
It is the smaller of the two banks in its service area and, with .5 
Per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the county, is the tenth 
largest of the 12 Greene County banks. 
The city of Uillard serves as a bedroom community to Spring-
field, with approximately 90 per cent of the Willard labor force 
commuting to Springfield, The population of the city has grown from 
357 in 1960 to just over 1,000 in 1970, and it is estimated that the 
1980 population will be close to 6,000. 
Applicant's subsidiary located closest to Bank, the Citizens 
of Springfield, also operates in Greene County. With 26 per 
cent of the deposits, Citizens Bank is the second largest bank in 
the county. There is some negligible existing competition between 
B&nk and Citizens Bank which would be eliminated by the consummation 
this proposal* However the size of Bank and the conservative 
derating policies of its management appear to preclude it from 
bein8 a significant, competitor., An indication of this ia the fact 
Bank was chartered in 1966 and since then its deposits have 
slowly, even though the area has experienced substantial growth, 
light of the circumstances described above and the facts of record, 
Board views Applicant's acquisition of Bank as a somewhat unusual 
case. 

-2-
1 2 0 1 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposal would not result in a monopoly or be 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any part of the United States and would 
not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to 
create a monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects, -
^he financial condition of Applicant is regarded as satisfactory, 
its management as competent, and its prospects as favorable. The 
same conclusions apply to Applicant's subsidiaries. 
Bank is in good financial condition and its prospects 
regarded as favorable. The present management of Bank is re-
garded as satisfactory; however, affiliation with Applicant should 
Provide Bank with greater management depth and should assist Bank 
in meeting a management succession problem. 
These considerations are consistent with, and provide some 
Weight in favor of, approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
jor banking needs of the residents of Bank's service area appear 
be adequately served at the present time by existing institutions. 
Applicant proposes to establish new services at Bank, in-
*uding estate planning and trust services, and to broaden Bank's 
le 
K*'J« 
Ly growing Willard area. These additional services should 
nc*ing policies in order to better meet the expanding needs of the 
rapi<U, 
Militate the economic development of the area. 

Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
of the communities involved lend weight in support of approval of 
« 
the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the 
relevant facts contained in the record, and in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board1s 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
t 
.
.
. 
_ 
i 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
Way 14 , 1971. 

1 2 0 3 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
Although the majority has attempted to cushion the 
Precedential impact of its decision by characterizing its approval 
°f the application as "a somewhat unusual case," I disagree with 
Such a characterization, and I would deny the application. Applicant's 
acquisition of The Willard Bank is clearly anticompetitive, and 
since there are no offsetting benefits to the communities which 
clearly outweigh those anticompetitive effects, the mandate of 
the Bank Holding Company Act requires denial of the application, 
Commerce Bancshares, with its seventeen subsidiary banks, 
is already represented in every major banking market in the State 
of Missouri, The proposal herein represents an overt effort by 
Commerce to solidify its position in one of those markets, Greene 
• 
county, by acquiring one of its competitors, The Willard Bank, 
Xh at one of Applicant's subsidiaries, Citizens Bank of Springfield, 
atl(i The Willard Bank are actual competitors is not in dispute; yet 
th 
e majority has apparently determined that the elimination of competition 
kotween the two banks is not so significant so as to require denial 
Of f.i 
A 
application. To me, such a determination ignores the commercial 
^ H t i e s 
which are present in this case. 
Citizens Bank of Springfield and The Willard Bank both 
Perate in the same market. Ninety per cent of Willard's work 
commutes to Springfield for employment. There is substantial 
. ; . 

1204 
-5-
deposit and loan overlap between the two banks. In fact, the amount 
of loans and deposits which Citizens Bank derives from The Willard 
Bank's service area greatly exceeds the total loans and total deposits 
held by The Willard Bank. It is apparent that the effects of the 
consummation of Applicant's proposal will be an elimination of this 
meaningful competition between Citizens Bank and tho Willard Bank and the 
elimination of an alternative source of banking services for these 
residents of Willard who commute to Springfield. In light of the 
*arge number of commuters, such a prospect is clearly anticompetitive. 
In addition to the above anticompetitive effects of the 
Proposal, the majority has chosen to ignore the adverse effects of 
Applicant's 
proposal on potential competition. While admitting that 
the Uiliard service area has enjoyed rapid population expansion and 
^at the prospects for future development are good, the majority has 
failed to recognize that its action today will foreclose the develop-
ment of The Willard Bank as an effective competitor in the Greene 
c°unty banking market. The Board's action today appears to authorize 
bank holding companies to intensify their control of the banking 
Markets in which they are already represented simply by acquiring 
the smaller banks in those markets., To me, such afifcictft' is p n ^ ^ a n t M 
and c°ntrary tQ) tkm pyfgoictg of t\m Mnfe Holdtag 
Mti. 
The majority finds that the additional services to be 
^ovided by The Willard Bank as an affiliate of Commerce lend weight 
favor of approval of the application. However, the record does 

not disclose that there is an actual need for such additional 
services. Trust services are easily available to the residents 
°f Willard through the nearby Springfield banks, and it appears 
that The Willard Bank is fully capable of handling the loan demands 
which arise in its service area. Consequently, since there is no 
showing of benefits to the communities involved which outweigh 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposal herein, the application 
should be denied. 
M ay 14, 1971 

12Q5A 
Item No. 2 
5/14/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC., 
Houston, Texas, 
approval of acquisition of more 
than 51 per cent of the voting shares 
The First National Bank of Longview, 
L°ngview, Texas. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 UoS.C. 
1842 (a) (3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Southwest Bancshares, Inc., 
Huston, Texas, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of more than 51 per SAA£ 
Votln6 shares of the First National Bank of Longview, Longview, 
*as. Applicant, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, presently 
c°ntrolsi 22.1 pes cent of the voting shares of The First National 
ank of Longview. 

-2 
1 2 0 6 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on February 11, 1971 (36 Federal Register 2882), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
aPplication was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has 
exPired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Sard's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not bo 
Cot*summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date 
this Order,, unless such time> shall be extended for good cause 
^ the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant 
• <L- 
1 " -I 
delegated authority, and provided further that (c) Applicant 
div 
Q s t itself of its interest in voting shares of The Kilgore 
Hatio 
or*al Bank, Kilgore, Texas, within two years of the date of 
tht" Order. 

-3-
By order of the Board of Governors, May 14, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
r, 
Concurring in part and dissenting in part: Governor 
Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L.Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
[SEAL] 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC., HOUSTON, TEXAS, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF LONGVIEW, LONGVIEW, TEXAS 
STATEMENT 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of more than 51 per cent of the voting shares of The 
rst National Bank of Longview, Longview, Texas ("Longview Bank"). 
applicant, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, presently controls 
22•! per cent of the voting shares of Longview Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. 
As 
r equired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
Commended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 

1 2 0 9 
- 2 -
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
he substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
0 r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
Probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board is 
tGquired to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
kanks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. Applicant 
c°ntrols two banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $602 
m i lUon, representing 2.6 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
in Texas, and is the fifth largest banking organization in the State."^ 
addition, Applicant controls more than 14 per cent (but less than 
25 
p e r cent) of the voting shares of each of six other Texas banks, 
^eluding Longview Bank. 
Longview Bank ($32 million of deposits) is the second 
ar8eSt of five banks in Longview and the second largest of the 
a n k s in the relevant market, which is defined as approximately 
Co 
banking data are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding 
Pany acquisitions approved through February 28, 1971. 

-5-
1 2 1 0 
Gregg County and portions of Harrison and Rusk Counties. Longview 
Bank controls 13.7 per cent of the deposits in the market. Applicant's 
two subsidiaries are located in the Houston area, more than 200 miles 
from Longview, Because of the distance between Houston and Longview, 
the number of barks in the intervening area, the prohibition against 
branch banking in Texas, and other relevant considerations, Longview 
Rank is not regarded as a competitor of either of Applicant's 
subsidiaries, nor is it likely to become such in the future. There 
no indication in the record that the acquisition of Longview Bank 
ky Applicant would adversely affect other banks in the relevant 
market, 
Applicant, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, controls 
per cent of the voting shares of The Kilgore National Bank, 
KUgore, T e x a s ("Kiigore Bank"), located approximately 12 miles 
s°uthwest of Longview Bank. Kilgore Bank competes in the same 
^rket with Longview Bank and ranks as the seventh largest bank in 
the 
market on the basis of its control of 5.9 per cent of market 
d ePosit s. 
Analysis of Applicant's relationships with Kilgore Bank 
lamination into Applicant's actual or potential influence over 
the 
Policies or management of Kilgore Bank indicate that consummation 
of t, 
n e proposal would have anticompetitive effects. Applicant is 
the l 
largest shareholder of Kilgore Bank. In addition, Applicant, 
thr °u8h its wholly-owned subsidiary, is party to an agreement with 

-5-
1 2 1 1 
other shareholders of Kilgore Bank. The shareholders joining in 
the agreement control more than 50 per cent of the voting shares 
of Kilgore Bank and have provided in the agreement for all their 
shares to be voted as a unit. Under the terms of the agreement, 
Applicant has the right to be consulted before policy decisions 
°f Kilgore Bank are made, the right to be fully informed about 
all matters concerning the bank, the right of unrestricted access 
to all books and records of the bank, and other significant rights. 
The Board has not made a determination that Applicant "controls" 
Kilgore Bank within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act 
1956, and it considers such a determination unnecessary in the 
circumstances. The position that Applicant enjoys with respect 
^ Kilgo 
re Bank compels the conclusion that consummation of the 
Proposal could result in a stifling of competition between Longview 
fiank and Kilgore Bank. 
The anticompetitive dangers raised by the proposal could 
be eliminated if Applicant divested itself of its interest in 
^Igore Bank. The Board's Order approving the proposal is conditioned 
uP°n such divestiture. On that basis, and after careful consideration 
the entire record, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
^oposal would not eliminate existing competition nor foreclose 
Si8nifiCant 
potential competition. Nor would it result in a monopoly 
110r be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
^ttopoiigg the business of banking in any area, and would not substan-
tially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor restrain 
rade in any section of the country. 

-5-
1 2 1 2 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, 
its subsidiaries, and Longviex? Bank are regarded as satisfactory. 
Therefore, considerations regarding the banking factors are consis-
tent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. There 
is no indication in the record of significant benefits to residents 
o f the Houston area that would flow from consummation of the proposal. 
Affiliation 
with Applicant would enable Longview Bank to offer larger 
lending limits through loan participations and to initiate, improve 
expand other services, particularly international and trust services. 
Th 
refore, considerations regarding the convenience and needs of (the 
immunities involved are consistent with approval of the application 
but lend little weight thereto. 
Summary and conclusions. On the basis of all the relevant 
fa°ts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
r t h in section 3(c) of thft Act^ it is the Bo&cdfs judgment tefeflt 
the Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the aPplication should be approved, 
W , 1971 

1 2 1 3 
STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON CONCURRING IN 
PART AND DISSENTING IN PART 
I concur with the other members of the Board voting on . 
this action that this application warrants approval provided that 
Applicant divest itself of its interest in Kilgore Bank. However, 
1 do not agree that Applicant should be given up to two years to 
effect the divestiture as provided in the Board's Order. 
The Board finds that Applicant's acquisition of a 
controlling interest in Longview Bank while it continues to retain 
a substantial interest in Kilgore Bank would have an adverse effect 
° n competition. In such circumstances, I believe that divestiture 
should be required as a condition precedent to consummation of the 
Proposal. Adoption of a policy of allowing divestiture of a competing 
^anlc within a two-year period (or other extended period of time) 
*ndicates a willingness of the Board to disregard anticompetitive 
g C f 
Gcts of a transaction for a significant period of time. 
Whenever the Board is considering an appropriate date 
divestiture, it must, of course, weigh the potential hardship 
to 
a n Applicant caused by divestiture at an early date against 
risks of adverse effects on competition. I believe that, in 
the 
Present case, concern about the competitive factors should 
Ptev»ii 
By virtue of an agreement with other shareholders of 
Kiu 
Bank, Applicant enjoys unrestricted access to inside 
f°rmation concerning Kilgore Bank and, in addition, has the 
8 power, as member of the control group, to take maximum 
antage of that information. By gaining control of Longview Bank, 

-2-
1 2 1 4 
Applicant would be able to utilize its power in a manner detrimental 
to competition between Kilgore Bank and Longview Bank. The effects of 
such an anticompetitive situation could linger well beyond two years. 
In my judgment, the anticompetitive considerations are not 
outweighed by any other considerations. In view of our conclusion 
that considerations regarding the convenience and needs of the commu-
nities involved lend little weight to approval of the application, 
the Longview community will not suffer if this transaction is not 
consummated at the earliest possible date. Nor is it likely that 
Applicant would suffer significant hardship if we required it to 
divest itself of its interest in Kilgore Bank prior to consummation 
of the proposal. The restricted nature of Applicant's Kilgore Bank 
stock, encumbered as it is with the shareholder agreement, means 
^at only a limited market for the stock exists now and that the 
situation would be unaffected in the next two years. Therefore, I 
do not see what the two-year period is intended to accomplish. If 
tlh 
e r e is a possible economic loss that Applicant would suffer by a 
^quirement o f divestiture prior to consummation of the proposal, 
* c°nsider it not significant relative to the serious and likely 
Averse effects on competition that could result if we permit 
APpli 
"V 
years. 
•cant to own substantial interests in two competing banks for 
tVo 
For the reasons stated above, I would require Applicant 
divest itself of its interest in Kilgore Bank prior to consumma-
°n of the proposal. 
S 
1971 

121 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
I t e m 
No . 3 
..-oVcoV,V. 
D F T H E 
5/14/71 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
''f^LRt^ 
May 14, 1971 
AIR-MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc 
910 Travis Street 
Houston, Texas 
77001 
Gentlemen: 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of Southwest Bancshares, Inc. for permission 
to acquire more than 51 per cent of the voting shares of The First 
National Bank of Longview, Longview, Texas. 
Enclosed is the Board's Order, together with the accompanying 
Statement and the press release on this action. Also enclosed is a 
Statement of Governor Robertson concurring in part and dissenting in 
part. 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the acquisition herein approved 
is to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be 
given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
Your attention is directed to the provision in the Board's 
Order that the transaction may be consummated only upon the condition 
that Applicant divest itself of its interest in voting shares of The 
Kilgore National Bank, Kilg ore, Texas, within two years of the date 
of the Board's Order. The two-year period has been granted to allow 
adequate time to effect a sale of the shares at a fair price. However, 
it is expected that Applicant will make reasonable attempts to dispose 
°f the shares at as early a date as possible. The Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Dallas should be notified promptly of the divestiture. In any 
event, Applicant should report to the Reserve Bank every six months 
concerning its efforts to effect divestiture. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
End osures 
