iii^ 
FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
June 18, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 18, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
First Banc Group of Ohio. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated June 16, 1970, and other pertinent 

183 3 
6/18/70 
-2-
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of First 
Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to The Peoples National Bank and Trust Company, 
Dover, Ohio. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
First Wisconsin Bankshares. Drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on May 26, 1970, of the application of 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire 
shares of First West Towne National Bank of Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, 
a proposed new bank, had been distributed, along with a dissenting state-
ment by Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
After discussion, the issuance of the order and statements was 
authorized, it being understood that the majority statement would be 
amended to include a point raised by Governor Mitchell and that an addi-
tion suggested by Governor Maisel would be incorporated in the dissenting 
statement. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under 
Item No. 1. 
Other actions. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

1831 
6/18/70 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to Bankers International Corporation, 
2 
New York, New York, granting consent to the 
acquisition of shares of Bankers Trust Factors 
Limited, London, England, and for the latter 
to issue and have outstanding promissory notes 
with maturities in excess of one year. 
Letter to Security Pacific National Bank, 
3 
Los Angeles, California, granting permis-
sion to organize a corporation under 
section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
to be known as Security Pacific Overseas 
Corp., Los Angeles, California, and trans-
mitting a preliminary permit. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
4 
Philadelphia granting an exception to, 
rather than a revision of, the special 
maximum for Grade 16 of the employees' 
salary structure for the purpose of 
hiring Lyle P. Bickley in the data 
processing area at a salary in excess 
of that special maximum. 
Exemption for Massachusetts. In a memorandum dated June 17, 
1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that the 
application of the State of Massachusetts for exemption from certain 
requirements of the Truth in Lending Act be granted. Rules adopted 
by the Massachusetts Legislature were virtually identical to Regula-
tion Z, Truth in Lending, the only alterations being to specify stricter 
requirements than those imposed by the Federal law. One of those require-
ments, i.e., disclosure of an annual percentage rate in small transactions, 
had been questioned, but the staff concluded that this would not constitute 
grounds for denial of the application. 

1835 
6/18/70 
-4-
Fo1lowing discussion, the State of Massachusetts was granted 
exemption under the Federal Truth in Lending Act, effective July 1, 
1970. Copies of the press release and of the documentation reflecting 
this action, as published in the Federal Register, are attached under 
Item No. 5. 
Mercantile Bankshares Corporation. On May 21, 1970, the 
Board approved, Governors Mitchell and Brimmer dissenting, the appli-
cation of Mercantile Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to 
become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of the 
successors by merger to Mercantile-Safe Deposit and Trust Company, 
Bait imore, (a noninsured State bank), and The Annapolis Banking and 
Trust Company. The noninsured status of the proposed lead bank in 
the holding company structure had been a point of concern, and among 
the alternatives discussed was the possibility of seeking legislation 
to make Federal deposit insurance mandatory for every bank in a holding 
company system. Subsequently, pursuant to an understanding at the Board 
meeting on May 28, 1970, a letter was sent to the Chairman of the Senate 
Committee on Banking and Currency proposing that section 3 of the Bank 
Holding Company Act be so amended. In response to an inquiry, Mercantile-
Safe Deposit and Trust Company then was informed by letter dated June 5 
that no decision with respect to the application of Mercantile Bankshares 
would be announced pending disposition by the Congress of the Board's 
recommendation. 

1H3H 
6/18/70 
-5-
A request had now been received from Mercantile for prompt 
consideration of the application. It was stated that, if the Board 
did not act, the passage of time and changes in the market since the 
proposed affiliation between Mercantile Bankshares Corporation and its 
subsidiary banks had been approved by their boards of directors and 
shareholders might effect a pocket veto. It was further stated that 
if the Congress amended section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act as 
recommended by the Board, action would be taken to insure compliance 
by Mercantile Bankshares Corporation and its subsidiaries with any 
applicable change in the law or regulations; also, that it was the 
intention to continue deposit insurance for any insured bank that 
i t ' i , i; ' 
might become an affiliate of Mercantile Bankshares. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that in the circum-
stances the Board should process the application without further delay. 
He suggested that the Board might proceed in one of two ways: either 
issue an order and statements on the basis of the May 21 action or 
°pen the matter for reconsideration. 
Initial comments indicated some preference for the latter 
Procedure, and in the course of the discussion Governors Mitchell and 
Brimmer made clear that they continued to favor denial of the appli-
cation. However, Governor Maisel expressed dissatisfaction with the 
contemplated procedure. He summarized the established procedures of 
the Board as he understood them, recalled that neither he nor 

1837 
6/18/70 
-6-
Governor Sherrill had participated in, or been informed of, the meeting 
at which it was decided to defer announcement of the decision on the 
application, and pointed out that the original decision had been reached 
by the full Board, including Governor Daane who was absent today. 
For 
these reasons he felt strongly that the Board should proceed to announce 
a decision on the basis of the original vote. 
There followed an exchange 
a 
' 
of views as to the appropriateness of the alternative approaches, at the 
conclusion of which it was agreed that the Board would proceed on the 
basis urged by Governor Maisel. 
.iiiiQu i,: 
Accordingly, it was understood that an order and statements 
reflecting the original vote would be drafted for the Board's consider-
ation. 
44lary i 
V-loan. 
M r . Holland stated that the proposed agreement under 
CiUi f.r 
which the Navy Department would guarantee a V-loan by a consortium of 
banks to the Penn Central Transportation Company had now been received 
i>>r 
, 
f r o m the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and that copies would be dis-
tributed, along with an analysis of the deviations from the standard 
V loan guarantee agreement form. 
It was agreed that the matter would be 
considered later in the day after members of the Board had had an oppor-
tunity to study the documentation. 
Members of the staff other than M r . Holland then withdrew. 

1 8 3 8 
6/18/70 
-7-
Governor Mitchell reported that he had received a call from 
Chairman Higdon of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago who told him 
that the Bank's Board of Directors had decided to offer the Presidency 
of the Bank to one of two men. The directors would be happy with either, 
and they were interested in knowing whether the Board of Governors had 
a preference. 
After discussion of the merits of the two men and the question 
°f their possible availability, the Board agreed that Governor Mitchell 
should inform Chairman Higdon that either of the two persons mentioned 
would be acceptable to the Board. 
Governor Mitchell then said that the question of an appropriate 
salary for the new President had arisen during his conversation with 
Chairman Higdon. Governor Mitchell indicated that he would appreciate 
guidance on the subject from the Board that he might convey to Mr. Higdon 
£ 
r u s e 
i n the course of negotiations. 
After discussion, it was agreed that a salary offer in the 
r ange of $50,000-$60,000 per annum would be appropriate. It was indi-
^ 
that if this range turned out to cause difficulties in the nego-
tiations with the candidate the matter should be brought back to the 
Board for further consideration. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened at 12:30 p.m. with 
G same members of the Board in attendance. The following members of 

1839 
6/18/70 
-8-
the staff were present: Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Hackley, Molony, 
Cardon (Assistant to the Board), Hexter, and Massey (Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations), and Miss Wolcott. 
V-loan. In regard to the proposed V-loan to the Penn Central 
Transportation Company, Mr. Hackley described the points of difference 
between the proposed guarantee agreement and the standard form of 
V-loan guarantee agreement, as discussed in his memorandum of today's 
date, particularly in terms of their effect on protection of the 
interests of the Government. Mr. Hackley pointed out that under the 
statute the Board was required to prescribe the standard form of guar-
antee agreement after consultation with the guaranteeing agencies. In 
the present instance, the Board was not faced with the question of 
changing the standard form for future use; it was merely a matter of 
deviations from the standard form in a particular case. For that 
reason Mr. Hackley recommended that Board action take the form of 
interposing no objection to the proposed deviations. 
Following discussion during which members of the Board clar-
ified certain points, including the fact that all of the guaranteeing 
agencies had been or would be consulted, Mr. Hackley's recommendation 
W a s accepted and the Board interposed no objection to the departures 
fiom the standard form of V-loan guarantee agreement. A copy of the 

6/18/70 
-9-
confirming telegram to the New York Reserve Bank is attached 
Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1841 
Item No. 1 
6/18/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
f o r approval of acquisition of 80 per 
or more of the voting shares of 
Hrst West Towne National flank of 
M a<Uson, Madison, Wisconsin, a 
Proposed new bank. 
'Wy.'Vj 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8 e ction 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 842( a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
0.2 CFR 222.3( a)), an application by First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, 
Mi i 
waukee, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
ah 
a 
Qces of First West Towne National Bank of Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, 
Proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the 
Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
guested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
QPproval of the application. 

1812 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Agister on December 13, 1969 (34 Federal Register 19684), which provided 
a n opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
Aspect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was forwarded 
t 0 the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. The time 
f o r filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
c°nsidered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
P
fovided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the 
G thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than 
t h r e * months after the date of this Order; and that First West Towne National 
a n k of Madison shall be opened for business not later than six months after 
the 
e date of this Order. The latter time periods may be extended for good 
y 
t h e Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to 
l e g a t e d authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 18,1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell 
Daane,and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEain 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1813 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
v «. • 
* 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FIRST WEST TOWNE NATIONAL BANK OF MADISON, 
MADISON, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
( Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board, 
P^suant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, for 
Pri°r approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Fi 
rst West Towne National Bank of Madison, Madison, Wisconsin ("Bank"), 
a Proposed new bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authorities. - As 
r e ^ i r e d by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller 
t h e Currency. The Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
The Commissioner of Banking of the State of Wisconsin also sub-
mitted vl 
lews on the proposal, in which he indicated his disapproval of the 
Proposal. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
G Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
^ o p o l y 
y or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
^opolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 

1844 
- 2 -
Part of the United States, Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially to 
lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
banner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed 
the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In each case,the 
Board is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Wisconsin, all of which are bank holding companies, 
control $3.3 billion of deposits, or 39 per cent of the deposits held by 
all 
1/ 
commercial banks in the State." Applicant, the largest banking 
0r8anization in the State, controls 14 banks with aggregate deposits of 
S i / 
representing 16.4 per cent of total State deposits. Since 
is a proposed new bank, the deposits under Applicant's control would 
n°t be immediately increased by consummation of the proposal. 
Bank's proposed site is located within a new regional shopping 
C e n t e r > which is scheduled to open in the latter part of this year. 
^Proximately 50 retail stores will be housed in the main part of the center, 
data are as of June 30, 1969, and reflect holding company 
mation8 and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

1815 
-2-
a nd will share a common mall which is expected to be fully enclosed. The 
topping center will be located on an 80-acre tract in the western portion 
the City of Madison. Bank's projected service area, as defined by 
Applicant, consists of approximately six square miles, the major portion of 
w h i c h i s within the recently expanded limits of Madison, but which also 
e*tends slightly outside the western corporate limits. 
The Madison Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA") is 
Extensive with Dane County, which has a population of 277,000. The area 
18 
erved by 32 banking organizations, of which Applicant is the largest. 
Applicant has two subsidiary banks located in the SMSA-First National Bank 
Madison ($158 million deposits), and Waunakee State Bank ($4.3 million 
P°sita). First National Bank of Madison is headquartered in downtown 
Madi a o n 
» approximately 6.5 miles east of Bank's site, and has a branch office 
m U e s 
e a 8 t 
o f 
t h e 
g i t e . W a u n a k e e 
s t a t e 
B a n k 
i g i o c a t e d 
a b o u t 12 m i i e g 
n°
rtheast nf u i i 
"r Bank a proposed location. 
The two present subsidiaries 
control h 
about 32 per cent of total deposits in the SMSA, but less than 
« V p e r 
G n t 
o f 
d e P o s i t s in accounts under $10,000, the size of account 
found * 
l n D u r b a n areas. 
Within the area described as Bank's proposed service area is 
The West 
Sate Bank, (a subsidiary of Mid-Wia Bankshares, Inc., with deposits 
of 
°
n)» located 2.3 miles southeast of Bank's site. A recently 
°Pened b 
ranch of American Exchange Bank (deposits $18 million) is less than 
°
ne m*le west 
,, , 
" Z 
T 7 
i 
^
 
e s c > and two other banks, the Bank of Middleton (deposits 
l l l l°n) and Hilldale State Bank (deposits $18 million) are located 
miles of the site. 

1846 
-2-
Since Bank is a proposed new bank, no existing competition will 
be eliminated by consummation of the proposed acquisition. However, 
objections to the proposal were filed with the Board by Mid-Wis Bankshares, 
Ir»c. and American Exchange Bank, alleging that consummation of the proposal 
W o u l d substantially lessen potential competition and retard the growth of 
other banks in the Madison area. It is the position of the objectors that the 
a r e a immediately surrounding Bank's site is sparsely settled, and is 
adequately served by existing banking facilities. It is contended that the 
r egional shppping center in which Bank will be located can be expected 
to 
draw heavily from population centers to the east, which already have con-
venient access to services of one of Applicant's subsidiaries. Because of 
th 
e strong competitive position of Applicant in the Madison area, it is 
a rgued that competition would be better served by denying the present 
aPPlication, allowing any additional banking services in the area to be 
Provided by another competitor, as and if a stronger need for such service 
d e velops. The Commissioner of Banking of the State of Wisconsin, in comments 
filed 
the Board, also supported the view that the application should be 
^nied. He differed to some extent with the other objectors as to the need 
additional banking facilities in the area, however, indicating that his 
had not objected to the chartering of Bank because of the conclusion 
that 
such a need does exist. He pointed out also that (after preliminary 
°
rter approval had been given to Bank) State authorities had approved a 
c n establishment by American Exchange Bank less than a mile from Bank's 
site » apparently concluding that, despite Bank's proposed establishment, 

1847 
-2-
a<*ditional facilities in the area were desirable. The Commissioner's dis-
approval of the proposal was premised on the view that "if this need 
exists. . .it will be provided by other interests which would not tend to create 
a further concentration of banking deposits in the Dane County area." 
In a Statement issued in connection with an application by this 
Applicant to establish a new bank in the Milwaukee area7 the Board reviewed 
e considerations applicable to such a proposal, as well as the cases in 
^hich such issue has been considered. As was there noted, the fact that 
a n applicant is the largest organization in a given area is not, in itself, 
Efficient basis for denying it the opportunity to make its services available 
t o additional customers, or more conveniently available to present customers, 
trough the establishment of a new subsidiary. The law generally looks 
more favor upon the establishment of new facilities than upon the 
Cclui3ition of a competitor, and even the most dominant organization should 
encouraged to be aggressive and innovative in exploring new means of 
p °viding improved services. While caution must be exercised to prevent 
etnption by a dominant organization of locations which could serve as a 
base fr>»-
competitive facilities, the Board's policy must not be so rigid as 
leave passive stagnation as the only course open to a large organization. 
°
rPoration which grows internally does so as a result of increased service 
to tho 
u 
Public, and such improved service is not to be looked upon with dis-
simply because it may tend to increase the size of an already large 
Nation. 
A 
favor 
°
r8ani 
If 
1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1024. 

1848 
-2-
On the record before it, the Board is of the view that there is 
adequate economic justification for the establishment of a bank at the 
Proposed site. As noted above, this conclusion is consistent with that of 
the Wisconsin Commissioner, and with that of the Comptroller of the Currency, 
authorized Bank's establishment. While it may be that some of the customers 
w h o would be served by Bank could be served by offices of another of Applicant's 
subsidiaries, Bank's site is certainly not so close to such present offices as 
t o be merely duplicative. Under the restrictive provisions of Wisconsin 
branching law, the establishment of Bank represents the only method by which 
Applicant can extend banking services at the shopping center at which Bank 
ill be located. The shopping center is of a size which usually houses at 
l eaat one banking office; it is scheduled to open within the next few months, 
n d only Applicant to date has evidenced interest in establishing a bank at 
that 
a 
location. In the Board's view, Applicant's proposal is not so antici-
Patory 0 f the need for the facility as to suggest that Applicant should be 
forced t 
o wait until it can be determined whether a competitively preferable 
Proposal might be forthcoming. 
Consummation of the proposal will permit Applicant to more fully 
compete in m 
the immediate area involved. Based on the projected deposits of 
($4.3 million after three years of operations), it does not appear 
that itg ownership by Applicant will significantly increase the share of market 
deposits controlled by Applicant, which share has shown a steady decline in 
recent v 
-ars. Neither does it appear that there would be undue adverse 
effe Cts on competing banks which presently are serving, or which potentially 
serve th» 
the areas involved. 

1819 
- 2 -
The Board concludes that consummation of Applicant's proposal would 
not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, 
0 r attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any area, and would not 
substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain 
trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The c 
G financial condition and management of Applicant and its subsidiary banks 
a r e regarded as satisfactory, and the prospects for the group are favorable. 
Bank is a proposed new bank, and has no financial or operating 
history. x t s management will be provided by Applicant and its present 
sidiaries, and its prospects, based on projections of growth and earnings 
*
h ich appear reasonable, are favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent with 
*PProval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Customers 
Of Annlf 
t 
cant s present subsidiary banks would not be affected by consummation 
of the 
P esent proposal, except to the extent that some customers of its 
Madison area subsidiaries may find Bank's location more convenient. 
The population of the area which Bank would immediately serve is 
13,5OO i 
» ncreased from 6,300 in 1960. Although banking needs of the area 
Presently being adequately met, it is anticipated that there will be 
Subg t 
Qntial population growth in the area, at a rate two to five times 
faster than <r> -u 
in the remainder of the city. In addition, both during and 
after 
etion of construction of the proposed shopping center, there will 
b e need f o r 
m°re convenient banking facilities than now exist, in order to 
loesses 
to be located there and employees and customers thereof. 

1850 
- 2 -
While Applicant does not contend that Bank will provide services not 
available in the general area, it will provide such services more con-
veniently than would otherwise be the case. These considerations weigh 
in favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
June 18, 1970. 

1851 
Dissenting Statement of Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer 
We do not agree that consummation of Applicant's proposal will 
s erve the public interest. The establishment and acquisition of Bank by 
the dominant organization in Dane County will perpetuate that dominance 
and foreclose an opportunity for the establishment of competitive facilities 
a t Bank's location. While somewhat greater convenience may be afforded to 
C ustomcrs already served by other subsidiaries of Applicant, much more 
s i g n i f i c a n t benefits to the community would result from provision of such 
services by alternative sources. We would therefore deny the present 
aPplication. 
Applicant controls 32 per cent of the deposits in Dane County, 
Qri 
amount more than twice as large as that held by the County's second 
8 G S t 
b a n k i n 8 organization. Its share of deposits in western Madison, 
m *hich Bank will probably draw the bulk of its business, is even higher. 
Prior Rn 
a A 
ard decisions have recognized that such an organization, because 
Of Its ahn * y
 t o 
s h i f t deposits from one office to another, may be 
P t l b I e °
f gasping a n opportunity to establish a new office at a developing 
location i 
n 
ong before it is economically feasible for others to take advantage 
0 f such an 
pportunity. If a reasonable balance of competitive power is 
achieved i n such markets, it is essential that no single competitor 
itted to exploit its advantageous position. In a case involving 
p o s e d expansion by this Applicant in the Milwaukee a r e a ^ the Board 
t h 
t h e 
c r i t e r i a to be applied to such a proposal, as follows: 
market^?
38111110*
1 **
 G n t r y 
i n t 0 
a c o r a n , e r c i a l banking 
3 restricted, opportunities for deconcentration 
i
7 1968 
set 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 645, 647-6 
648 

1852 
- 2 -
are limited. This is particularly true in a State 
such as Wisconsin, where branching is highly restricted. 
If every newly developing need for banking facilities 
were to be filled by the market's dominant organization, 
any meaningful deconcentration of the market's banking 
resources would be made impossible, and further con-
centration might be encouraged. Each application by 
such an organization to expand within its present trade 
area, even through acquisition of a new bank, must 
therefore be examined to determine its probable 
effect on existing concentration, whether it will 
foreclose an opportunity for new entry which could 
provide additional competition and possibly promote 
a decrease in concentration, and its effect in 
limiting the development of existing competitors 
located in cr near the area to be served by the 
new institution." 
In our opinion, the record on the present application 
®8tablishes that the effect of the proposal will be to increase 
concentration in the relevant area, or at the very least to maintain 
S uch concentration at present excessive levels, and to restrict the 
development of nearby banking offices established by smaller competitors 
The 
e Wisconsin Commissioner of Banking, the supervisor closest to 
t h e 8 c e n e , has expressed the judgment that, if Bank is not established, 
°
ny n e e d 
f°r additional banking capital in the area will be met 
y other interests as such need develops. He has further concluded 
t hat establishment of Bank by Applicant would tend to discourage new 
n t r y o r expansion in the area by others, leaving little likelihood 
t hat additional banking capital will be attracted to this area. We 
G U e v e the Commissioner's judgment in this respect is entitled to 
• < 
°re weight than is accorded it by the Board's majority. 

1853 
-2-
The majority, in ita Statement, assumes that internal growth 
inevitably reflects increased service to the public. In a free 
competitive market, this is probably true. But in a market dominated 
by one or a few competitors, internal growth of a competitor may only 
reflect its successful exploitation of its market position. This, we 
a u8gest, may well occur here. Applicant, because of its oligopoly 
Position, is able to seize an opportunity before it is economically 
feasible for a smaller competitor, or a potential competitor, to do 
8°* Applicant will likely grow as a result, but its growth may well be 
attributable to its success in foreclosing the establishment of competitive 
faciliti e 3 | rather than to providing improved service to the public. 
fact, with respect to a dominant firm in the market, increased size 
Qy well reflect a diminution, rather than an increase, in service 
t 0 the public. 
As we view the record, it establishes that the only benefit 
the community from Applicant's proposal will be the establishment 
another office to offer the same services which are already con-
veniently available from subsidiaries of Applicant. This minimal 
n efit falls far short of outweighing the effect of the proposal in 
reclosing the development of competitive facilities and services, 
is the area's greatest need. Therefore, the application should 
b e denied. 
J U U G 18, i 9 7 o . 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
6/18/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 18, 1970 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of April 13 and 27, 1970, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIC") 
to purchase and hold approximately 104,000 shares of Bankers Trust 
Factors Limited ("BTFL"), London, England, at a cost of approximately 
$285,600, provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of BTFL by BIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of BTFL if BTFL at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permis-
sible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if BTFL 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in England or 
elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to BIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BTFL as it may require from time 
to time; and 

1855 
Bankers International Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BTFL 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BTFL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by BTFL in England in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of BTFL. 
Your application stated that BTFL will not conduct any bus-
iness directly in the United States. You indicated, however, that 
BTFL may, from time to time, purchase from United Kingdom resident 
companies accounts receivable from United States customers of these 
companies. It is the Board's opinion that such activity, as described, 
if included as a part of the business of BTFL, would be incidental to 
the international or foreign business of that company and would not 
be inconsistent with the provisions of Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation K. 
As further requested in your letters, the Board of Governors 
grants approval for BTFL to issue and have outstanding, in accordance 
with Section 25(a) and Section 211.4 of Regulation K, promissory notes 
with maturities in excess of one year, up to a total of approximately 
$7 ,300,000, provided such notes are issued within eight years from the 
date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
a s they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation and Bankers Trust C o m p a n y , and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . K e n y o n , 
Deputy Secretary. 

r j. . 
y " I 
185B 
B D A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
1 
Item No. 3 
6/18/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
June 18, 1970 
Security Pacific National Bank, 
Sixth and Spring Streets, 
Los Angeles, California. 90054 
Gentlemen: 
if f 
If 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated May 14, 1970, 
of Security Pacific Overseas Corp., Los Angeles, California, and 
there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation 
to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organ-
ization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the pres-
ident, treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of 
the directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen 
of the United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital 
stock is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by cor-
porations the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens 
of the United States, chartered under the laws of the United States 
or of a State of the United States, or by firms or companies the 
controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States; and (3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in 
the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in 
in cash and that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash 
at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the 
treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining 
instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 

Security Pacific National Bank 
-2-
1857 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Security Pacific 
Overseas Corp. will have no separate base under the foreign credit 
restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments will need to 
be made under the ceiling of Security Pacific National Bank. Accordingly, 
the foregoing approval is given with the understanding that any for-
eign loans and investments of the Corporation will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign lending and investment activ-
ities of your bank and that due consideration will be given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O . C . 
a O S S I 
June 18, 1970 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Re serve System pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated May 14, 1970, of SECURITY PACIFIC OVERSEAS CORP. duly filed 
with said Board of Governors, and that SECURITY PACIFIC OVERSEAS 
CORP, is authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred upon 
it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to commence 
business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) 
5, 
, . 
and the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
(SEAL) 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By (Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1859 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
6/18/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 18, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. David C. Melnicoff, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
^ 
•>. 
-- 
• 
Dear Mr. Melnicoff: 
This is in reference to your letter of June 5, 1970, re-
questing authorization to increase the special maximum for Salary 
Grade 16 to $28,000 in connection with the hiring of Mr. Lyle P. 
Bickley at a salary of $26,000 per annum. 
The Board of Governors prefers not to increase the special 
maximum to $28,000 at this time in view of the size of the increase 
above the present special Grade 16 maximum of $19,500, the non-use 
of the special maximum that your Bank now has, and the fact that 
the proposed use of the revised maximum is for an isolated situation. 
However, the Board does approve an exception above the 
current special maximum of Grade 16 ($19,500) to hire Mr. Bickley 
at an annual salary of $26,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

; , 
. i M f e M & l i l f c 
i 
^felllillEfc/ 
f ^ f l f e l P f - - 
: 
,
 ; 
* 
Item No. 5 
6/18/70 
For immediate release. 
June 18, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today it has granted the State of Massachusetts an exemption 
under the Federal Truth in Lending Act, effective July 1, 1970. 
Massachusetts law, which is substantially similar to the Federal 
Statute, will apply to all classes of credit transactions within that: 
State, except those in which a Federally chartered institution--such 
n °
 a Federal credit union, Federal savings and loan association, or 
national bank--is a creditor. 
Section 123 of the Truth in Lending Act provides that the 
Board shall exempt from the disclosure and recission requirements of 
the Act any class of transactions within a State if the State law pro-
vides requirements substantially similar to those imposed by the 
Fede-al law, and there is adequate provision for enforcement. 
In making its determination, the Board noted that the 
Massachusetts law is at least as strict--and in some respects more 
strict—than the Federal Truth in Lending Statute, and that there is 
adequate provision for enforcement. 
-0-

1861 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226—TRUTH IN LENDING 
Exemption of Certain State Regulated Transactions 
. r 
..., 
, ; 
r y : i c 
J 
. 
r:.. 
• 
.. 
1. Effective July 1, 1970, Supolement III to Regulation Z 
(Section 226.12—Supplement) is amended by adding paragraph (d) as 
follows: 
>10; 1 - > ; 
.,, •> . • i 
Massachusetts; Except as provided in 5 226.12(c), the 
following classes of credit transactions within the State of Massachusetts 
except for those transactions in which a federally chartered institution 
> iftji:
 4 
a creditor are hereby granted an exemption from the requirements of 
Chapter 2 of the Truth in Lending Act effective July 1, 1970: 
(1) Transactions under open end consumer credit plans which 
a r ° subject to the requirements of section 127 of the Truth in Lending 
Act; 
(2) Consumer credit sales transactions not under open end 
Cr°dit plans which are subject to the requirements of section 128 of 
the Act; 
(3) Consumer loan transactions not under open end credit 
which arc subject to the requirements of section 129 of the Act. 

1862 
- 2 -
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to exempt certain credit 
• 
• 
• 
transactions in the State of Massachusetts from the requirements of 
Chapter 2 of the Truth in Lending Act (Title I of the Consumer Credit 
Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1601ff)). 
b. Pursuant to the provisions of 12 CFR 226.12 (Supplement IX 
to Part 226 (Regulation Z)), the State of Massachusetts applied to the 
Board for an exemption from the Truth in Lending Act; notice of receipt 
the application was published in the Federal Register of February 28, 
(35 F.R. 3927). The Beard granted this exemption after considera-
tion of all relevant material, including communications from interested 
Persons. The effective date of the exemption was deferred for less than 
t h e 30-day period referred to in section 553(d) of title 5, United States 
Code. The Board found that the amendment essentially involves no change 
n a substantive rule and deferral of the date beyond that adopted by 
Board would serve no useful purpose. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 18, 1970. 
[SEAL] 
(Signed) Kenneth A , Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1883 
Item No. 6 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
6/18/70 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
June 18, 1970. 
HAYES - NEW YORK 
Board of Governors today, after consultation with 
guaranteeing agencies, interposed no objection to departures 
from standard form of V-loan guarantee agreement reflected in 
June 17, 1970, proof of Interim V-Loan Guarantee Agreement 
attached as Schedule B to Interim Loan Agreement dated June 18, 
1970, between Penn Central Transportation Company and First 
National City Bank and other banks listed in Schedule A attached 
to such loan agreement. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 
