609 
5-67) 
Minutes for 
November 3, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4245 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, November 3, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Mrs. Winkler, S ecretary, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Bernard, Ettin, Keir, 
and Kelty of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Wood, Baker, Gekker, 
Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Today's review included comments by Mr. 
Bernard on the Government securities market, including recent and 
prospective Government financing, a brief discussion by Mr. Axilrod 
of projections of bank credit and other monetary variables, and a 
report by Mr. Ruckdeschel on the position of sterling, the Canadian 
situation, and the foreign exchange and gold markets. Copies of the 

4 2 4 G 
11/3/67 
-2-
tables and charts distributed in connection with today's review have 
been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Partee 
and Sammons then withdrew, as did Miss McWhirter, and the following 
entered: 
Messrs. Shay, Doyle? Noble, and Porter of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Smith, Cleaver, Greenspun, Lawrence, 
Sarfati, Shull, and Wiles of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Egertson, Burton, Guth, Kline, Lyon, 
Pounds tone, and Sanford of the Division of 
Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, and San Francisco on 
November 2, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in their exist-
ing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the members of the Board. Copies are attached under the respec-
tive item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, 
1 
New York, granting permission to acquire shares 
of Banco Argentino del Atlantico, Mar del Plata, 
Argentina. 

401 
11/3/67 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to The Northern Trust Company, Chicago, 
2 
Illinois, granting permission to organize a 
corporation under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act to be known as The Northern Trust 
International Banking Corporation, New York, 
New York, and transmitting a preliminary 
permit. 
Report on competitive factors. Pursuant to the understanding 
at the meeting on October 30, 1967, there had been distributed a 
revised draft of report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the com-
petitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Belmar-Wall National 
Bank, West Belmar, New Jersey, into New Jersey National Bank and Trust 
Company, Neptune Township, New Jersey. There had also been distributed, 
under date of November 2, 1967, an analysis of the competitive situation 
by the Banking Markets Section. 
Members of the Board suggested that the analysis by the Banking 
Markets Section be worked into the report, that the conclusion of the 
report follow the lines of the conclusion reached by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, and that the overall effect of the proposed merger on 
competition be cited as adverse. 
There being agreement with the foregoing suggestions, unanimous 
approval was given to the transmittal of the report to the Comptroller 
in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of New Jersey 
National Bank and Trust Company, Neptune Township, and 
Belmar-Wall National Bank, West Belmar, would eliminate 
existing and potential competition between them, although 

4z 
11/3/67 
-4-
the evidence suggests that Belmar-Wall National Bank has 
not been an aggressive competitor. In the Asbury Park-
Belmar area, New Jersey National Bank and Trust Company 
would increase significantly its already large portion 
of area deposits. Consummation of the proposed trans-
action would have no material effect on the competitive 
situation on the county level although it would increase 
slightly the already high concentration of banking re-
sources in the four largest banks. Numerous alterna-
tive banking facilities would remain in Monmouth County. 
On balance, it appears that the overall effect of 
the proposed merger on competition would be adverse. 
Application of Central Wisconsin Bankshares. On October 25, 
1967, the Board discussed the application of Central Wisconsin Bank-
shares, Inc., Wausau, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of up to 100 per cent of the voting shares of 
Mosinee Commercial Bank, Mosinee, Wisconsin. 
(Applicant already owned 
First American National Bank, Wausau, and Wisconsin Valley Trust Company 
of Wausau, the latter a nonbanking subsidiary.) 
The discussion at the October 25 meeting indicated that three 
members of the Board then present (Chairman Martin and Governors Mitchell 
and Maisel) were inclined to favor approval of the application while the 
other three members (Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill) felt 
that the application should be denied. Accordingly, it was agreed to 
defer action until such time as all members of the Board were present. 
Subsequently, there had been distributed a memorandum from Mr. 
Smith dated October 27, 1967, quoting a brief internal memorandum that 

4249 
11/3/67 
-5-
had been submitted by the Research Department of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago to the Examinations Department under date of December 21, 
1966. The Research Department expressed the opinion that from the stand-
point of effect on competition the proposed acquisition would be unfavor-
able compared to "what appear to be real alternatives to the control of 
the Mosinee Bank." Mr. Smith's memorandum also quoted a letter from 
Vice President Ross of the Chicago Reserve Bank dated December 30, 1966, 
expressing his understanding that other prospective purchasers were 
interested in obtaining only 51 per cent of the stock of the Mosinee 
bank. Mr. Ross saw no assurance that the alternatives "are likely to 
have a favorable effect on meeting public convenience and needs." 
Governor Daane, who was not present at the October 25 meeting, 
raised several questions bearing particularly on the convenience and 
needs and the competitive factors. He asked first whether it appeared 
that loan rates at the Mosinee bank would be raised if the application 
were approved, but not the rate on savings. 
Mr. Lyon replied that apparently it was planned to make the sav-
ings deposit rate of the Mosinee bank competitive with those of other 
banks in its area. The Chicago Reserve Bank felt confident that the 
rate would be raised to 4 per cent from its present 2 per cent level. 
Governor Daane also inquired what significance was attached to 
the fact that it was only about 15 miles from Mosinee to Wausau, over 
a good highway. 

4250 
11/3/67 
-6-
The staff noted that, as pointed out by Governor Mitchell at 
the October 25 meeting, if a person in the Mosin.ee community wanted to 
go to Wausau for banking services he was confronted with a 30-mile 
round trip. 
Governor Daane then said that on balance he was inclined to 
feel that the benefits to convenience and needs that would result from 
consummation of the proposed transaction slightly outweighed the adverse 
impact under the competitive factor. He did not attach as much weight 
as some of the other Board members apparently did to the factor of con-
centration of banking resources, for the increase in the present degree 
of concentration would be only minimal. He was somewhat concerned by 
the indication that loan rates would be increased at the Mosinee bank 
and by the evidence that First American Bank had not been aggressive 
in the area of farm lending whereas the Mosinee bank seemed to have 
been meeting community needs for that type of credit. However, in the 
absence of evidence that had not come to his attention, it was his con-
clusion that on balance there would probably be a benefit to the general 
area involved sufficient to offset any adverse competitive effects, 
although the case was in his opinion extremely close. 
After discussion of certain further questions raised by members 
of the Board, Chairman Martin expressed the view that the Board probably 
had at hand the information required to reach a decision, and he sug-
gested that a vote be taken. 

11/3/67 
-7-
Governor Maisel replied that he would not object to a vote 
being taken, subject to the understanding that members of the Board 
would have an opportunity for final review when the proposed majority 
and minority statements had been drafted. 
Governor Brimmer inquired why the comments of the Reserve 
Bank's Research Department and, in fact, the complete memorandum from 
the Chicago Reserve Bank (dated December 2, 1966) had not been included 
in the record of the hearing conducted by the hearing examiner. 
Mr. Solomon replied that it had been the general practice for 
Reserve Banks not to enter their views in the hearing record, on the 
theory that it was preferable for the Bank to maintain a position of 
objectivity and not to assume an adversary role. 
Governor Brimmer then inquired why the comments of the Research 
Department had not been included in the documentation originally fur-
nished to the Board by the staff, and Mr. Lyon replied that the docu-
mentation submitted was based principally on the record made at the 
formal hearing. The memorandum from the Reserve Bank had been included 
as an attachment to the documentation, but with a reminder that it could 
not be used as the basis for a decision. 
Governor Brimmer commented that his views, as stated earlier, 
that the application should be denied were fortified by the memorandum 
from the Research Department. 

4 2 5 2 
11/3/67 
-8-
Governor Daane asked for any further staff comment regarding 
the question of alternatives, as mentioned in the Research Department's 
memorandum, and it was indicated that the views of Vice President Ross 
appeared to represent the best answer on that point. 
Governor Mitchell noted that First American Bank, by offering 
a 4 per cent rate, evidently had been obtaining a substantial amount of 
savings deposits from the Mosinee area, while the Mosinee bank, which 
offered only a 2 per cent rate, apparently had been obtaining time 
deposits on a negotiated basis. This appeared to reflect a difference 
in the management methods of the two banks. First American Bank seemed 
to be negotiating for time deposits only as necessary, whereas the 
Mosinee bank apparently was offering a negotiated rate to those who 
complained. He tended to prefer the Wausau bank's approach. 
Staff indicated that both banks were understood to offer a 5 per 
cent rate on consumer-type CD's, although the Mosinee bank was said to 
require that CD's be held for at least a year to draw the 5 per cent 
rate. 
Chairman Martin then commented that he thought a good case 
could be made on both sides with respect to the application. He 
repeated his suggestion that it probably would be advisable to reach 
a decision on the application, which had been pending for an extended 
period of time. 

T«) t '2 
11/3/67 
-9-
Governor Maisel reiterated his understanding that members of 
the Board reserved the right to reconsider when the majority and dis-
senting statements had been drafted. 
In response to a question by the Chairman, the Secretary stated 
that the Legal Division had taken the view that votes could be changed 
as long as an application was "in the bosom of the Board." In practice 
there had been few, if any, instances where votes had been changed. 
A vote was then taken and the application was approved, Governors 
Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill dissenting for reasons they had stated 
at the October 25 meeting. It was understood that an order, majority 
statement, and dissenting statement would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Sherman and Kenyon then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Arrangements in regard to Mr. Sternlight. With further reference 
to a subject discussed at yesterday's meeting, Mr. Sherman reported that 
Peter D. Sternlight had been elected Assistant Vice President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, effective November 12, 1967, with 
salary at the annual rate of $28,000. Mr. Sternlight had been placed 
o: .ill. 
li-
on leave with pay beginning November 12 for a period of approximately 
five or six weeks to assist the Treasury, with the Treasury to pay his 
per diem and transportation expenses. Mr. Sternlight's status would be 
that of a Reserve Bank employee on loan to the Treasury on a consulting 
basis. 

4254 
11/3/67 
-io-
New York salaries. Governor Mitchell noted that arrangements 
had been made, pursuant to the request of the New York Reserve Bank, 
for directors of that Bank to meet with the Board on the afternoon of 
Tuesday, November 14, to discuss officers' salaries. The Bank had 
asked that the Board retain an open mind on the questions involved 
until after the meeting. However, if the Board members wanted to have 
some indication of the work that had been done thus far by the Board's 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, the item 
should most appropriately be placed on the agenda for the Board meeting 
next Tuesday when all members were scheduled to be present. 
Board members expressed a desire to receive pertinent informa-
tion from the Committee with a view to discussion at next Tuesday's 
Board meeting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Ruth Jones as Secretary, Division of Personnel Administration, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $7,055, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective November 5, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Office of the Secretary 
Mary A. Edgar, Secretary 
$6,065 
$6,263 

4255 
11/3/67 
-11-
Salary increases, effective November 5, 1967 (continued) 
Basic annual sa lary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Legal 
Howard B. Cloth, Attorney 
$ 7,696 
$ 9 ,221 
Research and Statistics 
Adeline E. Belloni, Statistical Clerk 
4,776 
4 ,936 
Sidney Washington, Library Assistant 
6,387 
6 ,563 
Examinations 
Adrien P. Francoeur, Federal Reserve Examiner 
11,685 
12 ,064 
Charles Hadley Fraser, Federal Reserve Examiner 
11,685 
12 ,064 
Roger A. Haskell, Assistant Federal Reserve 
9,536 
9 ,851 
Examiner 
Jerry B. Riley, Senior Federal Reserve 
15,629 
16 ,152 
Examiner 
Carl A. Zimmerman, Assistant Federal Reserve 
9,536 
9 ,851 
Examiner 
Data Processing 
Jacqueline Ann McDaniel, Programmer 
6,877 
7,090 

4256 
BDARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
11/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 3, 1967. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 2, 1967, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation M, for First National City Bank ("FNCB"), 
New York, New York, to purchase and hold up to 100 per cent of the 
outstanding capital stock of Banco Argentino del Atlantico ("Banco"), 
Mar del Plata, Argentina, at a cost of approximately US$1,200,000, 
provided that approximately 63 per cent of Banco's outstanding five-
vote shares and 48 per cent of Banco's one-vote shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Banco by FNCB is granted subject to the applicable pro-
visions of Section 25 and Regulation M and the condition that FNCB 
shall not hold any shares of stock in Banco if Banco at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible to a national 
bank or to a foreign branch of a national bank under the provisions 
of Regulation M. 
The above consent is granted with the further condition 
that FNCB shall not carry on its books the shares acquired by Banco 
at a net amount in excess of its proportionate share of the book 
capital accounts of Banco, after giving effect to the elimination 
of all known losses. 
Regulation M provides that, when required by the Board of 
Governors, FNCB will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Banco as it may require from time to time. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign 
loans and investments of First National City Bank, First National 

<1257 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
First National City Bank 
-2-
City Overseas Investment Corporation, International Banking Corpora-
tion, and First National City Bank (International), will not cause 
the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines 
established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now 
in effect. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
. v. 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
j 
! • 7 
i 
L
i
.
. 

4258 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
11/3/67 
A D D R E B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 3, 1967. 
The Northern Trust Company, 
50 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen; 
• The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Associa-
tion and Organization Certificate dated October 2, 1967, of The 
Northern Trust International Banking Corporation, New York, New York, 
and there is enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corpora-
tion to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, the 
Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred by 
Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the President, Treasurer 
or Secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest of which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States, 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has 
been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually paid in 
in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, 
the Treasurer or Secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining 
instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 
Your attention is called to the fact that The Northern Trust 
International Banking Corporation will have no separate base under the 
voluntary foreign credit restraint effort, and any foreign loans or 
investments will need to be made under the ceiling of The Northern Trust 
Company. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the under-

4259 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
The Northern Trust Company. -2-
standing that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation, 
combined with those of The Northern Trust Company, will not cause 
the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines 
established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now 
in effect, and that due consideration will be given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

YZ 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
November 3, 1967. 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association dated October 2, 1967; and the 
Organization Certificate dated October 2, 1967, of THE NORTHERN 
TRUST INTERNATIONAL BANKING CORPORATION duly filed with said Board 
of Governors, and that THE NORTHERN TRUST INTERNATIONAL BANKING 
CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred 
upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to 
its organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to commence 
business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) 
and the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(SEAL) 
By (Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
