R 609 
Rev. 5-67) 
Minutes for September 5, 1967 
• 
• • i 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
/ J 

c W / / 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 5, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Cloth, Craig, Noble, Porter, Plotkin, 
and Via, and Miss Hart of the Legal Division 
Mr. Shu11 
of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Burton and Lyon of the Division of 
Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York and San Francisco on August 31, 1967, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
Exemption from registration requirements (Item No. 1). There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 

3478 
9/5/67 
- 2 -
August 31, 1967, recommending approval of requests from Harvard Trust 
Company, Cambridge; Newton-Waltham Bank and Trust Company, Newton; 
Norfolk County Trust Company, Brookline; and Valley Bank and Trust 
Company, Springfield, (all in Massachusetts), for exemption from the 
registration provisions of section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 and Regulation F, Securities of Member State Banks. 
In reviewing the material in the memorandum, Mr. Plotkin indi-
cated that the number of each bank's stockholders had been reduced to 
less than 300 as a result of an exchange offer by the parent registered 
bank holding company, Baystate Corporation, to the minority stockholders 
of its subsidiary banks in May 1967. Under the Securities Exchange Act, 
registration previously effected automatically terminates 90 days after 
the bank files a certification that the number of its stockholders has 
been reduced to less than 300. Consequently, if the Board were to deny 
the applications, the banks would be required to file registration 
statements, but registration would terminate shortly, and thereafter 
the banks would not be subject to the disclosure requirements of the 
Securities Exchange Act and Regulation F. With respect to the rights 
of minority shareholders, Mr. Plotkin observed, in response to a ques-
tion by Governor Robertson, that it would appear such shareholders had 
been adequately protected in view of the fact that Baystate Corporation 
had filed a 100-page prospectus with the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission outlining in detail the terms of the exchange offer. 

: M 7 9 
9/5/67 
- 3 -
An order granting the exemptions was then approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Application of First Holding Company (Items 2-3). The Board 
authorized issuance of an order and statement, as drafted for the Board's 
consideration, reflecting approval on August 3, 1967, of the application 
of First Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, Wisconsin, to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of First National Bank of Waukesha, Waukesha, Wisconsin, 
and The First National Bank in Wauwatosa, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. Copies 
of the order and statement, as issued, are attached as Items 2 and 3, 
respectively. 
Request for determination under Clayton Act (Item No. 4). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated September 1, 1967, from the Legal 
Divi sion recommending that University National Bank, College Park, Mary-
land, be advised that the City of College Park, Maryland, and the District 
of Columbia are "adjacent" for purposes of section 8 of the Clayton Act 
and Regulation L, 
Interlocking Bank Directorates under the Clayton Act, 
thus precluding interlocking service between member banks in Washington, 
D. C., and College Park. 
After presentation of the matter by Mr. Craig, Governor Brimmer 
suggested that the letter to the bank be modified to specify that the 
Board expected the interlocking service between the two member banks in 
question to be terminated as soon as possible. 

3 1 R n 
9/5/67 
- 4 -
The letter to University National Bank, as so revised, was then 
approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
Proposed acquisition of mortgage company (Item No. 5). There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated Septem-
ber 1, 1967, concerning the proposed acquisition of a mortgage company 
by National Bank of Washington, Tacoma, Washington, a subsidiary of 
Western Bancorporation. This matter was originally considered by the 
Board at its meeting on August 18, 1967, at which time it was concluded 
that the exceptions to the prohibition against nonbank stock acquisitions 
by bank holding companies contained in sections 4(c)(5) and 4(c)(1)(C) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act were not applicable. In its letter of 
the same date, the Board so informed counsel for the national bank. 
Representatives of the national bank subsequently were in touch with 
Governor Mitchell and, at his suggestion, with the Legal Division, as 
reported at the meeting on August 29. 
In reviewing the September 1 memorandum, Mr. Hexter explained 
that National Bank of Washington now proposed to modify the operations 
of the mortgage company in a manner designed to bring the acquisition 
of its shares within the scope of the exception provided in sec-
tion 4(c)(1)(C). As originally planned, the mortgage company would 
have engaged in soliciting and making mortgage loans, as well as ser-
vicing such loans on a fee basis. The plan had been changed so that 
the mortgage company would not make loans on its own behalf, but would 
submit all loan applications to National Bank of Washington for approval. 

34 81 
9/5/67 
-5-
Mr. Hexter observed that this mode of operation would bring 
the present case within the terms of a 1965 Board ruling and that, con-
sequently, the present proposal must be approved unless the Board was 
prepared to reverse its 1965 interpretation. He said that he would not 
recommend such a course of action even though it might be argued that 
the Board's 1965 ruling had extended section 4(c)(1)(C) to cover more 
than those "internal-type" activities that the section may have been 
intended to cover. 
Governor Mitchell agreed. Although it was unfortunate that the 
Board had not yet had an opportunity to complete its consideration of 
policy with respect to operations subsidiaries, the National Bank of 
Washington had relied on the 1965 ruling in revising its plan, and he 
considered it appropriate to adhere to the line of reasoning expressed 
therein. 
After further discussion, the Board approved unanimously the 
sending of a letter to counsel for National Bank of Washington advising 
that Western Bancorporation1s proposed indirect acquisition of stock 
of the mortgage company would be permissible under section 4(c)(1)(C) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. It was understood that an interpreta-
tion based on this ruling would be published. 
A copy of the letter sent pursuant to the Board's action is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

9/5/67 
-6-
3 4 8 2 
Secretary's Notes: Acting in the absence of 
Governor Robertson, Governor Sherrill approved 
on behalf of the Board on September 1, 1967, 
memoranda recommending the following actions 
relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Jeanette R. Daluisio as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Eileen Pollack as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increase 
Carroll Hawkins, Messenger-Driver, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, from $3,609 to $3,925 per annum, effective September 24, 1967. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Acceptance of resignations 
Niles Wusterbarth, Summer Assistant assigned to the Office of the 
Secretary, effective the close of business September 1, 1967. 
Julia Mae Frager, Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, effective the close of business September 5, 1967. 
Herbert A. Lewis, Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, effective the close of business September 6, 1967. 
Jerome Perry, Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business September 5, 1967. 
Luther Peterson, Jr., Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business September 6, 1967. 
Michael Thomas, Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business September 5, 1967. 
Barbara A. Gooden, Keypunch Operator, Division of Data Processing, 
effective the close of business September 8, 1967. 

3483 
9/5/67 
- 7 -
On September 1 and 5, 1967, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under dele-
gated authority as indicated by the fol-
lowing items, copies of which are attached 
under the respective numbers indicated: 
On September 1, 1967 
By the General Counsel of the Board 
Item No. 
Order granting motion and amending previous 
6 
order in respect to requests of Otto Bremer 
Company, St. Paul, Minnesota, for certain 
determinations under section 4(c)(8) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act. 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
7 
approving the appointment of Anthony J. Montelaro, 
Jr., as assistant examiner. 
,;v> V 
/:;.!; J 'iV-^JiV Co; v.:-.-/ , 
iv^-i , 'I':..,;;-, 
-.:.£ „ : 
By the Director of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
8 
approving the appointment of Robert B. Higgins 
and Paul E. McNulty as Alternate Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agents. 
On September 5, 1967 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
9 
approving the designation of Melvin R. Fields and 
James R. Flinn as special assistant examiners. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington, D. C. 
Item No 
9/5/67 
In the Matter of the Applications of 
1 
HARVARD TRUST COMPANY, 
1 
NEWTON-WALTHAM BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, 1 
NORFOLK COUNTY TRUST COMPANY, and 
1 
VALLEY BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, 
' 
for exemption from the registration 
1 
requirements of the Securities Exchange1 
Act of 1934. 
«• 
ORDER GRANTING EXEMPTIONS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 12(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78 1), 
applications by Harvard Trust Company, Cambridge, Massachusetts, Newton 
Waltham Bank and Trust Company, Newton, Massachusetts, Norfolk County 
Trust Company, Brookline, Massachusetts, and Valley Bank and Trust 
Company, Springfield, Massachusetts ("banks"), member State banks of 
the Federal Reserve System, for exemption from the registration 
acquirements of section 12(g) of said Act. 
Public notice of receipt of the applications and opportunity 
t o request a hearing thereon (32 Fed. Reg. 10025) has been given by 
the Board and no such request has been received. 
From the information set forth in the applications or other-
wise available, the Board finds that: 

. 
3485 
(1) each of the banks had assets of over $1 million and 
500 or more stockholders of record on December 31, 1966, and, there-
fore, is required to file a registration statement under section 12(g)(1) 
of the Act, unless exempted by the Board; 
(2) the number of each bank's stockholders of record has been 
reduced to less than 300 as a result of an exchange offer to minority 
stockholders of each bank, in May 1967, by Baystate Corporation, a 
holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
which previously owned and continues to own a majority of the out-
standing stock of each bank; and 
(3) no useful purpose would be served by requiring the banks 
to register with the Board, in that (a) substantially the same informa-
tion as would be required in a registration statement is already publicly 
available in a registration statement filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission by Baystate Corporation under the Securities Act 
o f 1933, and (b) registration of each bank's securities would be ter-
minated shortly thereafter, pursuant to section 12(g)(4) of the 1934 
A ct, as the number of each of its stockholders of record has been 
reduced to less than 300. 
Upon consideration of all the circumstances, the Board con-
dudes that the granting of the requested exemptions x*ould not be 
inconsistent with the public interest or the protection of investors. 

34 8G 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that Harvard Trust Company, Newton-
Waltham Bank and Trust Company, Norfolk Cdunty Trust Company, and 
y/S/0/ 
Valley Bank and Trust Company be, and each is hereby, exempted from 
the registration requirements of section 12(g) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, provided, however, that such exemption shall 
terminate in the event the number of holders of record of any class 
equity securities of such bank should subsequently exceed 500 
persons. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 5th day of September, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
JUlxJ 
(Signed) Herritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3187 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Item No. 2 
9/5/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST HOLDING COMPANY, INC., 
Waukesha, Wisconsin, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the acqui-
sition of 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of First National Bank 
of Waukesha, Waukesha, Wisconsin, and 
The First National Bank in Wauwatosa, 
Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)), and section 222.4(a)(1) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.4(a)(1)), an application by First Holding Company, Inc., 
Waukesha, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of action to become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
°f the voting shares of First National Bank of Waukesha, Waukesha, 
Wisconsin, and The First National Bank in Wauwatosa, Wauwatosa, 
Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 

34 88 
- 2 -
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended that the appli-
cation be approved. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 1, 1967 (32 Federal Register 7924), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to 
the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of the Order, unless 
such time shall be extended by further order of the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 5th day of September, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Daane and Brimmer, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
(SEAL) 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
9/5/67 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST HOLDING COMPANY, INC., WAUKESHA, WISCONSIN, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
• 
' STATEMENT 
First Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of SO per cent or more of 
the outstanding voting shares of First National Bank of Waukesha, Waukesha, 
Wisconsin ("Waukesha'National"), and The First National Bank in Wauwatosa, 
T 
& 
-Wauwatosa, Wisconsin ("Wauwatosa National"). As of December 31, 1966, 
Waukesha National, with two offices and deposits of $79 million, was 
the fifth largest banking organization in Wisconsin in terms of deposits. 
affiliation with Wauwatosa National, which has total deposits of 
$24 million, would give Wisconsin an eighth bank holding company, and 
represent the Statue1 s fifth largest banking organization. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was 
given to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his views and recommendation 
were requested. The Comptroller recommended that the application be 
c 
aPproved. 
I/Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are of this date. 

- 2 -
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly, or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States. 
Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, the effect of which, 
in any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, 
or tend to create a monopoly, or x^hich in any other manner would be in 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the conven-
ience and needs of the community to be served. In each case the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 12 largest 
banking organizations operating in Wisconsin controlled about 41 per 
cent of the State's total deposits as of December 31, 1966. Subsidiary 
banks of seven bank holding companies control about 34 per cent of the 
deposits; consummation of Applicant's proposal would result in eight 
bank holding companies controlling about 35 per cent of deposits. 
Waukesha National's main office is located in downtown Waukesha, 
ab 
. 
°ut 18 miles west of Milwaukee. The primary service area 
of this 
office encompasses the City of Waukesha and a surrounding area of three 
2./ The area from which Applicant estimates about 80 per cent of the deposits 
°f individuals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC deposits") in this 
°ffice are derived. 

-3- 
3491 
or four miles--all V7ithin Uaukesha County--and has an estimated popu-
lation of 55,000. Its only branch, located in the Village of Butler 
(Waukesha County), about 14 miles northeast of the main office, serves 
an area including Butler (population of 2,500) and the surrounding 
suburban area within a radius of one to five miles. The service area 
has an estimated population of 15,000. Waukesha County is served by 
16 banks, of which Uaukesha National is the largest, holding 36 per 
cent of the deposits held by the 27 banking offices of the county. 
Wauwatosa National is located in Uauwatosa (Milwaukee County), 
about 13 miles east of the main office of Uaukesha National, six miles 
southeast of the latter's Butler branch, and less than seven miles from 
downtown Milwaukee. It has one office, the primary service area of 
which is a major portion of Uauwatosa, with a population of some 47,000. 
Uauwatosa National is the second largest of three banks located in its 
service area. Holding, respectively, 28, 27, and 23 per cent of the 
total deposits, IPC deposits, and total loans in its area, Uauwatosa 
National is but one-half the size of the largest bank in the area. It 
controls less than 1 per cent of the total deposits held by the 40 banks 
Milwaukee County. 
On the record before the Board, it is apparent that the pro-
Posed affiiiation would not alter significantly the existing concentration 
° f b a n k ing resources in the State, or in any other area affected by the 
Proposal, including the primary service areas of the banks involved. 

-4- 
:M 92 
An analysis of the deposit and loan accounts of the two 
proposed subsidiary banks submitted by Applicant indicates an insig-
nificant competitive overlap between and among their offices. The 
primary service area of each of the banks1 offices appears to be self-
contained and is separated from the others by intervening banks. 
Accordingly, consimmation of the proposal herein will not substantially 
lessen competition between the banks involved. Nor does it appear 
likely that significant future competition between them will be foreclosed 
by the proposal. 
Competition with one or more of the three offices of the 
proposed subsidiary banks is provided by 36 offices of 25 banks, as 
well as by large downtown Milwaukee banks. The 25 competing banks 
r*nge in size from less than $1 million to about $57 million. Included 
arron6 these are six banks, with eight offices, representing the State's 
three largest holding companies. Two holding company banks are located 
in the area intervening between Wauxvatosa National and Waukesha 
National's closest office (the Butler branch). Each of the proposed 
subsidiary banks' offices competes with at least 13 other banking 
offices. Consummation of Applicant's proposal is not likely to affect 
significantly the competitive vitality of Waukesha National. While this 
bank is already a substantial competitive force in its service area, the 
affiliation herein would not serve to impair the vigor of its several 
competitors. In the area served by Wauwatosa National, competition is 
likely to be stimulated by the proposed acquisition. The record shows 

3198 
that the lending policies at Wauwatosa National have been highly 
conservative. The affiliation proposed would likely result in the 
bank's pursuit of a more aggressive lending policy. In addition, 
Applicant proposes inauguration, or expansion, of other services. 
For example, consummation of Applicant's proposal will make possible a 
local source, not now available, of trust services. Such changes would 
serve to enhance competition in the area. The likely increased com-
petitive ability of Wauwatosa National would not appear to have 
undesirable implications for its competitors, the nearest (geograph-
ically) of which is more than twice the size of Uauuatosa National. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
transaction would not result in a monopoly, nor be in furtherance of 
a ny combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business 
o f banking in any part of the United States; and that consummation 
w i H not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
n° r l n a ny other manner restrain trade in any relevant section of 
the country. 
• . , 
. 
» 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant has no operating history; its financial and managerial resources, 
a s well as its prospects, are dependent in major respects upon those of 
the 1 
e banks it proposes to acquire. Both proposed subsidiary banks are 
financially sound, with good earnings records, satisfactory management, 
a n d good prospects. Improvement in the managerial resources and com-
petitive capability of Wauwatosa National may reasonably be expected to 
result from consummation of the proposal. Applicant's financial resources, 

-6- 
3194 
management (drawn from the proposed subsidiary banks), and future 
prospects are, accordingly, satisfactory. The foregoing considerations 
are consistent with, and lend some weight toward, approval of the 
application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
record reflects that Waukesha National's main office and Butler branch 
are adequately serving the convenience and needs of the communities 
served primarily by those offices. As earlier indicated, however, 
Wauwatosa National is not presently offering the scope and nature 
of services calculated to serve conveniently the customers within its 
service area. While the banking needs of the Wauwatosa area appear 
to be served by the several banks competing therein, particularly the 
Milwaukee area banks, the greater immediacy and convenience of services 
offered the Wauwatosa community by Applicant's proposal, including 
services not presently available through Wauwatosa National, are cons id-
eations supporting approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
aPplication should be approved. 
SePtember 
5, 1967. 

B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
9/5/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 5, 1967 
Mr. James B. Brockett, President, 
University National Bank, 
4321 Hartwick Road, 
College Park, Maryland. 20740 
Dear Mr. Brockett: 
Your letter of August 8, 1967, asks whether the election of 
Mr. John E. Sumter, Jr. to the Board of Directors of University National 
Bank is permissible under section 8 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 19) 
and Regulation L (Interlocking Bank Directorates Under the Clayton Act, 
12 CFR 212), issued by the Board of Governors pursuant to that section. 
Mr. Sumter is a senior loan officer of the American Security and Trust 
Company, Washington, D. C. 
Section 8 forbids interlocking service between a member bank 
and another bank with certain exceptions, one of which permits such service 
when none of the banks' offices are located in cities, towns, or villages 
which are "contiguous" or "adjacent" (15 U.S.C. 19(5); 12 CFR 212.2(d)(5)). 
Footnote 8 of section 212.2(d)(5) of Regulation L defines "adjacent" 
communities as ". . . cities, towns and villages which, although not 
actually 'contiguous' . . ., are located in such close proximity and are 
so readily accessible to each other as to be in practical effect a 
single city, town, or village, as for example, cities, towns, or villages 
separated only by a water-course, or a suburb of a city separated from 
that city by an intervening suburb." 
The City of College Park lies about two and one-half miles 
from the District of Columbia line at its closest point. College Park 
is directly connected to the central city by two heavily traveled 
thoroughfares (Queens Chapel Road and Rhode Island Avenue) and by a 
complex grid of interconnecting streets. The land between the two 
cities has a predominantly developed character, so that, in the words 
°f Regulation L, the District of Columbia and the City of College Park 

Mr. James B. Brockett 
-2-
i. "i ». K 5 
appear "so readily accessible to each other as to be in practical effect 
a single city . . 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the inter-
locking service of Mr. Sumter as a loan officer of the American Security 
and Trust Company and a Director of the University National Bank is 
prohibited by section 8 of the Clayton Act and Regulation L. 
Inasmuch as Mr. Sumter has apparently assumed the director-
ship, it would be appreciated if University National Bank would notify 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond as soon as possible that Mr. Sumter 
has ceased to be a member of its Board of Directors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
.« : t. 
c c: Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, FRBk of Richmond 
Comptroller of the Currency 

3407 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No> 
5 
• F T H E 
9
/
5
/
6
7 
' 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
September 5, 1967. 
Mr. James E. O'Hern, 
Blair, Thomas, O'Hern & Daheim, 
502 Rust Building, 
Tacoma, Washington. 98402 
Dear Mr. O'Hern: 
This is in response to your letter of August 29 with respect 
o the acquisition of the stock of a mortgage-loan corporation by 
agonal Bank of Washington, a subsidiary of Western Bancorporation, 
a bank holding company. 
lq
 
A s you know, section 4(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
(12 U.S.C. 1843) generally prohibits either direct or indirect 
ownership by a bank holding company of the voting shares of nonbank 
corporations. Section 4(c) provides a number of exceptions to that 
holer b i t i° n' a n d y ° U r i n q u i r y i s whether the proposed acquisition and 
° r ing of the shares of the mortgage company in question would be 
exempted by section 4(c)(1)(C), which permits a holding company to 
^cquire, directly or indirectly, shares of a company "engaged or to 
en8aged solely in . . . furnishing services to or performing ser-
l C e s f o r [the] bank holding company or its banking subsidiaries". 
Under the arrangement now contemplated, the corporation in 
^ e ® t i o n would solicit mortgage loans on behalf of the bank, assemble 
g
r e it: information, make property inspections and appraisals, and 
cure title information. It would also participate in the prepara-
tion of applications for mortgage loans. The applications and the 
th e
a t e d d a t a w o u l d t h e n b e submitted to National Bank of Washington, 
cor C ° r p 0 r a t W s P a r e n t> together with the recommendations of the 
alo P° r a t i 0 n W i t h r e s P e c t t o action on the loan applications. The bank 
Th G
n e W O u l d d e c i d e whether to make any or all of the loans requested, 
lo 
corP°ration would also solicit investors to purchase mortgage 
^ ans f r o m 
bank and would seek to have such investors contract 
11 the bank for the servicing of such loans. 

Mr. James E. O'Hern 
- 2 -
3 1 9 8 
The corporation would not make any loans or enter into any 
mortgage servicing contracts for its own account. It would engage in 
the described activities solely on behalf of National Bank of Washing-
ton. 
The Board of Governors has concluded that section 4(c)(1)(C) 
°f the Bank Holding Company Act is applicable to shares of a corpora-
tion engaged solely in the described activities, and that, consequently, 
the indirect acquisition and ownership of such shares by Western Ban-
corporation is not subject to the prohibitions of section 4(a) of that 
Your letter indicates that, in the first instance, National 
«ank. of Washington plans to acquire the stock of an existing mortgage-
n corporation, which will be dissolved and its assets and business 
taken over by that bank. The bank will then transfer the assets and 
usiness to a new corporation established for this purpose. It is 
assumed that such dissolution and transfers will occur promptly after 
Requisition of the stock of the existing mortgage-loan corporation or, 
l n tlle alternative, that said existing corporation will promptly 
cease to make loans, enter into servicing contracts, and the like,for 
its own account. 
Very truly yours, 
Secretary. 

'>/? q q 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, Do C. 
Item No. 6 
9/5/67 
In the Matter of the Application of 
OTTO BREMER COMPANY and OTTO BREMER FOUNDATION, 
st. Paul, Minnesota 
Pursuant to Section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 for determinations 
re the proposed Farmers Insurance Agency, Inc., 
American Insurance Agency, Inc., International 
State Insurance Agency, Inc., Farmers Agricultural 
Credit Co., Inc., and Carrington Credit Co. 
ORDER GRANTING MOTION AND AMENDING 
ORDER GRANTING DETERMINATIONS UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
Otto Bremer Company, St. Paul, Minnesota, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. §1841(a)), filed requests for determinations by the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System that the activities planned to be 
undertaken by its proposed subsidiaries, Farmers Insurance Agency, Inc., 
American Insurance Agency, Inc., International State Insurance Agency, Inc., 
Farmers Agricultural Credit Co., Inc., and Carrington Credit Co., are of the 
kind described in section 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. § 1843 (c)(8)) and 
section 222.5(b) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR § 222.5(b)), so as to 
"^ke it unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4(a) of the Act, re-
a c t i n g 
the ownership or control of shares in nonbanking companies, to 
aPply i n order to carry out the purposes of the Act. 
DOCKETS NOS. BHC-75, 
BHC-76, 
BHC-77, 
BHC-78, 
BHC-79. 

- 2 -
>1500 
Following appropriate notice, a hearing on the applications was 
duly held and, by Order of August 23, 1967, the General Counsel of the 
Board, acting pursuant to delegated authority, granted the requested 
determinations for the reasons set forth in the Statement that accompanied 
the Order. 
By motion of August 25, 1967, in which Board Counsel joined, 
it was requested that the applications, as well as the Order granting the 
determinations and other appropriate documents of record, in these pro-
ceedings be amended, nunc pro tunc, to name the Otto Bremer Foundation as 
an additional applicant authorized to acquire voting shares of each of the 
Proposed subsidiaries. The Otto Bremer Foundation, which owns all of the 
outstanding voting shares of the Otto Bremer Company, became a bank holding 
company within the purview of the Bank Holding Company Act as a result of 
amendments thereto during the pendency of these proceedings. By virtue of 
its status as a bank holding company, the Otto Bremer Foundation will be 
deemed to own or control indirectly the voting shares of the five proposed 
subsidiaries planned to be acquired by the Otto Bremer Company. In addition, 
a s the record shows, the Otto Bremer Foundation has planned from the incep-
tion of these proceedings to acquire directly voting shares in these pro-
Posed subsidiaries. 
The factual and legal considerations that are determinative of 
the question whether the activities planned to be undertaken by the pro-
Posed subsidiaries meet the requisites of section 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
section 222.5(b) of the Board's Regulation Y are the same whether the 
aPplicant be the Otto Bremer Company, the Otto Bremer Foundation, or both. 

- 3 -
. - 
3 5 0 1 
Persons desiring to give testimony respecting this question have been 
afforded the opportunity to do so. The granting of the motion would 
satisfy a procedural requirement without impairing the rights of any 
Person and would be consistent with the purposes of the Act. For good 
cause shown, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the motion is granted. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 
) ^ d a y of September, 1967. 
By order of the General Counsel of the Board of Governors, 
acting on behalf of the Board pursuant to delegated authority. 

«al reS^ 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
9/5/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 1, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of August 30, 1967, the Acting Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the appointment of Anthony J. Montelaro, Jr. 
as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
It is noted that Mr. Montelaro owns 50 shares of the 
Fort Lee Trust Company, Fort Lee, New Jersey. Accordingly, the 
approval of the appointment of Mr. Montelaro is given with the 
understanding that he dispose of the stock no later than 30 days 
from the effective date of his appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
OvJ* * 
Item No. 8 
9/5/67 
Mr. Erwin D. Canham, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 5, 1967 
Dear Mr. Canham: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the 
Division of Personnel Administration has approved the request con-
tained in your letter of August 25, 1967, for the appointments of 
Messrs. Robert B. Higgins and Paul E. McNulty as Alternate Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agents. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Messrs. 
Higgins and McNulty will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve 
Agent and the Board of Governors for the proper performance of their 
duties, except that, during the absence or disability of the Federal 
Reserve Agent or a vacancy in that office, their responsibilities 
will be to the Assistant Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of 
Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of their duties as 
Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agents, Messrs. Higgins and 
McNulty may, with the approval of the Federal Reserve Agent and the 
President, perform such work for the Bank as will not be inconsis-
tent with their duties as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agents. 
It will be appreciated if Messrs. Higgins and McNulty are 
fully informed of the importance of their responsibilities as mem-
bers of the staff of the Federal Reserve Agent and the need for 
maint enance of independence from the operations of the Bank £n the 
discharge of these responsibilities. 
Please have Messrs. Higgins and McNulty execute the usual 
Oath of Office which should be forwarded to the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
9/5/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 6, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
• N 
1 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of August 31, 1967, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the designation of Melvin R. Fields and James R. Flinn 
as special assistant examiners for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond. 
Very truly yours, 
• 
• ' * 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
