Minutes for 
October 10, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
Governor Sherrill 

SHH2 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 10, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mrs. Heller, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Messrs. Mcintosh, Senior Operations Analyst, and 
Ring, Senior Technical Assistant, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. McClintock, Assistant to the Director, Division 
of Examinations 

3883 
10/10/67 
-2-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to State Bank and Trust Company of 
1 
Petoskey, Petoskey, Michigan, approving the 
establishment of a branch in Alanson and com-
menting on plans to strengthen the bank's 
capital position. 
Letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
2 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Athens, Greece. 
Bank services (Item No. 3). There had been distributed a memo-
randum dated October 4, 1967, from the Division of Examinations relating 
to a request from Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency Com-
mittee for information on the extent to which certain specified services 
were offered, or activities engaged in, by State member banks. An interim 
reply had been sent to Chairman Patman on August 10, 1967, indicating 
that statistics were not readily available because examination reports 
of State member banks did not contain lists of services offered by the 
banks, but that an effort would be made to draw together such general 
information as was available through the Reserve Banks. Attached to the 
memorandum was a draft of further reply to Chairman Patman that would 
transmit information based on the data provided by the Reserve Banks. 

3884 
10/10/67 
-3-
Messrs. Cardon and Solomon (Examinations) suggested certain 
changes in the presentation of the information that had been assembled 
and explained why those changes, largely editorial in nature, were 
believed advisable. Other changes were agreed upon, in the interest 
of accuracy, as the result of points raised by Governors Daane and 
Maisel. 
Governor Brimmer stated that, while he had no specific comments 
with respect to the proposed reply, he did want to note that the Patman 
inquiry touched upon the question of operations subsidiaries and sug-
gested the kind of census that probably would be required when the Board 
came to grips with that problem. 
It being understood that the changes agreed upon during the 
discussion would be incorporated, unanimous approval was given to the 
transmittal to Chairman Patman of a letter in the form attached as 
Item No. 3. 
Reserve Bank building construction programs (Item No. 4). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated September 25, 1967, from the 
Division of Bank Operations recommending (1) that a recently completed 
staff study estimating the size and scope of Reserve Bank operations in 
the future be sent to the Reserve Banks for their information and (2) 
that a draft of proposed guidelines for building programs be sent to the 
Reserve Banks with a request for comment. Attached to the memorandum 
was a proposed letter of transmittal. 

3885 
10/10/67 
-4-
Following comments by Mr. Farrell, Governor Mitchell observed 
that several Reserve Banks were presently involved in the planning of 
buildings and would benefit from access to a study of this type. It 
seemed to him that an individual Reserve Bank was not as well equipped, 
in terms of over-all comprehension of projection problems, to produce 
such a study. Accordingly, he would favor sending the study to the 
Reserve Banks and seeking their reactions to the suggested guidelines. 
During the ensuing discussion Governors Daane and Brimmer raised 
questions with respect to the implications of distributing the study and 
the proposed guidelines, particularly in relation to the building pro-
gram of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which had been before the 
Board for some time and was awaiting further consideration on the basis 
of staff analysis not yet completed. Governor Brimmer stated that he 
had not had an opportunity to examine underlying data on which the pro-
jections contained in the staff study were based. Therefore, he found 
himself at a disadvantage in evaluating the study, and the proposed 
guidelines apparently were based on the study to a considerable extent. 
More specifically, he was concerned that the proposed guidelines might 
Prejudice the New York proposal. Governor Daane shared this concern. 
He was apprehensive that distribution of the documents to the Reserve 
Banks might be construed as reflecting a decision by the Board, against 
which the New York and other proposals would be judged. 

3886 
10/10/67 
-5-
Governor Brimmer indicated that if it was contemplated that 
the study and guidelines would be used as yardsticks against which to 
measure the New York building program, he was not willing to take any 
step that might seem to endorse them at this time. Governor Daane 
likewise noted that he would not want to endorse a set of guidelines 
that would possibly prejudge or be binding upon a program with which 
he was generally sympathetic. He inquired whether, if the study and 
guidelines were distributed, the New York Bank would then be expected 
to submit further documentation in the light of the standards suggested 
therein. 
Mr. Kiley observed, by way of background, that in connection 
with its proposed building program the New York Reserve Bank had 
employed outside management consultants to study the Bank's future 
space needs, particularly in light of the impact of automation. The 
consultant's conclusions differed somewhat from those reached indepen-
dently by the Reserve Bank. Subsequent Board discussion had resulted 
in instructions to the Board's staff to undertake its own analysis of 
future space needs of the New York Bank, and various data had been 
requested from the Bank. In the course of this evaluation it became 
apparent that certain projections and conclusions might be applicable 
to all of the Reserve Banks. Consequently, at Governor Mitchell's sug-
gestion, the staff had initiated a study in an effort to estimate on 
a System basis the size and scope of future Reserve Bank operations. 

SSH7 
10/10/67 
-6-
While the ideas contained in this study were relevant to the New York 
problem, the report that the Division of Bank Operations was now recom-
mending be sent to the Reserve Banks for their information was intended 
to be of use generally throughout the System. He did not anticipate 
that the New York Bank would be requested to supply additional material; 
the staff analysis of its proposal should be ready shortly. 
Mr. Farrell stated that the proposed guidelines had developed 
out of a series of discussions over a period of time as an outgrowth 
of questions raised in connection with the consideration of several 
Reserve Bank building projects. He pointed out that the Board was not 
being asked to approve them, only to authorize their being sent to the 
Reserve Banks for comment. 
Governor Mitchell added that the staff had attempted to analyze 
the principal factors affecting decisions on major construction pro-
grams. He believed the results would be helpful to all of the Reserve 
Banks in determining needs and formulating plans. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the report, which 
represented the best efforts of the Board's staff, would be a good 
starting point from which to receive Reserve Bank reactions. He sug-
gested that the letter of transmittal clearly identify the analysis as 
a staff study. As to the status of the proposed guidelines, he saw no 
particular problem because the transmittal letter identified them as 
such and requested the comments of the Reserve Banks. 
* 

10/10/67 
-7-
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the distribution of 
the study and guidelines would provide a basis for the submission of 
conflicting points of view. He did not see that their availability 
would prejudge how the Board would decide any particular proposal, such 
as that of the New York Bank, yet their availability would afford Reserve 
Banks some guidance in submitting presentations with regard to proposed 
building programs. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he would have preferred that the 
Board first have an opportunity to consider the New York proposal, for 
he felt that the Board would be in a better position to evaluate the 
proposed guidelines after determining how they would apply to specific 
proposals in actual practice. He believed that a decision on the New 
York matter should be made clearly and directly, not indirectly. He 
would agree to the distribution of the proposed guidelines at this time 
only on an understanding that the Board had not endorsed the staff study 
or the guidelines, and that the New York case was not being prejudged. 
Governor Daane expressed himself similarly, saying that it 
should be made clear that the Board had not endorsed either the guide-
lines or the staff study. 
Following further discussion Chairman Martin observed that the 
draft letter clearly sought the views of the Reserve Banks on the pro-
posed guidelines. This would indicate to him that the guidelines were 
not intended as rules that could not be changed. In addition, comments 

3889 
10/10/67 
-8-
at this morning's meeting had made it clear--a point which the minutes 
could reflect--that the transmittal of the study to the Reserve Banks 
for their information and of the proposed guidelines for comment did 
not amount to the making of any decision with respect to the New York 
building program. 
The transmission to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks 
of a letter in the form attached as Item No. 4 was then approved. 
Presidential directive (Item No. 5). Chairman Martin referred 
during the preceding discussion to a Presidential memorandum (copies 
of which had been distributed to the members of the Board) directing 
the heads of all executive departments and agencies, during the period 
until Congressional judgment on the Federal budget was clear, to main-
tain expenditures and commitments at as low a level as possible consis-
tent with the national security and well-being. The Chairman expressed 
the view that, although the directive might not be binding on the Board, 
it would seem appropriate to pursue a course consistent with the objec-
tives of the directive. 
There followed a discussion of the directive in terms of its 
apparent effect on building and other programs. General agreement was 
expressed with the Chairman's position, and with a suggestion that cop-
ies of the President's memorandum be sent to the Reserve Bank Presidents 
with the suggestion that the Reserve Banks likewise observe the program 
outlined therein. Governor Maisel remarked that the directive would 

3890 
10/10/67 
-9-
seem to apply to salaries and other personnel items as well as building 
programs, and Governor Robertson agreed that the directive should be 
taken into consideration in connection with all expenditures. 
Attached as Item No. 5 is a copy of the letter subsequently 
sent to all Federal Reserve Banks. 
Minneapolis building program. In May 1967 the Board informed 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis that it would interpose no 
objection to the sale of the Bank's head office building, as proposed 
by the Reserve Bank, and that it would give prompt consideration to a 
recommendation for the acquisition of property to be used as a site for 
a new building. There had now been distributed a memorandum dated 
October 4, 1967, from the Division of Bank Operations advising that the 
Reserve Bank had been actively negotiating with Knutson Companies, Inc., 
for one of two sites within the Gateway Center Renewal Project. Before 
proceeding further, however, President Galusha sought an expression of 
the Board's views with respect to certain conditions that would be 
imposed by the seller. 
Mr. Farrell stated that Knutson had a contract with the Minne-
apolis Housing and Redevelopment Authority to develop the Gateway Center 
Urban Renewal area. One provision of that contract prohibited Knutson 
from selling land in excess of the price paid the Authority plus carry-
ing charges. However, the contract apparently did not preclude resale 
of the land at a higher figure if the land transfer contract included 

3891 
10/10/67 
-10-
an agreement that Knutson would erect a building on the site for the 
new owner. Knutson proposed to include in a contract for sale of land 
to the Reserve Bank a provision that the Bank would accept Knutson as 
the general contractor for construction of the Bank's building on a 
cost plus fixed fee basis with a guaranteed cost limit. Under the 
terms of the proposal Knutson would convey land title to the Reserve 
Bank upon payment of the cost price of approximately $2.60 per square 
foot, thus complying with the requirement of the city that Knutson not 
make a profit on the sale of the land. Upon completion of the improve-
ment, the Bank would pay an additional amount at the rate of $12.25 per 
square foot. (It was understood that the prevailing price outside the 
renewal area ranged upward from $30 per square foot.) 
The Knutson proposal gave rise to two basic questions: 
(1) 
Would it be appropriate for a Reserve Bank to enter into a contract for 
the purchase of a site that would involve "double" payment? (2) From 
the standpoint of principle, would the Board object to the Minneapolis 
Bank's entering into a contract for construction of a building on a 
negotiated basis rather than on the basis of competitive bidding? 
Mr. Farrell noted that there appeared to be substantial safe-
guards in the form of competitive bidding by subcontractors. In addi-
tion, the Bank would have supervisory and audit authority over the 
bids. On the other hand General Services Administration, upon inquiry, 
had indicated that it had not and would not become involved in a purchase 

10/10/67 
q o 
-11-
arrangement that tied in a negotiated construction contract as a condi-
tion for site acquisition. 
standpoint, expressed the view that the question of the so-called 
double payment did not appear to pose a serious problem. The most 
relevant part of the contract between the Redevelopment Authority and 
the seller (Knutson) was the anti-speculation provision, which was 
subject to several possible interpretations. At her request, counsel 
for the Minneapolis Reserve Bank had discussed this clause with the 
Redevelopment Authority and was told that arrangements between Knutson 
and other companies had been approved similar to the contemplated 
arrangement between Knutson and the Reserve Bank. As an additional 
precaution, however, Mrs. Heller suggested that if the Knutson proposal 
was accepted it would be well to provide in the contract (1) that the 
agreement was subject to approval by the Redevelopment Authority, 
including the payment provisions, and (2) that Knutson would hold the 
Federal Reserve Bank harmless if any liability should arise because of 
the payment provisions. 
Mr. Farrell noted that President Galusha hoped to be able to 
negotiate a price of around $10 per square foot but did not want to 
proceed further until he had an indication from the Board as to the 
appropriateness of the general procedure. 
Governor Daane inquired whether it was clear that a suitable 
alternative site could not be acquired at less than $30 per square foot, 
Mrs. Heller, who had looked into the problem from the legal 

3893 
10/10/67 
-12-
and Governor Brimmer said that according to President Galusha no sites 
were available in the "loop" area regardless of price. Mr. Farrell 
said that a price of $30 per square foot reportedly had been quoted to 
the Bank on a property somewhat removed from the center of the city, 
and Governor Maisel observed that a purchase of developed real estate 
necessitated paying for the buildings as well as the land. 
Governor Maisel stated that he would prefer an arrangement 
whereby Knutson would be paid as a consultant and the construction 
accomplished on the basis of competitive bids. If such an arrangement 
was not possible, he would agree to authorizing the Reserve Bank to 
proceed with negotiations under the conditions set down by Knutson, for 
the safeguards were probably adequate, but he would suggest further 
exploration of possible alternative arrangements. 
Governor Brimmer suggested the possibility of discussion with 
the Redevelopment Authority, in an effort to induce Knutson to relin-
quish its claim for an agreed upon price, transfer title to the land 
to the Reserve Bank, and allow the Bank to proceed on the basis of 
competitive bidding. He was somewhat concerned about the proposed con-
tract and, like Governor Maisel, would favor thorough exploration of 
possible alternatives that would accomplish the same end without expo-
sure to the criticism that might result if the Reserve Bank should be 
authorized to enter into a negotiated contract for construction. 
Governor Mitchell observed that there apparently was not too 
much choice with respect to contractors as there were reportedly only 

10/10/67 
-13-
a few large contractors in the area, of whom Knutson was one. He agreed 
that there would be some possibility of exposure to criticism, particu-
larly in view of the GSA position, and he would have no objection to 
exploration of possible alternatives. However, the potential for crit-
icism might be lessened if the Board, in authorizing the Reserve Bank 
to proceed with negotiations, put in writing all the facts of the matter, 
including the much higher cost that would be involved if the Reserve Bank 
turned to any other location that was nearly as desirable. 
Governor Robertson indicated that he too was concerned about 
certain aspects of the proposal. He noted that in Governor Maisel the . 
Board had a member who was well versed in the intricacies of housing 
and construction problems. He suggested that Governor Maisel be asked 
to go to Minneapolis, review the whole situation, and see what arrange-
ments could best be worked out. 
There was unanimous agreement with Governor Robertson's sugges-
tion. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Brill, 
Solomon (Adviser), Molony, Hackley, Partee, and Sammons then withdrew 
from the meeting. Mr. Shepardson remained and Mr. Grimwood, Assistant 
to the Director, Division of International Finance, was called into the 
room. 
Voluntary foreign credit restraint program. There was a contin-
uation of the discussion that began at yesterday's meeting regarding the 

38p5 
10/10/67 
-14-
voluntary foreign credit restraint program for financial institutions, 
1968, as recommended by Governor Robertson for submission to the Cabinet 
Committee on the Balance of Payments. 
Governor Mitchell commented that his basic preference would be 
to terminate the voluntary program. In all the circumstances, however, 
he would be prepared to go along with a program such as recommended by 
Governor Robertson. The most troublesome factor appeared to involve the 
working out of provisions that would be equitable for smaller banks that 
had little or no latitude for operations under the existing guidelines. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that the proposed program 
reflected careful study and might well be the best that could be devised 
in all the circumstances. In view of the seriousness of the balance of 
payments problem, however, his preference would be to stand still, 
despite the equity considerations, and not provide latitude for banks 
that thus far had no ceilings, or ceilings of insignificant size. (Note: 
The proposed program would provide that a bank whose foreign assets were 
less than 2 per cent of total assets as of December 31, 1966, would be 
Permitted a ceiling of 2 per cent of such total assets if that amount 
was larger than the bank's ceiling under the 1967 program, with the 
Proviso, however, that any bank benefiting from this option must use 
the excess over the 1967 ceiling only for export credits or credits to 
developing countries. The program also would provide that banks with 
no bases could apply for special ceilings up to 2 per cent of total assets 

38P6 
10/10/67 
-15-
as of December 31, 1966, but only to meet prospective needs for priority 
credits originating in their own trade territories.) 
Governor Daane added that Governor Robertson had made a persua-
sive case that the provisions in question were sufficiently tied in to 
the financing of exports to be warranted. However, he (Governor Daane) 
was apprehensive because possibilities for evasion existed. He was 
also somewhat concerned about the appearance, on the surface at any 
rate, that the new ceilings would allow an extension of credit by banks 
in such volume as to offset the gain, in terms of the balance of pay-
ments, of some $600 million that was envisaged by a tightening of the 
guidelines for direct corporate investments under the 1968 program of 
the Department of Commerce. 
Therefore, Governor Daane said, while he would support the pro-
gram recommended by Governor Robertson as a package, he felt quite 
strongly that the net result might be no gain in terms of the basic 
balance of payments problem, particularly if the proposal that the 
exemption for credits guaranteed or arranged by the Export-Import Bank 
or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Association be removed was 
not finally incorporated in the 1968 program. If the Export-Import 
Bank exemption was not removed, he would have a strong reluctance to 
go along with the 2 per cent feature. 
Governor Maisel stated that he would go along with the 1968 
program recommended by Governor Robertson. 

3897 
10/10/67 
-16-
Governor Brimmer referred to plans being considered within the 
Administration for the promotion of exports and said he had been asked 
by Assistant Secretary of the Treasury Knowlton to request that the 
Board keep in mind avoiding any step that would tend to undercut what-
ever plans were developed for export promotion. 
Governor Brimmer also said that he understood the initial reac-
tion on the part of persons within the Government who had seen the pro-
posed 1968 program was unfavorable to the idea of dropping the exemption 
for credits guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank. Governor Brimmer sug-
gested that inclusion of the 2 per cent feature be contingent on the 
removal of that exemption. 
Governor Robertson replied that the recommended 1968 program 
was based on two assumptions. One was that the Export-Import Bank 
would restrict its lending to those cases where the loan, if made by 
a private lender, would be exempt from the interest equalization tax. 
The second was that the exemption for credits guaranteed or arranged 
by the Export-Import Bank or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance 
Association would be dropped. He hoped that the Board would stand firm 
for the program as a package; if the Export-Import Bank exemption was 
not removed, it would be necessary to go back and reconsider the whole 
Proposed program. If the program was accepted as a whole, he would 
have no objection to its being announced immediately if the Cabinet 
Committee on the Balance of Payments so desired. However, if it 

3898 
10/10/67 
-17-
developed that the proposed program had to be changed in any substan-
tive way, he would want the matter to be held up for consideration after 
his return from a forthcoming brief vacation. 
After further discussion Governor Brimmer said that he felt the 
proposed program was a good package and that he would support it whole-
heartedly. 
Chairman Martin commented that the Board should decide today 
whether it agreed on the program as a package. If the Board agreed, 
and substantial changes were then suggested by other parties, the matter 
should be held over until Governor Robertson's return. 
Governor Daane reiterated that he would go along with the 2 per 
cent feature only reluctantly and that his personal preference would 
have been to maintain the status quo. If the Export-Import Bank exemp-
tion was not removed, he would not be willing to accept the 2 per cent 
feature. 
Governor Mitchell stated that it was his understanding that if 
the whole package was not accepted the matter would be considered fur-
ther by the Board. 
Mr. Sammons then called attention to certain relatively minor 
changes that he would suggest in the guidelines of the proposed program. 
Those changes were discussed and accepted. 
Governor Brimmer also referred certain items to the Board's 
attention, and it was understood that his suggestions would be 

II 
3899 
10/10/67 
-18-
incorporated to the extent that further staff review of the guidelines 
revealed a need for amendatory language to cover the points raised. 
Governor Daane noted that Assistant Secretary Knowlton had 
called a meeting this afternoon of a subcommittee of the Cabinet Com-
mittee on the Balance of Payments as a prelude to consideration by the 
Cabinet Committee of the proposed 1968 program. He and Governor Brimmer 
were to attend the meeting this afternoon. He assumed it would be appro-
priate for them to take the position that the program recommended by 
Governor Robertson was the package favored by the Board. Then he and 
Governor Brimmer could report back to the Board on whatever discussion 
occurred. 
It was agreed that the procedure outlined by Governor Daane 
would be appropriate. 
Messrs. Sammons and Grimwood withdrew from the meeting at this 
Point. 
Annex building project. In a memorandum dated October 3, 1967, 
Mr. Shepardson related that he and Governor Sherrill had met with repre-
sentatives of the Interior Department to discuss a proposal devised by 
Governor Sherrill whereby the Department would pay its proportionate 
share of the cost of a so-called north garage under an interest-free, 
40-year amortization plan and cover that cost by imposing a rental 
charge on its employees who used the garage. The memorandum contained 
an analysis of several alternative possibilities for providing parking 

3 9 0 O 
10/10/67 
-19-
space under the annex building and in the proposed north garage. It 
was felt that the combination of a three-level annex garage (315 cars), 
plus a three-level north garage (375 car total, with 125 spaces for 
Board employees) would provide amply for prospective Board needs. It 
was recommended that the Board instruct its architects to proceed on 
the basis of a three-level annex building garage and that an effort be 
made to complete negotiations with the Interior Department for the north 
garage as soon as possible. 
At this meeting Mr. Shepardson reviewed in some detail the alter-
native possibilities, the plan proposed by Governor Sherrill, the reasons 
for the recommended alternative, and the discussion with Interior Depart-
ment representatives. 
In further comments Mr. Shepardson said the plan did not contem-
plate that the Board would charge the Interior Department for garage 
operating costs during the 40-year amortization period. A self-park 
plan was envisaged, and operating costs therefore would appear to be 
relatively moderate. It seemed to him the agreement should contemplate 
the negotiation, at the end of the 40-year period, of an arrangement 
whereby the Interior Department would thereafter share in the cost of 
operating the garage. In this connection Mr. Shepardson explained why 
it had been concluded that a self-park plan would be preferable to a 
plan under which cars were parked by attendants. 

3 9 
n 
10/10/67 
-20-
Governor Robertson inquired whether the plan of amortization 
was tied in to the charges that the Interior Department would make of 
its employees, and Mr. Shepardson replied that if the estimated cost of 
the garage were amortized over a 40-year period, with no interest, it 
would work out that the charge would be roughly $20 per month. He 
added that it did not appear to him that the. Board would want to be in 
the position of renting parking spaces to employees of the Interior 
Department. The agreement should be between the Board and the Depart-
ment, and the manner in which the Department obtained funds to amortize 
its share of the cost of the garage would be a matter for determination 
by that Department. However, the Department apparently was not in a 
position to obtain appropriated funds for this purpose and therefore 
was going to consider obtaining the funds through a rental charge on 
employees. The details were under study by the Department. The Board's 
staff was currently engaged in preparing an agreement that might be 
entered into between the Board and the Interior Department. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether any provision for site cost 
was included, and Mr. Shepardson replied that Governor Sherrill had con-
cluded it would be preferable simply to enter into an agreement with the 
Interior Department whereby the Board would advance the funds for con-
struction of the garage and be repaid under an interest-free, 40-year 
amortization plan. It could be assumed that the advance of the funds 
on an interest-free basis was in lieu of making some allowance for cost 
of site. 

39 (?2 
10/10/67 
-21-
Governor Daane inquired about plans for development of the sur-
face, and Mr. Shepardson replied that the surface would be under the 
control and jurisdiction of the National Park Service. The tentative 
arrangement was that the Interior Department would proceed with plans 
for development of the surface either concurrently with construction or 
as promptly after completion of the annex building project as possible. 
The Department did not envisage difficulty in obtaining funds for the 
development of the surface, and it did not want to include such cost in 
the total figure that would provide the basis for computing the charge 
to employees for parking privileges. 
Governor Daane inquired whether the Interior Department was 
aware that the Board did not plan to charge its employees for parking, 
and Mr. Shepardson replied that the point had not been raised. Governor 
Robertson commented that it should be clear that this was a matter for 
the Board to decide and that care should be exercised to avoid any mis-
understanding by virtue of lack of disclosure. Governor Brimmer added 
that if the point came up and appeared to present any problem, the ques-
tion should be brought back to the Board for further consideration. Mr. 
Shepardson observed that at some stage it would have to be made clear 
that at present the Board was not planning to make any charge on its 
employees for parking. 
Returning to the question of site development, Governor Daane 
inquired whether there would be an opportunity for further discussion 

3903 
10/10/67 
-22-
of plans with the Interior Department, and Mr. Shepardson replied that 
it had been tentatively agreed that the development plans would be 
worked out by Interior with the Board and its architects. An alterna-
tive would be to suggest that the Board's architects develop plans for 
the site, subject to approval of the plans by the Interior Department. 
Governor Daane indicated that he felt the alternative would have advan-
tages . 
In response to a question from Chairman Martin, Mr. Shepardson 
said that he and Governor Sherrill would like to have from the Board an 
authorization to instruct the Board's architects to proceed on the basis 
of a three-level annex building garage, along with authority to complete 
negotiations with the Interior Department for a three-level north garage 
according to a plan under which Interior would pay its proportionate 
share of the cost under an interest-free, 40-year amortization plan. 
Such a decision would mean that the Board's architects would go ahead 
with their plans for the annex building on a basis that contemplated 
the incorporation of a three-level garage and the expectation that a 
three-level north garage would be tied in. 
Governor Robertson commented that it would appear necessary to 
consult the District of Columbia highway authorities soon in order to 
obtain clearance for the exit from the north garage onto 21st Street. 
Mr. Shepardson said that the Interior Department would have no objection 
to exploration of that point. He had asked the architects to refrain 

3904 
10/10/67 
-23-
from contacting the highway authorities until the Board had reached a 
decision on the north garage. Once that decision was made, the archi-
tects would proceed to contact the highway authorities. 
After further discussion the Board authorized instructing the 
architects to proceed with their plans for the annex building on the 
basis that a three-level garage would be included. The Board also 
authorized Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson to endeavor to complete 
negotiations for the north garage with the Interior Department on the 
basis recommended by Governor Sherrill. The Board further authorized 
Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson to propose to the Interior Depart-
ment that the Board's architects prepare plans, at Board expense, for 
the development of the surface, with the understanding that the plans 
would be subject to approval by the Interior Department. 
Mr. Shepardson withdrew at this point and Miss Hart, Senior 
Attorney, Legal Division, and Mr. Keir, Chief, Capital Markets Section, 
Division of Research and Statistics, were called into the room. 
Margin regulations. Pursuant to previous Board discussion, 
there had been submitted with a memorandum from the Legal Division 
dated September 19, 1967, a draft of a proposed regulation to bring 
loans made in the ordinary course of business by persons other than 
banks and brokers and dealers for the purpose of purchasing or carry-
ing securities that are registered on a national securities exchange 
within the purview of margin regulation. There had also been distrib-
uted a memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 

3905 
10/10/67 
-24-
September 19, 1967, recommending (1) that Regulation U (Loans by Banks 
for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks) be amended 
to make margin requirements applicable to listed stocks also applicable 
to bonds convertible into any listed stock, (2) that the margin regula-
tions be amended to require holders of subscription accounts to upgrade 
their accounts from the 25 per cent initial requirement to full margin 
status by means of regular instalment payments over a 12-month period, 
and (3) that Regulation T (Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members of 
National Securities Exchanges) be amended to require that new issues of 
securities other than stocks and convertible bonds be given good-faith 
loan value for purposes of margin regulation and then segregated into 
separate accounts, thus foreclosing the use of swaps from stock into 
bond accounts under the same-day substitution privilege as a means of 
circumventing retention requirements. 
At today's meeting the proposals described in the Research 
Division's memorandum were reviewed in detail by Mr. Keir and the pro-
posed new regulation to apply margin requirements to the purpose loans 
of lenders other than brokerage houses and commercial banks was discussed 
by Miss Hart. 
In the ensuing discussion it was noted that amendments to imple-
ment the proposals described in the Research Division's memorandum were 
yet to be drafted, and Miss Hart indicated that the drafting probably 
would require about a week. Governor Robertson expressed the view that 

OC71 JvJ 
10/10/67 
-25-
all of the proposals should be published simultaneously, and there was 
general agreement on that point. 
Chairman Martin then remarked that all of the proposals involved 
matters that had been given consideration by the Board over a period of 
time. He expressed the view that it would be appropriate now to publish 
the proposals in the Federal Register for comment, and the other members 
agreed. 
There followed some discussion of a question raised by Governor 
Maisel as to the effective date that would be most appropriate if the 
published proposals were later adopted by the Board. It was understood 
that that question would be considered further by the staff and a recom-
mendation made to the Board. 
Governor Brimmer noted that in addition to the current proposals 
the Board had recommended to the Congress the enactment of legislation 
that would permit extending Regulations T and U to over-the-counter 
stocks. There was agreement with his suggestion that attention be 
called to that recommendation in the press release announcing the pub-
lication of the current proposals for comment. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 

3907 
10/10/67 
-26-
Transfers 
Maureen E. Giordano, Secretary, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, to another secretarial position in that Division, with an increase 
in basic annual salary from $5,507 to $5,867, effective October 22, 1967. 
Ann Marie G. Petro, from the position of Stenographer in the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration to the position of Secretary in the 
Division of Research and Statistics, with an increase in basic annual 
salary from $5,096 to $5,507, effective October 22, 1967. 
Change in title 
Lee R. Thompson, from Computer Operator to Senior Computer Opera-
tor, Division of Data Processing, with no change in basic annual salary 
at the rate of $5,331, effective October 9, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Willie Ruth Rutledge, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business October 6, 1967. 
On October 10, 1967, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 
By the Director of the Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Phila-
delphia approving the appointment of Thomas 
Quinn as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve 
Agent. 
6 

3908 
B D A R D C3F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
10/10/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 10, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
State Bank and Trust Company of Petoskey, 
Petoskey, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment by State Bank and Trust Company of 
Petoskey, Petoskey, Michigan, of a branch in the vicinity of the 
intersection of Burr Street and River Street, Alanson, Michigan, 
provided the branch is established within six months from the 
date of this letter. 
In approving this branch the Board has given consideration 
to your bankfs satisfactory management and it has been determined 
that the proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of 
the community without creating any undesirable competitive effects. 
The Board understands that consideration is being given to the 
sale of new common stock in order to strengthen your bank's capital 
position and to provide a sound basis for further growth. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
10/10/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
41. 
RES^ 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 10, 1967. 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Associa-
tion, San Francisco, California, pursuant to provisions of Section 25 
of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Athens, Greece, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1968, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that cite. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Athens. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated cap-
ital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

IjOfCOV^-
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Q F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 D 5 S I 
Item No. 
10/10/67 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 13, 1967. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in further response to your letter of August 1, 
1967, in which you requested information regarding certain 
services offered, or activities engaged in, by State member banks. 
As Governor Robertson stated in his letter of August 10, 
1967 , statistical data relating to these services are not available 
in the Federal Reserve System. However, as'he promised, we 
requested each Federal Reserve Bank to provide, based on the 
knowledge and recollection of its staff, any information available 
on the extent to which State member banks offer the services or 
engage in the activities listed in your letter. Information so 
obtained is reflected in the following general comments on the 
extent to which, if at all, State member banks engage in each of 
these 10 services: 
Underwriting securities, e.g., "revenue bonds," invest-
ment company shares (pooled managing agency accounts). As you 
are aware, the applicable Federal statute, paragraph Seventh of 
Section 5136 of the United States Revised Statutes (U.S. Code, 
title 12, section 24), provides that "The limitations and 
restrictions herein contained as to dealing in, underwriting 
and purchasing for ]_the bank'_s/ own account, investment 
securities shall not apply to obligations of the United States, 
or general obligations of any State or of any political sub-
division thereof," or certain Federal agency securities 
specifically listed in the statute. As a consequence, several 
State member banks, mostly in the New York Federal Reserve 
District, deal in and underwrite general obligations of States, 
counties, and municipalities, and Federal agency securities. 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2- 3913 
39.11 
The Board has taken the position that under existing 
law so-called "revenue bonds11 are not exempt from the limitations 
and restrictions of R.S. 5136, and that, accordingly, it would be 
unlawful for a State member bank to underwrite such securities. 
To the best of our knowledge, no State member bank underwrites 
"revenue bonds." 
With respect to the "investment company shares (pooled 
managing agency accounts)," we know of no State member bank 
underwriting such shares or operating any such pooled accounts 
exclusively for managing agency type accounts similar to the 
pooled agency management account operated by First National City 
Bank of New York and the subject of the September 28, 1967, 
opinion in Investment Company Institute v. Camp (D.C., District 
of Columbia, Civ. No. 1083-66). 
2. 
Mortgage brokerage and servicing. It is common 
practice among banks, particularly the larger institutions, to 
sell to other banks or financial institutions blocks of 
mortgages they have originated and to continue to service such 
mortgages for a fee. The sale of these mortgages may be either 
for the purpose of readjusting the banks' asset position, or 
obtaining additional funds to make new mortgage loans. In 
several instances these operations are performed through a semi-
autonomous division of the bank. 
3. 
Messenger and armored car services. To our knowledge 
there are at least 14 State member banks offering messenger 
and/or armored car services to the general public. 
4. 
Travel Services. Many of the large and medium-size 
banks operate travel departments, although the responses from 
the Reserve Banks seem to indicate that the practice is more 
prevalent in the Cleveland Federal Reserve District than in 
other Districts. There also are some instances where officers 
of State member banks own and operate small travel agencies. 
5. 
Estate and tax planning, including preparation of 
income tax returns. Generally, all State member banks operating 
trust departments, except those with a very small amount of 
trust business, engage in estate and tax planning. Many publicize 
the availability of this service and furnish it without charge, 
but with the expectation that the bank will be named as the 
corporate fiduciary in the estate plan (either as executor of 
the will or as a trustee). 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-3- 3913 
Upon request many trust departments of State member 
banks will prepare or assist in preparing individual income tax 
returns for customers of the trust departments. Generally, 
however, the service is not advertised or solicited and is 
available only to such customers. 
6. 
Insurance , including all forms of fire and casualty 
coverage, credit life, "mortgage protection" plans, disability 
income issued in connection with loans or independently. The 
powers of banks in some States include the power to solicit and 
write certain types of insurance as agent or broker for 
insurance underwriters. As a consequence, it is common practice 
in these jurisdictions for banks, particularly those which are 
active in instalment and mortgage lending, to sell insurance 
either directly or through an affiliate in connection with 
their lending activities. Generally, such banks do not advertise 
or solicit such business but will usually sell and write insurance 
for the general public upon request. Of course, in some areas 
the sale of insurance by bank officers who act as independent 
agents is a prevalent activity. 
We have not encountered any instance of direct under-
writing of insurance by State member banks, but we are aware 
of one State member bank that is owned by a corporation which 
also controls, either directly or indirectly, the stock of three 
companies engaged in the underwriting of insurance. 
We know of no "'mortgage protection1 plans" being 
offered by State member banks. As indicated above, some banks 
sell credit life insurance which could be considered part of a 
"'mortgage protection' plan." 
7. 
Accounting, bookkeeping, or data processing services. 
In order to maximize the use of the relatively expensive electronic 
data processing equipment and, therefore, utilize it economically, 
many of the large State member banks that have such equipment 
directly perform for some of their banking customers bookkeeping, 
statistical, and other similar electronic data processing services. 
Some perform the service only for their correspondent banks while 
others offer the service to the general public as well as to 
governmental units or agencies. 
With respect to "affiliates or subsidiaries" of State 
member banks, you will recall that Congress enacted in 1962 the 
so-called Bank Service Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1861 ff.) 
designed primarily to enable small banks individually not in a 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-4-
3913 
position to own modern high-cost data processing equipment 
nevertheless to benefit from its advantages cooperatively 
through ownership and operation of such equipment by a 
corporation in which banks would be permitted by the legislation 
to hold stock. As a consequence, some State member banks have 
acquired stock in "bank service corporations." The investment 
by banks in the stock of such corporations is limited to 10 per 
cent of the individual bank's capital and surplus. 
8. 
Equipment leasing or lease financing. We are aware of 
at least 18 State member banks engaged in the leasing of personal 
property. 
9. 
Real estate investment other than bank premises actually 
occupied for conduct of ordinary banking business. Mainly because 
of the restrictions of law in many States, State member banks 
generally do not invest in real estate other than that acquired 
for banking quarters or acquired through foreclosure on property 
pledged for debts previously contracted. In the latter case, 
which usually involves relatively inconsequential amounts, State 
law often requires disposal of the property within a stated time 
period. Examiners for the Federal Reserve Banks encourage 
management of the banks to dispose of any property so acquired 
at the first favorable opportunity. 
It is the practice of many banks, particularly the 
larger ones, either directly or through an affiliate organized 
for such purposes, to build or acquire premises larger than 
their existing needs for the conduct of ordinary banking 
businesses and then lease the unused portion to business or 
professional tenants. The purposes for this are either to 
provide for future expansion of banking facilities or to avoid 
the uneconomic construction of small banking quarters on a choice 
and expensive building site, or both. 
10. 
General business or commercial brokerage, i.e., "finder." 
We understand that this activity refers to that type of service 
in which the bank obtains for a customer outside financing from 
a third party or assists in locating a purchaser or seller for 
property or a business. 
Many banks will from time to time, upon solicitation 
by valued customers, assist in placing loans for them, assist 
in effecting contact with outside sources of financing, or 
locate a purchaser or seller for property or a business. For 
example, in discharging their fiduciary responsibilities, trust 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-5- 3913 
/ «., J 
Jt «-Jr 
departments of banks are obliged, on occasion, to find purchasers 
for small family-type businesses. This usually can be accomplished 
simply by alerting appropriate officers of the bank as to the 
nature and details of the proposed transaction. Except in 
unusual cases where the time and effort devoted by the bank is 
substantial, no charge for the service is made other than the 
cost involved, if any. 
As Governor Robertson stated in his earlier response, 
there are differences of opinion as to what activities do or 
do not constitute "banking business," and some of the activities 
you listed are now the subject of litigation. With respect to 
State member banks, it may be noted that paragraph 13 of section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act provides, in part, that "Subject to 
the provisions of this Act and to the regulations of the board 
made pursuant thereto, any bank becoming a member of the Federal 
Reserve System shall retain its full charter and statutory rights 
as a State bank or trust company, and may continue to exercise 
all corporate powers granted it by the State in which it was 
created, and shall be entitled to all privileges of member banks." 
Sincerely yours, 
c^te^teifi^ 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
VJ 

B D A R D D F G C 3 V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 35 
10/10/67 
S-2034 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 13, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
This refers to the Board's letter of April 26, 1967, which 
advised that before acting further on proposals by the Reserve Banks 
for new buildings or substantial additions the Board was asking that 
studies be made on such matters as vault planning, the relationship 
of the activities of the Reserve Banks to the areas served, and the 
size and scope of operations over the years ahead, taking into account 
the effect of technological and other developments. 
The Board was led to this decision by a feeling that the 
System was facing a dilemma: on the one hand there was a pressing 
need for more space that was hindering efficient operations at some 
Reserve Banks; on the other hand there was no assurance that build-
ings planned under current conditions would be suitable for needs 
over a period even as short as ten years. Since the Board's letter 
of April 26, 1967, however, there have been certain accomplishments 
which somewhat ease the problem: 
(1) A report dated May 23, 1967, showing information 
with respect to vault needs and utilization was 
sent to all Reserve Banks, and in the light of 
this report the Board on August 9, 1967, asked 
the Chairman of the Presidents' Conference to 
appoint an ad hoc subcommittee for the purpose 
of developing guidelines covering vault layouts, 
equipment, and procedures that would be of 
assistance both in planning new vaults and in 
more effective use of existing vaults. 
(2) A study by the Board's staff has been completed 
estimating on a System basis the size and scope 
of future Reserve Bank operations. The staff 
study concludes that space needs of the Reserve 

iKy.4 U 
S-2034 
- 2 -
Banks--particularly for check operations—will 
increase substantially during the next few years 
and then fall off sharply. Three copies of this 
study are enclosed. 
Proposed guidelines for Federal Reserve building 
programs have been prepared. A copy of this draft 
is also enclosed, and the Board would appreciate 
receiving any comments your Bank may care to make 
in this regard. 
In the light of these developments the Board believes it 
would be possible to plan new buildings in a way that is flexible 
enough to allow for any future eventuality. The Board feels that 
such flexibility is necessary in building planning at this time, 
and could be achieved by (a) selecting a site that is large enough 
to permit any lateral expansion of vault or security court facilities 
that may be needed in the future; (b) basing the size of the original 
building, including vaults and security courts, on the best informa-
tion currently available; and (c) planning floors above the ground 
level in such a way that varying amounts of space thereon could be 
rented to tenants when not needed for Reserve Bank operations. 
Proposals to meet space needs by additions to existing 
buildings present a more complex problem, because in most cases the 
site limitations and the constraints of the existing building will 
not permit much--if any--flexibility in provisions of vaults and 
security courts. Accordingly, the Board feels that where additions 
are contemplated careful consideration should be given to the alter-
natives of an entire new building at a different location or an annex 
building somewhat removed from the existing building. Therefore it 
is requested that any proposals for building additions submitted to 
the Board be accompanied by information showing the relative advantages 
and disadvantages of the alternatives considered. 
Enclosures 
(3) 
Very truly yours, 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 5 
• F T H E 
10/10/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 10, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
There is enclosed a copy of a memorandum dated October 4, 
1967, from the President to the heads of all Executive Departments 
and agencies directing them, during the period immediately ahead, 
to maintain budget expenditures and commitments at as low a level 
as possible, consistent with the national security and well-being. 
There is also enclosed an explanatory memorandum dated October 6, 
1967 from the Director of the Bureau of the Eudget. 
The Board has discussed the President's request and will 
follow a program consistent with that outlined for Executive 
Departments of the Government, covering not only new contracts but 
also plans for other expenditures such as for personnel. In 
addition, it has directed that copies of the President's memorandum 
and that of the Budget Director be transmitted to all Reserve 
Bank Presidents with the suggestion that they also observe the 
program outlined by the President. 
Enclosures 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Very truly yours 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

the: white h o u s e 
WA SHINGTON 
October 4, 1967 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF 
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES 
Confirming the directive I issued orally at our Cabinet meeting, 
I want you to take immediate steps to withhold and forego every 
possible commitment and expenditure, consistent with our 
national security and well-being, until the Congressional judgment 
on the federal budget is clear. 
As I stated in the Cabinet meeting, 
the House of Representatives last week voted to recommit a 
continuing resolution, with very strong statements by the Republican 
Leadership and the Leadership of the Ways and Means Committee 
that the Executive Branch must meet certain of their demands 
before they would act on a tax bill. 
Until the various Congressional viewpoints on the budget are 
reconciled among different Committees and between the House and 
Senate -- and we hope much of this can be done by October 23 --
it is extremely important during this interim period that we make 
no commitment, obligation or contract, unless it is absolutely 
required by our national security or well-being. 

\ § 
3 R 1 . 9 
B O A R D DF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
10/10/67 
A D O R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 12, 1967 
Mr. Willis J. Winn, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Dear Mr. Winn: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the 
Divisi on of Personnel Administration has approved the request contained 
in your letter of October 5, 1967, for the appointment of Mr. Thomas Quinn 
as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent at the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia to succeed Mr. David Noonan. 
imm 
. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. Quinn 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board 
of Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, 
iuring the absence cr disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a 
acancy in that office, his responsibilities will be to the Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agert and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Alternate 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agent, Mr. Quinn may, with approval of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the President, perform such work for the 
rtank as will not be inconsistent with his duties as Alternate Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agent. 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Quinn is fully informed of the 
importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the 
federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence 
from the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsi-
J-xiLies. 
Please have Mr. Quinn execute the usual Oath of Office 
vhich should be forwarded to the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
