Minutes for August 5, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 
3 
Amendment to Regulation Y, 
Bank Holding Companies. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

1956 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 5, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
1/ 
Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1957 
8/5/71 
-2-
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Supporting staff members of the several 
Divisions also were present. 
Consent calendar. The Board authorized the issuance of an 
order and statement reflecting its action on July 22, 1971, approving 
an application by First & Merchants Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, to 
acquire shares of the successor by merger to The First National Bank 
of Danville, Danville, Virginia. Copies of the order and statement are 
attached under Item No. 1, along with the dissenting statement by 
Governor Robertson. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Hamilton 
Bancshares, Inc., Chattanooga, Tennessee, to acquire shares of The First 
National Bank of Polk County, Copperhill, Tennessee, and authorized the 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by The Suncook 
Bank, Suncook, New Hampshire, to become a bank holding company by acquir-
ing shares of The Hooksett Bank, Hooksett, New Hampshire, a proposed 
new bank, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously the sending of a letter to the 
Federal Reserve Banks requesting that they communicate with all State 
member banks regarding certain improper bond trading practices. A copy 

1958 
8/5/71 
-3-
of the letter sent to the Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 4. 
together with a copy of the letter suggested for transmittal to State 
member banks. 
Bank Holding Company Act: 
insurance activities. With a memo-
randum dated August 2, 1971, the Legal Division submitted a draft 
document, in form for publication in the Federal Register, that was 
designed to synthesize the comments at the Board meeting on July 29, 
1971, regarding the scope of permissible insurance activities of bank 
holding companies and the procedures to be followed with respect to certain 
applications by such companies. The Division's recommendations for 
simplification of procedures for processing holding company acquisitions 
of finance companies, as discussed in the Division's memorandum of July 28, 
1971, were also included, although those recommendations had not yet been 
considered by the Board. 
Today's discussion indicated that there were differences in the 
views of the Board members present with respect to several features of 
the draft document insofar as it related to the proposals for simpli-
fication of procedures. Accordingly, it was agreed that those proposals 
would be held over for consideration at a meeting when additional mem-
bers of the Board could be present. 
After one change had been agreed upon, the Board approved 
unanimously, effective September 1, 1971, the amendment to section 222.(4)(a) 
of Regulation Y , Bank Holding Companies, that would cite certain insur-
ance agency activities as permissible activities for bank holding companies. 

1959 
8/5/71 
-4-
In taking this action, the Board decided not to adopt at this time a 
general regulatory provision regarding insurance underwriting activities. 
It was understood that the staff would make available to the 
Board for consideration a draft of press release, along with a final 
draft of the notice concerning the amendment to Regulation Y that would 
be published in the Federal Register. 
Regulation Z. 
In the case of Ratner v . Chemical Bank a Federal 
District Court in New York had held that under the Truth in Lending 
Act the monthly statement of an open end credit account must show a 
nominal annual percentage rate even if no finance charge was imposed 
during the period. 
In a memorandum dated July 31, 1971, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation expressed the belief that this was not 
required by Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, as presently written. 
Class 
action suits had been brought against many banks on this point and a 
large potential liability existed. 
In the circumstances, the staff 
recommended that the Board publish for comment proposed amendments to 
Regulation Z that would in the future require inclusion of the nominal 
annual percentage rate even when there was no finance charge and would, 
by way of explanation, state that until the amendments became effective 
the Regulation permitted that rate to be omitted in such cases. 
In discussion Governor Robertson said that the adoption of the 
proposed amendments would cure what he considered to have been a 
possible mistake in the first instance in formulating Regulation Z, 

1960 
8/5/71 
-5-
and that he felt the course of action recommended by the staff was 
justifiable. 
After further discussion the publication of the proposed amend-
ments for comment was authorized, along with the inclusion of the pro-
posed explanatory material. A copy of the press release issued in this 
connection is attached as Item No. 5. 
Governor Sherrill joined the meeting at this point. 
Treatment of nonmember banks in regional clearing centers. 
In 
a memorandum of August 4, 1971, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations discussed the question whether or not there should be dis-
crimination between the treatment of member and nonmember banks in con-
nection with the operation of regional check clearing centers. 
There 
were reportedly differences of opinion within System groups that had 
addressed themselves to the question. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta proposed a policy of nondiscrimination in connection with the 
operation of its Miami facility and was anxious to have the Board's 
concurrence in order that it might carry forward its plans to activate 
that facility. 
Governor Mitchell noted that the System Steering Committee on 
Improving the Payments Mechanism had spent some time considering ways 
l n w h i c h a reasonable distinction could be made between the treatment 
°f member and nonmember banks. However, it was recognized that in 
attempting to differentiate, the success and effectiveness of the clearing 

1961 
8/5/71 
-6-
centers might be impaired. The apparent range of possibilities for 
differentiating was covered in the Division memorandum. 
There was 
some feeling within the Steering Committee that the decision should 
be left to the discretion of the people setting up the clearing centers 
in various parts of the country, since it was believed that in some 
places the question was more important than in others. 
Governor Sherrill added that the main point developed by the 
Steering Committee d iscussions was that there were conflicting objec-
tives, both of which were important. 
In response to a question, Mr. Mcintosh said that he was inclined 
to favor some element of discrimination. 
He described a type of differ-
entiation between member and nonmember banks that would be acceptable 
to him and a variant, which he would also find acceptable, that had been 
proposed by the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Collections of the Con-
ference of First Vice Presidents. 
Governor Mitchell then said that if a form of differentiation 
could be devised that would not impair System objectives as far as the 
clearing centers were concerned, he would be inclined to favor it. 
There followed a discussion during which members of the Board 
expressed a distaste for granting access by nonmember banks to Federal 
Reserve services to such an extent that the trend toward erosion of 
System membership might be further encouraged. At the same time, a 
view was expressed that a broad legislative approach to this problem 

1962 
8/5/71 
-7-
would be necessary and that the problem could not be attacked piecemeal. 
The inadvisability of imposing restrictions that would impair the 
attainment of the objectives sought to be achieved by the establish-
ment of the clearing centers was recognized. 
With respect to the possible alternative of allowing different 
criteria to be established for the operations of the individual clearing 
centers, Board members expressed doubt that that would be feasible. 
It 
appeared to them that the development of a regional clearing system 
lacking universal standards would be impractical over the longer run. 
Against this background the problem of the Atlanta Bank in 
regard to its Miami facility was considered further. It was pointed 
out that that problem required disposition promptly and that the Atlanta 
Bank had to a certain extent already committed itself, so that it 
apparently could change course only at the risk of some embarrassment. 
However, a further effort to hammer out a uniform System policy pre-
sumably would require at least several months. 
It was then suggested 
that a middleground approach would be to allow the Atlanta Bank to go 
ahead on the basis proposed with respect to the Miami facility only, 
w i t h the understanding that System personnel would move as rapidly as 
possible to try to work out some type of general policy posture. 
The suggested solution was agreed upon, and unanimous approval 
w a s given to the sending of a telegram to the Atlanta Bank in the form 
attached as Item No. 6. 

8/5/71 
-8-
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, Division of 
International Finance, joined the meeting at this point. 
Relationships with academic community. During a discussion by 
the Board on November 3, 1970, of significant issues that had been 
developed by the Program Planning and Budgeting Committee, question 
had been raised about the furtherance of Board relationships with the 
academic community. With a memorandum of July 29, 1971, Governor Sherrill 
forwarded for Board consideration a memorandum from Messrs. Holland, 
Partee, and R. Solomon dated April 12, 1971, discussing the existing 
range of Board contacts with academics and suggesting other ways in 
which such ties might be strengthened. Guidance was requested with 
respect to continuing the current relationships and undertaking the 
new activities. 
No objection was expressed to continuing the current range of 
contacts, as described in the April 12 memorandum. 
As to the possible new activities, the Board approved 
unanimously the payment of $500 per year to the International Associa-
tion for Research in Income and Wealth as an "international member" 
beginning with the calendar year 1971, with the understanding that 
the 1971 budget of the Research Division was amended to provide for 
such payment this year. 
The Board decided against taking membership in the American 
Association of Collegiate Schools of Business. 

1964 
8/5/71 
-9-
The Board discussed a proposal to provide financial support 
for the sponsorship by the Social Science Research Council's Committee 
on Economic Stability of a Conference on Progress and Problems in 
Monetary Economics. 
Some reservations concerning the proposal were 
expressed. However, a decision was deferred to permit further consid-
eration of the proposal after the Chairman had had an opportunity to 
study it more thoroughly, and to permit participation in the discussion 
by Governor Maisel. 
Voluntary credit restraint. 
In a memorandum dated August 4, 
1971, Governor Brimmer noted that a bill was expected to be enacted 
within the next few days that among other things would require the 
exemption of export credits from the purview of the Voluntary Foreign 
Credit Restraint Program and would preclude the Board from revising the 
Program to cut back individual banks' general ceilings by more than the 
amount of export credits that would be exempted. 
The Board would have 
90 days to give effect to the export credit exemption and otherwise to 
make changes in the Program. 
Governor Brimmer believed that the Board should use the 90-day 
period to formulate a substitute program that would effectively and 
equitably restrain nonexport financing. In the meantime, the Board 
would have to issue a brief statement once the bill was signed to take 
note of the Congressional action, to indicate that within 90 days the 
Board would act to give effect to the export credit exemption and provide 

1985 
8/5/71 
-10-
guidarice on the restraint of nonexport financing, and to ask financial 
institutions to continue to comply with the Program. 
In further discussion certain changes were agreed upon in the 
format of the draft press release that had been submitted with Governor 
Brimmer's memorandum. 
The release of the press statement, when the 
hill in question had been signed by the President, was then authorized. 
A copy of the press release, as subsequently issued, is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1pre 
Item No. 1 
8/5/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST & MERCHANTS CORPORATION, 
Richmond, Virginia, 
f°r prior approval of the acquisition 
of 100 per cent (less directors' quali-
fying shares) of the voting shares of 
the successor by merger to The First 
National Bank of Danville, Danville, 
Virginia. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First & Merchants Corporation, 
Richmond, Virginia ("Applicant
11), a bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent (less 
director's qualifying shares) of 
the voting shares of the succes-
sor by merger to The First National Bank of Danville, Danville, 
Virginia. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 

196 
-2-
and requested his vieWs arid recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of tHe application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
i . 
Federal Register on April 27, 1971 (36 Federal Register 7C75), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved. 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 5, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

196S 
30ARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST & MERCHANTS CORPORATION, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF DANVILLE, DANVILLE, VIRGINIA 
STATEMENT 
First & Merchants Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, 
("Applicant"), a bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition 
of 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares 
of the successor by merger to The First National Bank of Danville, 
Danville, Virginia ("First National"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval 
of the proposed acquisition. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

;j> i 
1969 
-2-
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction . - Applicant, the 
third largest banking organization in Virginia, controls one bank, 
pirst & Merchants National Bank ("Merchants"), which has 67 banking 
offices located throughout the State. Merchants, with aggregate 
deposits of $768 million, has 9.6 per cent of the deposits in Virginia 
a"d is the second largest bank in the S t a t e . A p p l i c a n t ' s acquisition 
First National ($45 million deposits) would increase its share of 
deposits in Virginia by only .6 per cent and would not change its 
ranking. 
First National is the largest of ten banks located in 
Pittsylvania County, a relevant market area, controlling 27 per cent 
°f deposits in the market. The closest office of Merchants to First 
y Banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding 
c°nipany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
M*y 31, 1971. 

I 
1970 
-3» 
National is approximately 65 miles away and competition between this 
l 
°ffice and First National is minimal, with little likelihood of increas-
e s in the future because of the State branching limitations. 
The Board has considered a report of the Department of Justice 
which concluded that approval of the proposal would have an "adverse 
e ffect on competition." The Department recognized there was little 
e x isting competition between Merchants and First National but argued 
t hat acquisition of the largest competitor in the market would eliminate 
e Potential of Merchants entering Pittsylvania County, either through 
novo entry, or by purchase of a small bank in the County. 
Applicant was given an opportunity to reply and did so. 
APPlicant answered the Department's contention that Merchants was a 
Potential de novo entrant into the Pittsylvania market by stating that 
tVi 
e economy of the market is uncertain due to its heavy reliance on 
th 
G tobacco and textile industries, and that there are fewer persons 
P e r banking office in Pittsylvania County than in other areas of the 
S tate. Applicant answered the Department's contention that entry 
trough acquisition of a small or "foothold" bank would be less anti-
c°mpetitive than the proposed acquisition by stating that there was no 
indication that any "foothold" banks were available, or that the Pittsyl-
V a n i a market was attractive enough so that Applicant would enter it 
re8ardless 
of whether its application was denied. 
It should first be noted that although First National is the largest 
•j 
the relevant area, it is not substantially larger than the second largest 

1971 
-2-
hank, and, during the last eight years, First National's rate of growth has been 
considerably smaller than that of the other Danville banks. Moreover, 
there exists substantial competition for First National. As far as entry into 
the market is concerned Pittsylvania County does not appear to be 
attractive for de novo entry. The population of Pittsylvania County 
and Danville, the largest city in the County, has increased by less 
than 1 per cent over the past decade. The tobacco and textile industries, 
which are the two most important for the area, have been stagnant or 
declining, and the administrative headquarters of the largest employer 
in 
Danville has been moved out of the State. Additionally, the number 
o f persons per banking office and the ratio of deposits to banking 
offices in the market area are considerably lower than the Statewide 
average. 
There is little likelihood of Applicant acquiring a smaller 
hank in the Pittsylvania market than First National. There are four 
independent banks headquartered in Danville besides First National. Of 
these four, two are converted industrial loan associations which are 
unsuitable because of their size and inexperience in commercial bank 
Practices. A third bank has indicated little or no interest in affilia-
tion with a holding company. The fourth bank is the second largest in 
the market, with a market share of 21.4 per cent, and its growth rate 
over the recent past has been nearly double that of First National. 
The acquisition of this bank would appear to have similar competitive 
consequences as the acquisition of First National. 

-2-
1972 
Thete are three other independent banks in Pittsylvania County 
which are located outside of Danville. Another holding company has 
already indicated it will seek to acquire one of these banks. The other 
two banks are relatively small, in smaller towns, and are not attractive 
to Applicant at this time. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition and management of Applicant and its subsidiary 
are satisfactory and the prospects of each are favorable. 
First National has satisfactory financial condition and 
management and its prospects seem favorable. These factors are con-
sistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs. - As stated above, Pittsylvania County's 
economy rests heavily on the tobacco and textile industries which together 
account for almost one-half of the total area work force. Both these 
industries have experienced difficulties in recent years, textiles from 
a large increase in imports and tobacco from health concerns. These 
dif ficulties have resulted in the area economy becoming stagnant and 
have increased interest on the part of local people in diversification. 
Several new companies have been brought into Pittsylvania County through 
the efforts of these local people. However, before further diversifica-
tion can be accomplished, a full-scale wholesale banking organization is 
needed in order to facilitate such expansion. Applicant's acquisition 
First National would provide Pittsylvania County with such a banking 
organization through the use of Merchant's extensive experience in the 

1973 
-2-
field of wholesale banking. It is unlikely that First National could 
evolve into the type of banking organization that is needed without 
affiliation with Applicant. These considerations of convenience and 
needs of the community lend support for approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
August 5, 1971 

1974 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I dissent from the majority's approval of this application 
since I feel Applicant has not carried the burden of showing that 
approval would be in the public interest. 
There is no dispute on my part with the conclusion that 
there is little existing competition between Applicant's subsidiary 
First & Merchants National Bank ("Merchants") and The First National 
Bank of Danville ("First National"). However, Applicant's acquisi-
tion of First National, the dominant competitor in Pittsylvania 
County, would foreclose the possibility of Applicant's entrance into 
that market through a less anticompetitive route. 
Alternative methods of entry would increase bank competi-
tion, with obvious benefits to the public. Applicant states that 
acquisition of large organizations is consistent with its operations, 
and that it would not consider other means of entry. It is easy to 
understand Applicant's reluctance to consider these other means, 
which would not provide it with immediate dominance in the market, 
especially in the light of Board approval of applications such as 
the present one. 
Nevertheless, because of my strong belief in the ability 
of competition to advance the public interest, I would require a 
greater showing that alternative means of entry are unavailable. 
Applicant has not made that showing in this case and therefore 
I would deny the application. 

1975 
Item No. 2 
8/5/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C, 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
HAMILTON BANCSHARES, INC.,
 
1 
Chattanooga, Tennessee 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 90,5 
' 
P
er cent or more of the voting shares
 1 
The First National Bank of Polk
 
1 
County, Copperhill, Tennessee.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
, 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
!842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Hamilton Bancshares, Inc., 
Chattanooga, Tennessee ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding com-
pany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 90.5 per 
C ent or more of the voting shares of The First National Bank of Polk 
County, Copperhill, Tennessee ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The Comp-
troller has recommended approval of the application. 

-2-
1976 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 9, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11127), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and manager-
ial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company and fifth largest 
banking organization in Tennessee, controls 9 banks which hold combined 
deposits of $441.6 million, representing 5.9 per cent of the total depos-
it. 
y 
h e l d by Tennessee banks. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 
1970, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board through June 30, 1971.) Upon acquisition of Bank 
(deposits of $12.7 million), Applicant would remain the fifth largest 
banking organization and its control of deposits in the State would in-
crease slightly to 6.1 per cent. 
Applicant also controls 2 banks in Georgia which hold combined 
deposits of $56.8 million. 

-2-
1 9 W 
Bank, which operates one office at Copperhill, Tennessee, 
Is the largest of three banks in Polk County with 60.1 per cent of 
the deposits in the county. Acquisition of Bank would represent 
Applicant's initial entry into Polk County; Applicant's subsidiary 
closest to Bank is approximately 60 miles away from it; Because of 
the distances involved, Tennessee's restrictive branching lax^s, and 
the unlikelihood that Applicant would enter the Polk County market 
i® novo, it appears that consummation of the proposal herein would 
not result in the elimination of any significant present competition, 
nor the foreclosure of any significant potential competition between 
Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries. Although Applicant is acquiring the 
lar 
gest bank in the relevant matket, the limited size and nature of 
the market (each bank is the sole bank within its community) make it 
appear unlikely that competition between existing banks in the market 
will be altered. On the basis of the record before it, the Board con-
cludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
affect competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as satisfactory. 
The major banking needs of Copperhill appear to be adequately served at 
present. Applicant proposes to improve bank services by making its 
trust services and managerial resources more readily available. Thus, 
considerations related to financial and managerial resources as well 
as convenience and needs of the community are consistent with approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in 
the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 

197S 
-2-
'j. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasdns stet forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition 
so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 5, 1971. 
Voting for this action: § Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, and Brimmer, 
Absent and not voting: ?Governors Daane, Maisel, and 
Sherrill. 
(signed) Kenneth A* Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1979 
Item No. 3 
8/5/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
THE SUNCOOK BANK,
 
1 
Suncook, New Hampshire, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
' 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 48 per cent of the voting shares of
 
1 
The Hooksett Bank, Hooksett, New Hampshire,
 1 
a proposed new bank.
 
1 
. . . . 
- - - i 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The Suncook Bank, Suncook, New 
Hampshire ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior approval of action 
Whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 48 per cent of the voting shares of The Hooksett Bank, 
Hooksett, New Hampshire ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the New Hampshire 
Bank Commissioner, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner recotrmended approval of the application. 

1980 
-i-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 19, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11833), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the bank concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served and finds 
that: 
Applicant, a bank with $16.2 million deposits, has one office 
with 1.6 per cent of the deposits in the State, and 25 per cent of the 
deposits in the Concord area. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1970.) 
Applicant proposes to acquire 48' per cent of the voting shares of Bank, 
and directors of Applicant propose to acquire an additional 4 per cent, 
with local residents owning the remainder. Bank, the first to be located 
in Hooksett, a town of 5,300 3 miles south of Applicant, will, in effect, 
• • • ft 
serve as a branch of Applicant. Bank should assume a portion of Appli-
cant's existing business from the Hooksett area. However, this will 
not result in an elimination of existing or potential competition since 
Bank will be a new institution and will cot open except as a subsidiary 

m 
1981 
of Applicant. Based on the tfecord before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposal will have no adverse effects on 
existing or potential competition. Rather, the formation of Bank 
will result in increased banking facilities and competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant and Bank are reasonably satisfactory and consistent with 
approval of the application. 
The development of an industrial park and a shopping center, 
both in the vicinity of Bank, have created the need for additional 
banking services in the area. In vi6w thereof and in view of recent 
Increases in population of the area, considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served weigh in favor 
of approval. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisi-
tion so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 
months after the date of this Order, and provided further that (c) The 
Hooksett Bank shall be open for business not later than six months 
after this Order. The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors ^August 5, 1971* 
Voting for this action: Chariman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, iiaisel, and 
Sherrill. 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

•
i
f 
198° 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
8/5/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 5 P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 17, 1971 
The Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation are planning to call again to 
_ 
the attention of national and State insured nonmember banks 
the inappropriateness of certain bond transactions of the 
kind discussed in the Board's letter dated July 26, 196b 
and to alert the banks to other improper bond trading activi-
ties being practiced by an increasing number of questionable 
securities dealers. 
In light of the reported increase in such activities 
and in the interest of a cooperative Federal supervisory effort, 
it is suggested that a letter along the lines of the enclosed 
draft be sent to the chief executive officer of each State 
member bank in your District, 
Very truly yours, 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 
J 
• 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

DRAFT 
The purpose of this letter is to call again to your 
attention the inapproprlateness of certain bond trading practices 
("overtrading") described in a letter to your bank dated 
„ 
, 1968, and to alert you to other improper 
bond trading practices that have recently been reported. 
The 
incidence of such activities involving both State and national 
banks is increasing, and we bring this matter to your attention 
for whatever action you deem appropriate. 
We have been informed that the municipal bond industry 
has experienced a proliferation of securities dealers who employ 
high -pressure sales techniques and engage in misrepresentation. 
Many of the new firms engaged in such activities select names 
similar to older, more established firms or nationally known 
commercial banks. 
For your information we have attached a list of some of 
J:he types of improper bond trading practices that have come to 
our attention. 

1984 
IMPROPER BOKD TRADING PRACTICES BY BROKERS AIID DEALERS 
1. Encouraging "overtrading" -- Under this procedure, 
a bank owning bonds carried on its books at cost but having a 
current market value below cost sells such bonds at a price above 
the market, usually at a price equivalent to book value of the 
bonds. 
The bank then purchases from the same broker other bonds 
(often of longer maturity and with a higher yield) at a price 
sufficiently above market value to reimburse the broker for (1) 
loss sustained on the bonds sold to him by the bank and (2) a 
broker's fee. The bonds are then recorded at the new "cost" 
(above market value). 
Such transaction has the effect of (1) 
deferring the recognition of loss on bonds sold by the bank and 
(2) placing new bonds on the-bank's books at a price above their 
true market value when purchased. 
EXAMPLE 
Bank A - holds $100,000 of 3% bonds due May 1, 1976 
Book Value 
$100,000 
Market Value 
95,000 
Dealer purchases bonds at 
$100,000 
Dealer sells Bank A $100,000 of 4% bonds due May 1, 1933. 
Market Value 
$ 92,210 
Dealer sells @ 4.00 basis 
$100,000 

Resume 
Bank A - sells a 3% yield and purchases a 4% yield* 
Covers up a market loss and gets new bonds at par. 
Sales Advantage - Improves cash flow from interest by 
100 basis points. 
Dealer - Loss on purchase 
$5,000 
Dealer - Profit on sale 
$7,790 
Dealer's Net Profit 
$2,790 
Deferring losses incurred on the sale of bonds by 
recording bonds purchased at inflated prices is an unsound banking 
practice. When selling bonds the bank should record any gain or 
loss realized based on the actual market price prevailing at that 
time. Moreover, bonds purchased should be recorded on a bank's 
books at actual market value. 
2. Misquoting bond rating, coupon price, maturity and 
yield. 
3 . 
Selling bonds as general obligation bonds when, in 
reality, the bonds may be: 
airport revenue, parking revenue, 
water or sewer revenue, limited tax, or special assessment bonds — 
or obligations of authorities that are not backed by general taxing 
power. 
4 . Misrepresenting firms by posing as a salesman from a 
reputable bank or broker because of similarity of firm name. 

5. "Confirming" sale of bonds to the bank and 
attempting to deliver when the bank had not actually agreed to 
purchase, 
6. Breaking confirmed trades when the market moves 
against them or they are able to sell at a higher price elsewhere. 
7. Selling bonds without possession,then breaking the 
contract when they are unable to acquire the bonds in the market. 
8. "Tailgating" -- Several firms working in conjunction 
on a sale by having the first firm offer at an extremely high 
price, then having successive firms show the bonds at reduced 
prices — misleading customer into believing he is obtaining a 
marked-down value when in actuality the bonds are well above the 
market. 

• 
• 
- 
" '' ;' - - 
1 
' 
I - " - " - 
-;-,;...'.,, 
rf, 
,
,
. 
. rV-^:. 
• 
• 
- 
• 
" 
1 
— 
s ' 
T 
alBreSSis^Sift • p r w ^ w n s t M r ^ ^
 
1' —
' 
•^^sas^ffiBW®^^ 
.-v.. •• rjff'rr 
' t i & i t f i f t f ^ ' ^ v 
^
r
i
J
v
V
-
^
-
•
• 
•"' 
' ' - 
...-^sSm^wSat 
Item No. 5 
8/5/71 
For immediate release 
August 6, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
proposed for comment a change in its Truth in Lending regulation re-
lating to the disclosure of the annual percentage rate in open-end 
credit accounts. 
Comments on the proposal should be submitted to 
the Board by September 15. 
The proposed amendment relates to the content of monthly 
statements that must be sent by creditors to holders of open-end 
accounts--the 30-called revolving charge accounts. At present, Regu-
lation Z does not require the creditor to disclose an annual percentage 
rate on the monthly statement if no finance charge is imposed during 
the period covered by that statement. 
The amendment would require creditors—whether or not a 
finance charge is imposed--to state a rate using the term "corres-
ponding nominal annual percentage rate." 
This would be the rate ob-
tained by multiplying the periodic rate (usually a monthly rate) by 
the number of periods in a year (usually 12 since most creditors 
operate on a monthly basis). A typical example is a charge of 1-1/2 
Per cent per month which results in an annual rate of 18 per cent. 
In addition, the creditor would be required--as at present--
to state an "annual percentage rate" which would include not only the 
periodic charge but also any special transaction fees imposed during 
the period covered by the statement. 

-2-
A creditor could use only one term—annual percentage 
rate--where the finance charge results exclusively from a periodic 
or monthly rate and where any minimum, fixed or other charges do 
not exceed 50 cents per month. 
A copy of the amendment is attached. 
-0-

Item No. 6 
T E L E G R A M 
8/5/71 
L E A S E D W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
August 6, 1971 
KIMBREL - ATLANTA 
Reur letter July 29, 1971, Board interposes no objec-
tion to proposed Operating Circular 13A. This action applies 
to the Miami facility only, and decision is reserved on pattern 
for any other regional check center pending further study, 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
KENYON 

Item No. 7 
8/5/71 
For immediate release 
August 18, 1971. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
requested commercial banks and other financial institutions partici-
pating in the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program (VFCR) to 
continue to comply with the existing program for the time being. 
The Board noted that the Senate-House conferees who worked 
out the final lcngucge of legislation exempting export credits from the 
VFCR made it clear that they intended to allow the Board time to make 
adjustments in the program. 
Their report to the Senate and House 
_ 
states: 
"The conferees recognize that a reasonable period of time, 
perhaps as much as 90 days, will be needed for the Federal 
Reserve Board to work out modifications in the Voluntary Foreign 
Credit Restraint Program reflecting the exemption for export 
credits, as well as any further changes needed to continue the 
program in effect for nonexport financing. 
The conferees intend 
and expect that the banks and other financial institutions which 
arc now complying with the program will continue to do so until 
the necessary modifications can be accomplished by the Board." 
The legislation, just signed by the President, in addition 
to removing export credits from the VFCR program administered by the 
Federal Reserve as a part of the Government's over-all balance of pay-
ments program, also authorizes an increase in Expert-Import Bank 
activities. 
In explaining the steps the President announced on August 15 
to strengthen the domestic and international economic position of the 
United States, the White House stated that no new decision had been 

1991 
-2-
made with respect to the VFCR or the other programs to restrain 
outflows of capital abroad. 
It added that the restraints remain in 
effect and that their future disposition is under review. 
Attached is a copy of a letter being sent to participating 
financial institutions by Governor Andrew F . Brimmer who has responsi-
bility for administering the VFCR program on behalf of the Board. 

1992 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
•
V
W
M
i
e
f
'
. 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
• f ^ u ^ V 
A N D R E W F. B R I M M E R 
M E M B E R 
• F T H E 
B O A R D 
August 18, 1971 
T 0 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
REPORTING UNDER THE VFCR PROGRAM 
Dear Sir: 
At the request of the Federal Reserve Board, I am writing to 
you and other financial institutions reporting under the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program (VFCR) to ask that you continue to 
comp].y with the existing program for the time being. 
On August 17, the President signed legislation which -- in 
addition to authorizing an increase in Export-Import Bank activities --
removed export credits from the VFCR Program administered by the Federal 
Re serve as part of the Government's overall balance of payments effort. 
The conferees who worked out the final version of the legislation made 
l t : clear that they intended to allow the Board time to make adjustments 
the VFCR. 
Their report to the Senate and House states: 
"The conferees recognize that a reasonable period of 
time, perhaps as much as 90 days, will be needed for the 
Federal Reserve Board to work out modifications in the 
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program reflecting the 
exemption for export credits, as well as any further 
changes needed to continue the program in effect for non-
export financing. 
The conferees intend and expect that 
the banks and other financial institutions which are now 
complying with the program will continue to do so until 
_ 
the necessary modifications can -be accomplished by the 
Board." 
In explaining the steps the President announced on August 15 
° strengthen the .domestic and international economic, position of the 
^ited States, the White House stated that no new decision had been made 
vith respect to the VFCR or the other programs to restrain outflows of 
^apital abroad. 
It added that the restraints remain in effect and that 
neir future disposition is under review. 
Sincerely yours, 
"H^V'm.^, vC
1 ^ 
Andrew F. Brimmer 
