Minutes for 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

41 yz 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 3, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Winkler of the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Lynch, Noble, and Plotkin, and Mrs. 
Heller of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Lawrence and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Maguire, Rumbarger, Sanford, and Shuter, 
and Miss Greene of the Division of Supervi-
sion and Regulation 

4193 
12/3/68 
-2-
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 
liabilities of The Farmers State Bank, New Market, Indiana, by The 
First National Bank and Trust Company of Crawfordsville, Crawfords-
ville, Indiana, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comp-
troller of the Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is some competition existing between The Farmers 
State Bank, New Market, Indiana, and The First National Bank 
and Trust Company of Crawfordsville, Crawfordsville, Indiana, 
and the overall competitive effect would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Western Pennsylvania National Bank, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
with William Penn National Bank, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Merchants National Bank of Allentown, Allentown, Pennsyl-
vania, into Continental Bank and Trust Company, Norristown, Pennsylvania, 
was approved for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is no effective competition existing between 
Continental Bank and Trust Company, Norristown, and The 
Merchants National Bank of Allentown. However, there is 
potential for competition between the two banks since each 
could be permitted to establish de novo branches in the 
head office county of the other as well as two other 
counties under Pennsylvania law. While the conversion of 

4194 
12/3/68 
-3-
Allentown Bank's offices into branches of the larger 
Norristown Bank would enhance the competitive capabil-
ities of these offices, there would be no change in the 
concentration of banking resources in Allentown Bank's 
market area and the number of banking alternatives would 
remain the same. The overall effect of the proposed 
merger on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Governors Robertson and Maisel would have preferred to cite 
the effect on competition as adverse. 
Application of State Bank of Michigan (Item No. 1). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated November 26, 1968, from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation relating to the application 
of State Bank of Michigan, Coopersville, Michigan, to establish a 
branch in Georgetown Township. This was one of a chain of banks 
controlled by partnerships headed by Donald H. Parsons and associates, 
the largest bank in the chain being Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit. 
Control of the applicant was acquired by the Parsons interests in 1967. 
The recommendations of the Division of Supervision and Regulation and 
the Legal Division were favorable. 
Mr. Solomon commented that after considerable discussion by 
the staff it was felt that the best procedure would be to approve the 
application but indicate that there would probably be no further branch 
approvals unless the bank's capital position was strengthened. Denial 
of the application on the ground that capital was inadequate would be 
inconsistent with the State's finding, and it was possible that the 
bank would institute legal action. Such a case might be difficult to 
defend successfully. 
if > 

4195 
12/3/68 
-4-
For five examinations prior to 1968 the bank had been con-
sidered a problem bank, but the 1968 examination showed considerable 
improvement in the loan portfolio. Although the bank's capital 
position was regarded as less than satisfactory, this reflected prin-
cipally lack of liquidity, due in large part to the bank's substantial 
holdings of long-term municipal bonds. Little improvement in the 
bank's capital position could be expected from retained earnings, which 
were being drained off in the form of cash dividends and management 
fees paid to the Parsons interests. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had at first recommended 
that the application be denied, the recommendation being based upon 
the heavy volume of classified assets and unsatisfactory capital 
Position revealed by the 1967 examination. At the time the recom-
mendation was received at the Board, a new examination had been 
scheduled. On the basis of information contained in the report of 
that examination the Reserve Bank changed its recommendation, stating: 
The situation remains borderline, but the substan-
tially reduced volume of classified assets and favorable 
active management aspects coupled with the fact that, on 
the basis of State criteria, the bank is strongly capi-
talized, causes this change in recommendation. 
Governor Robertson commented that he could not agree with the 
recommendation. Both the Board's staff and the Federal Reserve Bank 
had found that the bank's capital position was not satisfactory; the 
Reserve Bank also expressed the view that, looking forward, the capital 

4 . 1 9 6 
12/3/68 
-5-
position of the bank was going to get worse, not better. The need 
for the branch did not appear great, and the Parsons group was very 
expansion-minded. In all the circumstances, he felt the application 
should be denied. 
Governor Mitchell agreed with Governor Robertson. Although 
he believed that, generally speaking, the Federal Reserve was on 
rather shaky ground in raising objections in terms of capital inade-
quacy, if it was going to take a position on capital with the Parsons 
group, he thought it should do so now. 
Governor Maisel stated that he concurred with the Division's 
recommendation and would approve. The State authorities had approved 
the application and apparently agreed that the branch would be useful 
to the bank's future position and to the area in question. In those 
circumstances, he did not feel the Board should deny the application. 
Governor Sherrill stated that he would deny. The application, 
standing by itself, was marginal enough that he could have gone either 
Way- 
However, he felt the Board should realize that the Parsons group 
did not intend to respond, except on a marginal basis, to requests for 
capital improvement. 
The application of State Bank of Michigan was thereupon denied, 
Governor Maisel dissenting. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Application of Marine Corporation (Items 2 and 3). There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 

4197 
12/3/68 
-6-
Board's action on October 9, 1968, approving the application of The 
Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of Meinhardt Bank, Burlington, Wisconsin. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
°f the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 2 and 3. 
Application of Charter Bankshares Corporation. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion dated November 20, 1968, and other papers pertinent to the appli-
cation of Charter Bankshares Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, 
(formerly Commercial Associates, Inc., Pensacola, Florida), to acquire 
80 per cent or more of the voting stock of First National Bank in 
Milton, Milton, Florida. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an appropriate order and statement would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration. 
Application of First at Orlando Corporation. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion dated November 20, 1968, and other papers pertinent to the appli-
cation of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Central Brevard National 
Bank at Cocoa, Cocoa, Florida. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an appropriate order and statement would be drafted for 
the Board's consideration. 

4 1 9 8 
12/3/68 
-7-
Forthcoming hearing. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated November 29, 
1968, concerning a hearing to be held on December 9, 1968, by the 
House Banking and Currency Committee regarding the use of Swiss banks 
as a cover for various transactions by U.S. nationals. A staff member 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission was among those who were to 
testify, and one question related to an alleged loophole in the Board's 
Regulation T, Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members of National 
Securities Exchanges, under which foreign broker/dealers carry special 
omnibus accounts with U.S. broker/dealer firms, in which the U.S. 
firms, upon receipt of a "good faith" statement, may extend credit that 
is exempt from the ordinary margin requirements. 
Mr. Cardon reported that he had just received Chairman Patman's 
press release announcing the hearing, which asserted that investigation 
had indicated the use of secret accounts for purposes such as to avoid 
margin requirements and income taxes. The hearing next week was said 
to be only a preliminary inquiry to determine whether there were prob-
lems sufficiently serious to warrant legislative action. 
Mr. Cardon said he understood the principal question before 
the Board this morning was whether, knowing that the hearing might 
indicate that the margin requirements were being avoided through the 
use of foreign numbered accounts, the Board would want to consider 
taking any action. 

4139 
12/3/68 
-8-
Chairman Martin suggested that about all that could be done 
for the moment was to arrange for representatives of the Board to be 
present at the hearing. 
Miss Hart agreed, saying that the Board would not be in a much 
stronger position at this time if it proposed any specific action. 
The problem of tightening the regulation needed more consideration, 
and perhaps what developed at the hearing would give some guidance. 
Miss Hart also said that the SEC staff, in trying to work out 
a position to take before the Committee, would like to have the Board's 
view on whether a Swiss bank was subject to Regulation T, at least 
insofar as transactions in U.S. securities were concerned. The SEC 
staff felt that they would have to respond, if asked, that Regulation T 
does apply to Swiss banks when they are effecting transactions for 
American customers on U.S. exchanges. 
In reply to this question, Miss Hart said, she had agreed that 
there was a strong legal case for saying that when a Swiss bank comes 
into this country it enters the jurisdiction of this country. At the 
same time, there were overtones and policy implications to any such 
Position that the Board might want to consider in a broader than legal 
context. Mr. Sammons had suggested to her that the State Department 
might be consulted. 
Governor Robertson agreed that the problem should be explored 
with the State Department. Then a presentation should be made to the 
Board to enable it to better understand the problem. 

4 2 D 0 
12/3/68 
-9-
In reply to a request from Governor Mitchell for more back-
ground information, there followed a general discussion of the present 
provisions of Regulation T and related matters, including possible 
amendment of the regulation. Governor Robertson then returned to 
Miss Hart's question and expressed the view that the most worrisome 
thing at this juncture was what the Board would say if it were asked 
whether or not Regulation T was applicable, particularly if it were 
obliged to say that the regulation was applicable and yet nothing was 
being done about it. His opinion was that the Board should have some-
thing drawn up to indicate its position if called upon to testify. 
It was agreed, after further discussion, that the staff would 
attend the hearing and would study the problem further with a view to 
making recommendations to the Board. 
Visit by ABA committee. Chairman Martin noted that a committee 
°f the American Bankers Association concerned with the problem of one-
bank holding companies was to visit the Board's offices this afternoon. 
He suggested that the Board's general attitude should be one of seeking 
views from the visitors, with clear indication that the Board had not 
yet taken a position on legislation. Individual Board members could, 
°f course, express their general views on the problem. 
There was agreement that such a posture would be appropriate. 
Bank Protection Act. Members of the Board referred to adverse 
comments that they had been receiving from various banking sources 

4201 
12/3/68 
-10-
concerning the regulations to implement the Bank Protection Act that 
had been published in draft form for public comment. They noted that 
the objections were generally to the effect that compliance with the 
specific requirements in the draft regulations would be costly and 
would not achieve the desired effect in deterring criminal activities. 
It was being urged, in essence, that the regulations be framed more 
flexibly. 
There followed a general discussion of the requirements of the 
statute and the difficulty in establishing the desired degree of 
flexibility while at the same time conforming to the Congressional 
mandate to fix minimum standards. One suggestion made was that, since 
the law required regulations to become effective no later than Janu-
ary 6, 1969, minimum regulations be issued temporarily pending further 
study. Another suggestion was to the effect that an effort be made to 
arrange, through the Federal Reserve Banks, meetings with bank security 
officers to obtain their views. 
Governor Robertson assured the Board that the problem was 
being studied actively by the staff in light of the comments and sug-
I 
/ 
i It. 
gestions currently being received. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary 

4202 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R B 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
12/3/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
December 11, 1968 
yi.. 
Board of Directors, 
State Bank of Michigan, 
Coopersville, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has denied the application of State Bank of Michigan, Coopersville, 
Michigan, for permission to establish a branch at the northeast 
corner of the intersection of Baldwin Drive and 20th Avenue, 
Georgetown Township, Ottawa County, Michigan. 
The Board concluded that although establishment of the 
branch would serve, to some extent, the convenience of the area, 
this is more than offset by the unsatisfactory aspects of the bank's 
loan portfolio and capital position, including the additional burden 
which establishment of the branch would place on the bank's capital 
structure. Although the volume of criticized loans as revealed by 
the August 19, 1968, Report of Examination, had been reduced from 
that shown in the March 13, 1967, Report of Examination, the loan 
Portfolio cannot yet be regarded as wholly satisfactory. 
Analysis of the bank's net additions to capital from 
earnings, coupled with an increased dividend rate in 1968 to date, 
strongly indicates that earnings retention has not been, and is 
not likely to be, an adequate source for needed additional capital. 
In a letter dated November 4, 1968, to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, Chairman of the Board Beasley commented that manage-
ment of the bank is projecting a capital to asset ratio at least 

Board of Directors 
- 2 -
equal to the "national average" by year-end 1969. However, this 
simple ratio gives no weight to the fact that risk is much greater 
in some assets than in others; any determination of capital adequacy 
must give consideration to liquidity demands and the existence of 
different levels of risk in types of assets. 
Very truly yours, 
'• 
_ 
.... 
.. 
, 
..:: 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 2 
12/3/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE MARINE CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
for approval of the acquisition of 
Per cent or more of the voting shares 
o f Meinhardt Bank, Burlington, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
*842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior 
aPproval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Meinhardt Bank, Burlington, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
'^ice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking for 
State of Wisconsin, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
e Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

A O p-t~ 
'i*- uo 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 21, 1968 (33 Federal Register 9228), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
tl»e thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 3rd day of December, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voring for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

42 OG 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No* 3 
12/3/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE MARINE CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
MEINHARDT BANK, BURLINGTON, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
The Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Meinhardt Bank, Burlington, Wis-
consin ("Bank"). Applicant controls 12 subsidiary banks which operate 
1/ 
2/ 
a total of 17 offices 
with aggregate total deposits of $530 million. 
Bank, with total deposits of $8.5 million, operates a single office in 
Arlington, Wisconsin, which is about 35 miles southwest of Milwaukee. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to> and views and recommendation requested of, the Commissioner of Banking 
£ 
0 r the State of Wisconsin. He recommended approval of the application. 
^ 
Included are Germantown State Bank, acquired on June 7, 1968, and 
branch each of Marine National Bank, Milwaukee, and Peoples Bank 
* Green Bay, both opened on March 29, 1968. 
J 
banking data refer to insured commercial banks and are as of 
ecember 31, 1967, unless otherwise noted. 

42i>7 
-2-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any p a rt of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
he substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
Probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served. In each case the Board is re-
tired to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to be 
served. 
Competitive effects of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
inking organizations in Wisconsin, including seven bank holding com-
3/ 
Panies 
control approximately 39 per cent of the total deposits held 
ky a U commercial banks in the State. Applicant, with 6.8 per cent of 
auch deposits, ranks third in size among banking organizations in 
Wic 
sconsin. Consummation of the present proposal would increase 
ba , I n c l u d e s First Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, which became a 
n k holding company on April 10, 1968, and American Bankshares Cor-
*-ation, Milwaukee, formation of which was approved by the Board on 
October 30, 1968. 

4208 
-3-
Applicant's control of such deposits to 6.9 per cent, and its relative 
Position among the State's banking organizations would remain unchanged. 
Bank primarily serves an area within, a seven mile radius of 
its only office, an area which includes the City of Burlington and the 
nearby communities of Waterford, Rochester, Spring Prairie, Lyons, and 
Honey Creek. This area (population 20,000), which encompasses portions 
°f the three counties of Racine, Kenosha, and Walworth, is served by 
f°ur banks with a total of seven offices and $42 million of deposits. 
Bank, with approximately 20 per cent of such deposits, ranks third in 
size among the four banks, and sixteenth in size among 32 banks in 
the three counties. 
The data presented reflect that Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
w°uld not result in any meaningful increase in the degree of concentra-
tion of banking resources at the State level; no change in concentration 
w°uld result in any other area; and no banking alternatives would be 
eliminated. On the record before the Board, it is concluded that the 
Proposed affiliation would not result in a monopoly, nor be in further-
ance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of Appli-
Cant's proposal on existing or potential competition, the Board finds 
that these considerations present no bar to approval of the application. 
Applicant's subsidiary banks closest to Bank are Marine National Bank, 
Waukesha (deposits of less than $8 million), and Oak Creek Marine National 
Bank, Oak Creek (deposits of less than $4 million), located, respectively, 
2 6 miles north and over 24 miles northeast of Burlington. Bank does not 

derive any of its deposits of individuals, partnerships, or corporations 
or any loans from the service areas of Applicant's subsidiary banks, and 
none of Applicant's present subsidiaries is a significant competitor in 
Bank's primary service area. On the record herein, and particularly in 
light of the distance between Bank and Applicant's present subsidiaries 
and the fact that numerous banks are located in the intervening area?, 
it appears unlikely that any significant present or future competition 
between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries would be foreclosed by the 
Proposed affiliation. Further, it appears that consummation of the 
Proposal herein will strengthen Bank's competitive position, particularly 
with respect to the other Burlington banks, without adverse effect on 
the competitive vigor of any of the institutions serving the relevant 
area. 
The Board concludes that the proposed acquisition would not 
substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor in 
any other manner restrain trade in any relevant section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant and 
its subsidiary banks are considered to be reasonably satisfactory and 
consistent with approval of the application. 
Bank's financial condition is regarded as fairly satisfactory. 
X t chief executive officer, however, is approaching retirement age and 
Bank is not prepared to provide successor management. Applicant, with 
established management training program, would be able to strengthen 
Bank's management and provide capable succession. Such improvement, 

4210 
-2-
together with implementation of Applicant's plans for instituting more 
aggressive banking policies at Bank and providing additional services, 
would strengthen Bank's competitive position and substantially improve 
Bank's prospects. 
Considerations related to financial resources, management and 
Prospects weigh in favor of approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - The con-
venience and needs of customers located in the areas served by Applicant's 
Present subsidiaries would not be affected by consummation of the pro-
Posed acquisition. 
Credit needs of the principal industries in Bank's area 
exceed the statutory loan limits of any of the local banks, and in some 
instances even the aggregate of their loan limits, and such industries 
are required to rely on out-of-town banks for major banking services. 
Applicant proposes to enable Bank to meet the existing demand for 
^proved and needed banking services in the community, including a 
response to the credit needs of the larger businesses, access to foreign 
trade advice and service, computer services, credit card and check 
Credit services, and improved physical facilities for Bank's customers. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
immunity to be served provide some additional weight toward approval 
o f the application. 

4211 
- 2 -
Summary and conclusion* - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and In the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
December 3, 
1968. 
