FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
M a Y 6> 
1 9 7 1 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1 1 0 0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 6, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
1/ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes 

i i O i 
5/6/71 
-2-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously the applica-
tion of Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, to acquire the assets 
and assume the liabilities of Trust Company of Georgia Bank of DeKalb, 
Atlanta, Georgia, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 1. 
Unanimous approval was given to the sending of a letter to the law 
firm of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, Washington, D. C., concluding that 
the restrictions of Regulation T regarding the arranging of credit by 
brokers and dealers would not apply to the sale of land investment 
contracts where any credit extended by the seller is solely attributable 
to the purchase of real estate by means of a mortgage. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously a proposal of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation (set forth in a memorandum dated May 5, 1971) 
to modify the Board's order of April 2, 1971, exempting from margin 
requirements certain bank credit extended to PHMFG Corporation, Washing-
ton, D. C., for the purpose of providing capital to F. I. duPont, Glore 
Forgan & Co., a registered broker-dealer. 
(Note: In view of subsequent 
developments, the matter was discussed further at the Board meeting on 
May 11, 1971.) 

1X02 
5/6/71 
-3-
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to its continuing to hold the stock of National City Financial Trust, 
Ltd., after acquisition by the latter of the stock of National City 
Leasing, Ltd., London, England. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
First Union. A memorandum from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation dated April 30, 1971, and other pertinent papers had been 
distributed in connection with an application of First Union, Incorpo-
rated, St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of The First National Bank 
of West Plains. Staff recommendations were favorable, but the Depart-
ment of Justice felt that the competitive effects would be substantially 
adverse. 
There was some discussion of the extent to which the relative 
size of an institution within its market entered into consideration by 
the staff of whether or not a proposed acquisition of that institution 
should be permitted, and of the developing banking structure in the 
State of Missouri, concerning which further staff study was reportedly 
in process. The proposed acquisition was also considered in terms of 
alternatives open to the holding company for expansion into the West 
Plains market, which alternatives were not regarded by the staff as 
attractive. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 

1106 
5/6/71 
-4-
Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
In a memorandum dated May 6, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation commented on provisions of 
the Fair Credit Reporting Act (a portion of Public Law 91-508) which 
would be applicable to financial institutions. 
The stated general 
purpose of the Act, which became effective on April 25, 1971, was to 
assure fair and accurate reporting of information regarding consumers. 
The Division noted that the Act contained no provision for the 
issuance of implementing regulations and that its application to the 
activities of financial institutions was unclear in many areas. Sub-
mitted with the memorandum was a series of questions and answers pre-
pared in cooperation with the staffs of the other bank supervisory 
agencies and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board that would serve as guide-
lines to assist their respective examiners. The questions and answers 
also would be distributed by the individual agencies to the financial 
institutions under their supervision, with the admonition that the 
guidelines were not in the form of a regulation and should not be relied 
upon without advice of counsel. The questions and answers had been 
reviewed by the staff of the Federal Trade Commission, which it was 
understood would issue its own guidelines for those institutions under 
its jurisdiction. 
The staff responded to a number of questions by members of the 
Board regarding the applicability of the law to commercial banks as well 
as Congressional intent with regard to its implementation. 
Other comments 

i ± 0 4 
5/6/71 
-5-
were directed to the extent to which the proposed guidelines had been 
exposed to the views of bankers and consumer-oriented groups, and to the 
budgetary implications of widespread dissemination. 
It was suggested 
that in addition to the distribution by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
the guidelines to State member banks in their respective districts, a 
notice should be published in the Federal Register and a press release 
issued. 
Unanimous approval was then given to distribution of the guide-
lines along the lines suggested. A copy of the press release subsequently 
issued is attached as Item No. 4. A copy of the pamphlet containing the 
questions and answers has been placed in the Board's files. 
Section 4(c)(5) acquisitions. 
In January 1971 the Board pub-
lished for comment a proposal that the scope of permissible acquisitions 
by bank holding companies under section 4(c)(5) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act be limited to lending and fiduciary activities commenced 
de novo, except where the shares involved were of the kinds and amounts 
explicitly eligible for investment by a national bank under Federal 
statute law. 
In a memorandum dated May 3, 1971, the Legal Division dis-
cussed this and other legally supportable courses available to the Board 
and, for reasons set forth, now recommended that the scope of acquisitions 
under section 4(c)(5) by a holding company and its nonbank subsidiaries 
be limited to shares of the kinds explicitly eligible for investment 
by a national bank under Federal statute law, while holding company banks 

1 MM, 
5/6/71 
-6-
and subsidiaries of such banks would be permitted to acquire shares in 
the same manner as member banks not in a holding company. 
Mr. Smith indicated that Governor Robertson had expressed a 
strong preference for the January proposal and had requested an oppor-
tunity to make his views known if it appeared from today's discussion 
that the prevailing sentiment favored the Legal Division's present 
recommendation. 
Preliminary views expressed by members of the Board indicated 
a division of opinion. Accordingly, action was deferred until such time 
as additional members of the Board, including Governor Robertson, were 
available to participate in the discussion. 
Analyzing bank capital. 
In a memorandum dated March 17, 1971, 
Governor Sherrill recommended (1) that a System task force be established 
to study the capital and liquidity needs of banks and to determine appro-
priate methods for appraising those needs, and (2) that one of several 
alternative proposals for a revised form for analyzing bank capital be 
adopted as an interim measure until the results of the task force study 
became available. 
The memorandum recalled that the bank capital analysis 
form developed in 1952 as a screening device for use by System examiners 
(Form ABC) had been the subject of increasing criticism, and that in 
1969 a System committee was appointed to develop an improved form. That 
committee, working within a limited time schedule, had proposed a revised 
form that was subsequently sent to the Federal Reserve Banks for comment. 

1106 
5/6/71 
-7-
Among the alternatives now under consideration were a revised form pro-
posed by the committee that would incorporate suggestions from the 
Reserve Banks and a revised form that would also incorporate suggestions 
of Governor Maisel to meet his concern that the current market value of 
securities should be taken into account when assessing capital require-
ments for market risk in the various maturity categories of securities. 
At today's meeting Governor Sherrill summarized the options 
available to the Board, following which Mr. Leavitt described some of 
the changes in the present form that had been proposed by Reserve Banks, 
as well as the changes designed to accommodate the point made by Governor 
Maisel. Governor Maisel then proposed further modification of the form 
and outlined the type of procedure he believed would be required to 
t 
• 
r 
implement that proposal. 
Question was raised as to the advisability of adopting an interim 
form at this time, as opposed to awaiting the outcome of a System task 
force study. Most members of the Board appeared to find persuasive the 
arguments advanced by the staff in favor of adopting an interim form, in 
view of the time element involved and the pressing need to update an out-
moded instrument. 
It was then understood that the staff should study the matter 
further in the light of Governor Maisel's comments and that the matter 
would be brought back for further consideration by the Board. 

±10? 
5/6/71 
-8-
Governor Daane entered the meeting during the ensuing discussion 
of international developments, for which there was limited staff atten-
dance . 
Mr. Robert Solomon reported on developments in foreign exchange 
markets, particularly with respect to the deteriorating position of the 
U.S. dollar vis-a-vis the currencies of the major European countries 
and Japan. A general discussion followed, during which Mr. Axilrod 
commented on repercussions in domestic markets and the nature of System 
operations that would be appropriate in the circumstances was considered. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

110b 
Item No. 1 
5/6/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
TRUST COMPANY OF GEORGIA, 
1 ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION FOR 
Atlanta, Georgia, 
' ACQUISITION OF ASSETS AND 
1 ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITIES UNDER 
for approval of acquisition of assets 
1 
BANK MERGER ACT 
and assumption of liabilities of Trust ' 
Company of Georgia Bank of DeKalb, 
1 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
1 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (1?. U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Trust Company of 
Borgia, Atlanta, Georgia ("Trust Company"), a member State bank of the 
Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of 
that bank with Trust Company of Georgia Bank of DeKalb, Atlanta, Georgia 
("DeKalb Bank"), by means of the purchase of assets and assumption of 
liabilities of DeKalb Bank. As an incident to the merger, the three 
offices of DeKalb Bank would become branches of Trust Company. No-
tice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been 
Polished as required by said Act. 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on the 
% 
competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
°f the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 

-2-
1109 
Board has considered all relevant material contained in the record in 
the light of the factors set forth in the Act, including the effect 
of the proposal on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
and prospects of the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served, and finds that: 
Trust Company (deposits $475 million) and- six banks (aggre-
gate deposits $284 million) which it controls through its wholly-
owned subsidiary registered bank holding company, hold about 11 per 
cent of deposits held by commercial banks in Georgia and constitute 
the second largest banking organization in the State. 
(All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1970 and reflect applications approved by 
the Board to date, with the exception of the application to merge 
Peachtree Bank and Trust Company, Chamblee, which was approved by 
Board Order on February 22, 1971, and consummation of which was 
stayed by Board Order dated March 19, 1971.) 
Trust Company operates 20 offices within the city limits 
°f Atlanta and one office in Sandy Springs, Fulton County. 
DeKalb 
®ank operates its three offices in unincorporated areas of DeKalb 
c°unty, all within relatively short distances of branch offices of 
Applicant. Trust Company has been affiliated with DeKalb Bank 
since 1954 when its subsidiary, Trust Company of Georgia Associates 
("Associates") acquired 85 per cent of DeKalb Bank's capital stock; 

-3-
it presently owns 89.69 per cent. Executive officers and employees 
have been and are being furnished by Trust Company to DeKalb Bank, 
as well as data processing and correspondent bank services. 
In view 
°f the affiliation, and the fact that disaffiliation appears unlikely, 
it is concluded that present and potential competition would neither 
be foreclosed by approval of the application nor encouraged by its 
denial. 
In light of the above, the Board concludes that consumma-
tion of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on competition 
in any relevant area. Considerations relating to the financial and 
managerial resources and prospects of the banks involved are regarded 
•
•
•
•
'
*
» 
. , 
as consistent with approval. Considerations relating to the con-
venience and needs of the customers served by DeKalb Bank lend some 
height toward approval in that such customers will have more con-
venient 
access to banking services not presently offered by DeKalb 
Bank. Based upon the foregoing, it is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposal would be in the public interest, and 
that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the merger so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 

1114: 
_4-
Order.or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority, 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 6, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
and Daane, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

/ 
1112 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
Item No. 2 
5/6/71 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P 0 N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 7, 1971 
Manuel F. Cohen, Esq., 
Wilmer, Cutler, & Pickering, 
Farragut Building, 
900 17th Street, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 
20006 
Dear Mr. Cohen: 
This refers to that part of your letter of April 9, 1971, 
asking for the concurrence of the Board of Governors in your opinion 
that there is no extension of credit for purposes of Regulation T in 
the sale of real estate investment contracts secured by mortgages on 
the land under the facts set forth therein and summarized below. 
A portion of the investment contracts in question is sold 
by brokers and dealers who are subject to the Board's Regulation T, 
"Credit by Brokers and Dealers". 
Section 220.7(a) of the regulation 
provides in relevant portion, that 
(a) Arranging for loans by others. - A creditor may arrange 
for the extension or maintenance of credit to or for any 
customer of such creditor by any person upon the same terms 
and conditions as those upon which the creditor, under the 
provisions of this part, may himself extend or maintain such 
credit to such customer, but only upon such terms and conditions, 
except that this limitation shall not apply with respect to 
the arranging by a creditor for a bank subject to Part 221 
of this Chapter (Regulation U) to extend or maintain credit 
on margin securities or exempted securities. 
American Agronomics Corporation (Agronomics) is a Florida 
Corporation with principal offices in Miami, Florida. 
It develops 
citrus groves for sale to individual investors. 

ills 
Manuel F. Cohen, Esq. 
- 2 -
The citrus grove tracts are offered in units of five and ten 
acres at a price of $10,000 and $19,900, respectively. 
A purchaser may 
make an initial deposit of approximately 22 per cent, with the balance 
being secured by a real estate mortgage, payable over a period of up to 
ten years. A deed covering the specific acreage purchased is delivered 
to the purchaser. 
Ancillary to such sales of real estate and, in addition to the 
land, Agronomics also offers separate arrangements for maintaining groves 
for investors, and for marketing the fruit. Alternatively, the investor 
may perform these services for himself, or he may contract with one of 
about thirty independent companies which offer such services within a 
50 mile radius of the location of his citrus grove. 
If the investor 
enters into a maintenance and/or marketing contract with Agronomics, 
no credit will be extended to him, but he will be billed periodically 
for the cost of the services as they are actually rendered. 
If a deferred payment purchaser defaults on the mortgage, 
Agronomics has the right to foreclose on it. In the event that the 
proceeds of foreclosure exceed the investor's obligations under the land 
sales contract, he receives the excess. 
Conversely, the investor is not 
personally liable for any deficiency. 
If the investor breaches the 
maintenance and/or marketing contract, Agronomics has no right to fore-
close on the mortgage, but it is left to its remedies for breach of 
contract. 
In view of the foregoing facts which make it clear that 
credit is extended by Agronomics solely in connection with the sale 
of real estate, the Board concurs in your opinion that brokers and 
dealers would not be violating § 220.7(a) of Regulation T if they 
participated in arranging for such credit. 
It should be understood, however, that the Board's 
conclusion is limited to the specific facts presented in your letter 
and that any deviation from such facts may compel a different conclusion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1114 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
5/6/71 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
D F T I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E . 
T O 
T H E 
D Q A R D 
May 6, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter .of April 2, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to 
continue to hold the shares of National City Financial Trust, Ltd. 
("NCFT"), after NCFT purchases all of the shares of National City 
Leasing, Ltd. ("NCL"), London, England, at a cost of approximately 
$240,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of NCL by NCFT is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in NCL if NCL at any times fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if NCL establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
England or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2.) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of NCL as it may require from time 
to time; 

1115 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by NCL be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if NCL were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That NCL will confine its leasing activities essentially 
to the leasing of equipment under leases under which NCL 
will recover the full costs of acquisitions and any 
other expenses expected to be incurred by NCL during 
the lease, and that NCL shall not acquire equipment 
for leasing before the prospective lessee has executed 
the lease agreement. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by NCL in England in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of NCL. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the acquisition will be made with the resources of NCFT and 
will not involve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, 
from the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. 4 
5/6/71 
For release in morning papers 
Tuesday, May 25, 1971 
May 24, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today issued a series of questions and answers to assist financial 
institutions in complying with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (a 
portion of Public Law 91-508). The general purpose of the Act, 
which became effective on April 25, is to assure fair and accurate 
reporting of information regarding consumers. 
The questions and answers were prepared jointly by the 
staffs of the Board, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board, each of which will issue them to institutions under their 
supervision. 
The information is not a regulation of the Board, 
and is merely designed to provide guidance to financial institu-
tions. Institutions that act in accordance with the information, 
however, will be regarded by the Board's examiners as acting in 
compliance with the Act. 
A copy of the questions and answers is attached along 
with the text of the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
