MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 16, 1969 

3 7 6 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 16, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 12:10 p.m. 
PRESENT: 
-Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Ceiling rates. At the request of the Chairman, Governor 
Robertson reported on a meeting of the Interagency Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation that had been held at the offices of 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board late yesterday afternoon. In addition 
to Governor Robertson, who was accompanied by Mr. Partee, those present 
had included Chairman Martin and Mr. Kamp of the Home Loan Bank Board 
and Chairman Randall of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Also present, among others, were Secretary of the Treasury Kennedy and 
Mr. McCracken, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. 
1/ Attended second session only. 

3 7 6 9 
12/16/69 
-2-
Governor Robertson said that although the facts regarding the 
plight of the savings and loan associations were not stated in a 
substantially different fashion than at the meeting of the Board of 
Governors with the directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and the directors of the Home Loan Bank Board on December 3, it appeared 
that Mr. Martin's concern had been growing and he was now more apprehensive 
than at the time of the joint meeting. It developed that the Bank Board 
would now like to authorize savings and loan associations to issue 
two-year certificates of deposit bearing an interest rate of 6 per cent. 
The Secretary of the Treasury expressed no Administration view and spoke 
on both sides of the issue; he wanted to be sure, however, that there 
was no attempt simply to pull funds out of the banks by moving up the 
ceiling rates for the savings and loans. Mr. McCracken, while not 
attempting to influence anyone, appeared more favorable than the Secretary 
to Mr. Martin's position. He commented that since everyone apparently 
was aiming toward eliminating the rate ceilings eventually, this might 
be the time to make some move, although not a move of such magnitude as 
to cause problems later on. 
As to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Governor 
Robertson related that Chairman Randall, who was understood to hold the 
proxy of the Comptroller of the Currency, felt that if changes in the 
rate ceilings were made for the savings and loans, changes also should 
be made in the rate ceilings applicable to banks, and in such a way as 

3 7 7 0 
12/16/69 
- 3 -
to eliminate the current gap favoring the savings and loans and work 
toward parity. 
His own position, Governor Robertson continued, had been that 
both the savings and loan associations and the banks should try to 
live through the tough times that might lie ahead. While there were 
estimates of what might happen by way of withdrawals over the year end, 
there could be no certainty. Further, if the ceiling rates were raised, 
there could be no precise measure of the effectiveness of the action, 
since it would not be known what would have happened had the action 
not been taken. He had told the group that in the judgment of the 
Federal Reserve Board no action on the ceiling rates should be taken at 
this time. If the Home Loan Bank Board did decide to act, he had said, 
the Federal Reserve would have to tailor its own action as it saw fit, 
but he had refused to indicate what he believed that action might be. 
In his view, Governor Robertson said, there was a certain magic 
in offering a rate of 6 per cent and the savings and loan associations 
would enjoy a distinct competitive advantage if they could advertise 
such a rate. It appeared to him that it might be preferable if the 
savings and loans were authorized to offer a certificate paying 6-1/4 
per cent while the banks were allowed to offer a certificate paying 6 
per cent. 
Governor Robertson concluded by saying that there had been 
no firm indication at yesterday's meeting as to whether the Home Loan 

3771 
12/16/69 
- 4 -
Bank Board actually would move or not. Neither had anything been 
said to him about the possibility of holding another joint meeting 
of the Board of Governors, the directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the directors of the Home Loan Bank Board, although 
he understood that such a possibility had been mentioned to Mr. Partee. 
He also understood that Chairman Martin of the Bank Board was writing 
a letter to the Federal Reserve and that that letter would be coming 
over today. He considered it likely that the letter would say that the 
Bank Board had decided it must move and that it was planning to allow 
savings and loans to offer a two-year certificate at 6 per cent. 
In supplementary comments, Mr. Partee summarized information 
that had been furnished with regard to the position of savings and 
loan associations on the West Coast, which appeared quite difficult, 
and also with respect to the position of the Federal Savings and Loan 
Insurance Corporation. It appeared that that organization was not 
currently in a strong position to take over a lot of assets of savings 
and loan associations because it still had a quantity of frozen assets 
in its portfolio from operations in past years and because it had 
substantial losses in its bond portfolio. Mr. Partee added that 
Mr. McCracken had made the comment at yesterday's meeting that it was 
not his feeling that a move on ceiling rates would necessarily be 
regarded as a relaxation of credit policy. 

3772 
12/16/69 
- 5 -
Chairman Martin noted, on the last point, that Mr. McCracken 
had expressed to him the judgment that a move on ceiling rates actually 
might be construed-as consistent with a tightening of monetary policy. 
This was on the basis that if the Federal Reserve thought interest rates 
were coming down it would not raise the ceiling rates, so action to 
raise the ceilings would be a sign that current interest rates could be 
expected to continue for a period of time. 
Mr. Partee added that Mr. McCracken had also mentioned yesterday 
the desirability of stimulating savings. 
Chairman Martin commented at this point that he was planning 
to leave on vacation tomorrow. He went on to say that he had told the 
Chairman of the Home Loan Bank Board that in his opinion a move by the 
Bank Board at this time would be a mistake. There was an understanding, 
however, that if the Bank Board nevertheless concluded that it must act, 
an explanatory letter would be sent to the Federal Reserve documenting 
the case for action. If such a letter was received, the Board could 
meet again later this afternoon. 
In reply to questions with regard to what action he would 
consider appropriate if the Bank Board did decide to move, Governor 
Robertson indicated that he would be inclined to go back to the Bank 
Board and suggest their moving to 6-1/4 per cent, on the understanding 
that banks would be permitted to go to 6 per cent. It was clear 
yesterday, he said, that Bank Board Chairman Martin wanted to maintain 

3773 
12/16/69 
- 6 -
a half-point differential in maximum rates and that he did not 
want to have the passbook savings rate increased at this time. 
If the Bank Board refused to go to 6-1/4 per cent, Governor 
Robertson continued, he felt that the Federal Reserve probably should 
go to 5-3/4 per cent. However, he was not sure that Chairman Randall 
would agree to such a solution, at least without a serious protest. 
There followed a round of comments by other Board members 
during which Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the time had come 
for the Federal Reserve to make clear to the Bank Board that the latter 
did not conduct monetary policy. He would not be inclined to negotiate 
in such a way as to give the Bank Board the impression that it could 
force the hand of the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve Board had 
decided on balance that this was not the time to make any move on the 
ceiling rates, and he would not be prepared to support any move by 
anyone at this juncture. Even if the Bank Board did decide to move, 
he would not change the provisions of Regulation Q (Interest on Deposits) 
at this time. Instead, he would tell the Bank Board that come next 
January, or whenever the year-end results were available, if it then 
appeared that the time had come for a general revision of the ceiling 
rates, the Federal Reserve might be prepared to adopt Chairman Randall's 
Position and establish ceiling rates for banks on a parity with those 
fixed for savings and loans. 

U 
S 
i 
12/16/69 
- 7 -
Governor Maisel felt strongly that it would be unwise for 
the Federal Reserve to exhibit such an attitude. The Federal Reserve, 
he said, should not be the spokesman for the banks in a situation of 
this kind; instead, its first concern must be for monetary policy, 
and on that basis it should decide whether to move or not. The compet-
itive position of the banks must be a secondary consideration. If the 
Federal Reserve got into a position where it was threatening to change 
policy in the monetary field on the basis of the competitive problems 
of the banks, that would be disastrous. 
Governor Brimmer replied that his position should not be 
misunderstood. He saw no need to do anything at this time even if the 
Bank Board moved, but he would let the Bank Board know that when the 
time came for a general revision of the ceilings the Federal Reserve 
would want to look at them from the point of view of the appropriatenes 
of the principle of parity favored by Chairman Randall. 
Governor Mitchell observed that a question of regulatory policy 
as well as monetary policy, was involved. If too great a differential 
was established between the ceiling rates for savings and loans, on 
the one hand, and banks on the other, it appeared to him that the 
resulting flows could not be tolerated very long. Mr. Partee added 
that he believed the banks would be likely to lose a great deal of 
money during the first ten days of January under those circumstances, 

3775 
12/16/69 
- 8 -
but Governor Brimmer indicated that he would be willing to take 
the risk. He thought it had been agreed at the December 3 joint 
meeting that everyone was willing to accept the risk involved in 
withholding action for the immediate future. Governor Mitchell pointed 
out that that agreement was based on a supposition that the Bank Board 
would hold the line. If the Bank Board acted, it was a new ball game. 
Governor Sherrill commented that if the Bank Board took action, 
that would appear clearly to affect monetary policy, and on that ground 
the Federal Reserve might have a right of appeal to the White House. 
Practically speaking, the Federal Reserve would have to react, on 
whatever grounds, if the Bank Board moved, because if too large a gap 
in the ceiling rates resulted, that could be disruptive in a matter 
of days. The Federal Reserve shared a responsibility for the maintenance 
of finely-balanced competitive positions, and if it became a matter of 
ratcheting rates upward the Federal Reserve would run the risk of losing 
> 
control of monetary policy. Therefore, retaliation might not be the 
answer to the problem. 
Chairman Martin then indicated that another meeting of the 
Board would be called this afternoon if the anticipated letter was 
received from the Bank Board. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room 
at 5:20 p.m. with all of the members of the Board present. The staff 

3776 
12/16/69 
- 9 -
members who had attended the earlier session also were present along 
with Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary, and Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant 
to the Board. 
Ceiling rates. There had now been received a letter addressed 
to Chairman Martin under today's date by Mr. Martin, Chairman of the 
Home Loan Bank Board. The letter, a copy of which is attached as 
Item No. 1, indicated that the Bank Board was proposing to authorize 
the issuance by savings and loan associations of a new two-year 6 per 
cent certificate with a minimum balance of $12,500, and a response as 
to the action that would be taken by the Federal Reserve concomitant 
to such action was solicited prior to a final determination by the Bank 
Board. 
In discussion, the staff reported its understanding that inclusion 
of the minimum denomination feature reflected primarily apprehension on 
the part of the Bank Board that otherwise a lot of money would flow from 
smaller accounts to the new certificates, with a resultant higher interest 
burden to the savings and loans. However, it appeared to the staff that 
inclusion of this feature would reduce potential sales of the new certi-
ficates because a person holding $12,500 or more at a savings and loan 
could move quite readily into the market for a better return while 
smaller account holders might be less likely to turn to the market. 
Also, from an analysis of time and savings deposits at commercial banks 
« 
based on the most recent available information, the staff concluded that 

3777 
12/16/69 
-10-
there would be a rather substantial exposure so far as the banks were 
concerned if the new certificate was authorized and no change was made 
in the ceiling interest rates applicable to banks. For example, it 
appeared that a great deal of passbook savings money could conceivably 
be attracted by the rate differential, which would be a full two points. 
In reply to an inquiry, the understanding was expressed that 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had received the same type 
of letter from the Home Loan Bank Board. 
Chairman Martin then asked whether it was the pleasure of 
the Board to send a reply of quite a straightforward nature indicating 
that the Board was still of the opinion that it would be appropriate to 
make no change whatever in the interest rate ceilings at this stage, to 
which it might be added that the Board felt such a move would endanger 
monetary policy at this juncture. 
While there was general agreement with the sending of a letter 
along those lines, some members suggested a softening of the language 
insofar as it referred to the effect on monetary policy of an action 
such as was being proposed by the Bank Board. 
One member (Governor Mitchell) noted that one possibility would 
be for the Bank Board to restrict sales of the new certificates to those 
persons who had accounts in the amounts of $12,500 or more at savings 
and loan associations as of a certain date. If such a restriction was 
not included, it appeared to him that the Bank Board was almost insuring 

3778 
12/16/69 
-11-
that the Federal Reserve would have to make some change in its regu-
lations applicable to member banks. However, he concluded that comment 
along such lines probably should not be included in the reply to the 
Bank Board for the record should not indicate that the Federal Reserve 
was attempting to inject itself that much into the Bank Board's judgment. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, approval was given to the 
sending of a reply to the Home Loan Bank Board in the form attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

{ E S T O N 
m a r t i n 
c h a i r m a n 
FEDERAL 
HOME 
LOAN 
BANK 
BOARD 
W A S H I N G T O N . 
D. C. 
2 0 5 5 2 . 
t o i I N D I A N A A V E N U E . N. W . 
December 16, 1969 
Item No. 1 
12/16/69 
O 
3 
i 
.7 
FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM 
F E D E R A L 
S A V I N G S A N D LC A N 
INSURANCE CORPORATION 
tXOCR-'L SAVINGS AND LC AN SYSTEM 
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL 
The Honorable William McC. Martin 
Chairman, Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This request is based on the discussion at the 
Coordinating Committee meeting December 15, 1969. which was 
attended by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Chairman 
of the Council of Economic Advisers. This Eoard respectfully 
requests a response from your Board as to the action which 
would be taken concomitant with this Board's authorization of 
a single new savings instrument. The exigencies of the ap-
proaching reinvestment period indicate to us that such an 
action must be taken, but it is in the public interest and in 
the spirit of the rate control statutes, as amended, that 
unilateral action be avoided. Therefore, your response is 
solicited prior to a final determination by this Eoard. The 
action proposed is authorizing a new two year 6 percent 
certificate with a minimum balance of $12,500. 
This Board's objective is to reduce the enormous 
outflow of funds and not to change the relative market posi-
tions of commercial banks, savings and loans, and mutual sav-
ings banks. For this certificate to be effective, this Board 
earnestly solicits your cooperation in your establishment of 
any new rates or new instruments pursuant to our proposed 
authorization. We therefore reluctantly accede to the maintenance 
of the "status quo" of existing rate differentials among the three 
classes of institutions. 

3780 
The Honorable William McC. Martin 
December 16, 1969 
Page Two 
Present vindications are toward a $1.5 billion to 
$2.0 billion net savings loss in the December-January period 
for savings arid loans, with corresponding losses in the other 
institutions. Yesterday's discussion produced the consensus 
that saver interest rates generally must be raised at some 
time during the present monetary period. Our System is the 
weakest segment of the financial community. Losses as fore-
cast in savings would likely require us to resort to Treasury 
borrowing for the first time and to special arrangements for 
certain large savings and loans which are projected to exceed 
their borrowing limitations from this System. 
Confidence in the financial community is a fragile 
commodity. It is not in the public interest to impair this 
confidence by "lender of last resort" measures described above 
and with extreme cutbacks in mortgage funds flows. 
Measures 
taken now will not differ materially from those which will be 
taken subsequent to an estimated $4.0 billion loss among in-
stitutions. 
In addition to this disturbing National problem, we 
are witnessing severe savings dislocations :.n major geographic 
areas. One of these involves California-Nevada, where several 
large associations will reach the regulatory ceiling for further 
advances, now 50% of savings. It is our understanding that the 
borrowing from the Treasury and the emergency lending provisions 
to nonmembers of the Federal Reserve Board are to be used only 
for a sh^rt period and with a clear p! an for repayment 
We do not wish to deplete our System reserves to a 
point where it would be necessary to draw funds from the Treasury 
and the Federal Reserve System unless it is absolutely necessary, 
and unless it is for a short period of time with a clear and 
valid expectation and plan for reversal of savings flows and re-
payments of such borrowings. No such turnaround appears likely 
in 1970. We also must be cognizant of and responsive to our 
Charter requirements of promoting thrift and economical home 
finance as well as attending to the viability of the industry 
which we supervise. 

3781 
V 
The Honorable William McC. Martin 
Decerabcr 16, 1969 
|jj]jj Page Three 
We cordially thank you for your early attention to 
this matter and await your response. 
Sincerely, 
Preston Martin 
Chairn&n 

0£< 
BOARD OF* GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , Q. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 2 
12/16/69 
3782 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 16, 1969. 
The Honorable Preston Martin, Chairman, 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board, 
Washington, D. C. 20552 
3 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to the request in your letter of today's 
date for the views of the Board of Governors on a proposed action 
by your Boarc which would authorize insured savings and loan 
associations to issue a new two-year, six per cent certificate 
with a minimum balance of $12,500. 
After consideration of this matter, our Board has 
authorized me to advise you that we are still of the opinion it 
would be preferable to make no change whatsoever in interest rate 
ceilings at this particular time. We feel any such action now would 
risk an upward escalation of the interest rate structure and would 
detract from the atmosphere of credit restraint that is so vital 
to the effort to curtail inflationary pressures and permit resumption 
of an orderly and noninflationary pace of economic advance. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
