MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 14, 1970 

113 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 14, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Marinaccio of the Legal Division 
Mr. Ettin and Mrs. Opper of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Barnett Banks of Florida. After agreement had been reached on 
certain editorial changes in the statement as drafted, the Board 
.authorized issuance of an order and statement reflecting approval on 

H / i 
1/14/70 
-2-
December 30, 1969, of the application of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Barnett Bank of Daytona 
Beach, Daytona Beach, Florida, a proposed new bank. Copies of the 
documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1. 
Messrs. O'Connell, Lyon, and Marinaccio then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Questions affecting Regulations D and Q. There were before 
the Board today for consideration several policy questions relating to 
provisions of Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits, although only one of those questions required an 
immediate decision. 
The question on which a decision was necessary at this 
particular time was whether, and if so for what period, to grant 
additional time to member banks to adjust to the Board's determination 
of October 29, 1969, relating to commercial paper issued by bank 
subsidiaries. 
Pertinent to that issue, although a decision today was not 
mandatory, was the question whether the Board wished to adopt its 
pending proposal, published for comment on October 29, 1969, to apply 
Regulation Q to funds received by member banks from the proceeds of 
commercial paper issued by their affiliates. In combination with such 

11.5 
1/14/70 
- 3 -
action, or as an alternative, the Board could decide to take action 
under the authority given to it in Public Law 91-151, dated 
December 23, 1969, to apply Regulation D to obligations of bank 
affiliates where the affiliate channeled funds to the bank for use 
in its banking business. If the Board should elect to move in the 
Regulation D direction, the further question was whether it should 
adopt an appropriate amendment to that regulation or publish a 
proposal for comment. 
In addition, the Board had to consider what posture it would 
take in discussing possible changes in interest rate ceilings at the 
meeting to be held this morning at 10:30 with the directors of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the members of the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board. 
The total situation also was complicated to some extent by 
the fact that the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
originally scheduled to be held yesterday had been postponed until 
tomorrow, January 15, because of problems encountered by certain 
members of the Committee in returning from Europe due to adverse 
weather conditions. 
For assistance in considering the aforementioned questions, 
the Board members had before them (a) a memorandum from the Legal Division 
of January 7, 1970, on whether the Board should again postpone the 
effectiveness of its ruling that commercial paper of bank subsidiaries 

1/14/70 
-10-
was subject to Regulations D and Q; (b) a memorandum from the Legal 
Division of January 12, 1970, submitting documentation that could be 
published in the Federal Register if the Board should adopt the 
pending proposal to apply Regulation Q to commercial paper of bank 
affiliates and also decide to apply Regulation D to such paper, 
including paper issued by affiliates the control of which is held 
in trust for the benefit of shareholders of a member bank; and (c) a 
memorandum of January 12 from the Division of Research and Statistics 
on the economic issues involved in the application of Regulations D and Q 
to commercial paper of bank-related affiliates. 
The Board members also were furnished copies of a table prepared 
by the staff showing possible consumer-type deposit rate ceilings for 
commercial banks as compared with existing ceilings, as well as a paper 
showing possible large denomi nation certificate-of-deposit rate ceilings 
for commercial banks, again in comparison with existing ceilings. 
Following a review of opinions expressed in discussions earlier 
this week, particularly for the benefit of those Board members who had 
been absent, a number of possibilities were presented and evaluated. 
In the course of the discussion it became apparent that the 
thinking of Board members had moved significantly toward applying 
Regulation D to commercial paper of bank affiliates. There was one 
Su8gestion that the Board act at this time under Regulation D, 

1.1 
1/14/70 
-5-
effective as of such date or dates as the Board might determine. The 
Legal Division had indicated in its January 12 memorandum that such 
action could be defended because the arguments for and against applying 
Regulation D were substantially the same as those applicable to the 
previously-published Regulation Q proposal. At this meeting, however, 
the legal staff expressed the opinion that publication of a Regulation D 
proposal for public comment might be the better course to follow. 
Further, it was conceded that adoption of a Regulation D action would be 
a tightening move in the absence of action to raise the ceiling rates 
applicable to large-denomination certificates of deposit, and there was 
also a suggestion that any Regulation D action should be preceded by 
discussion within the Federal Open Market Committee. For these and 
other reasons, the weight of opinion within the Board was against taking 
action under Regulation D immediately. 
An alternative proposal was to grant additional time to member 
banks to adjust to the Board's determination of October 29, 1969, 
relating to commercial paper issued by bank subsidiaries and at the 
same time to publish for comment a Regulation D proposal concerning 
commercial paper issued by bank affiliates. 
This led to the question whether or not it would be contemplated 
that such an announcement would include a statement that the pending 
Regulation Q proposal had been withdrawn. Some members indicated that 

II Iff 
118 
1/14/70 
-6-
they would not be prepared at this particular juncture to discard the 
possibility of taking action under Regulation Q; on the other hand, 
some expressed reservations about adding a threat of regulatory action 
under Regulation D to the overhanging threat of Regulation Q action, 
especially if the announcement preceded a relaxation of interest rate 
ceilings applicable to large-denomination certificates of deposit. 
There followed a generally inconclusive discussion bearing on whether 
an announcement of prospective Regulation D action would serve to 
stimulate, in the near term, the issuance of commercial paper by bank 
affiliates. 
A further reservation that was expressed grew out of the 
thought that the Board would be, in effect, "locking itself in" for a 
period of time regardless of whatever developments might occur in the 
interim. It was suggested that the preferable course would be for 
the Board to maintain itself in a flexible position, if feasible, so 
that action with respect to commercial paper could follow rather 
quickly any announcement of action to increase the interest rate ceilings 
It therefore became obvious that it would be difficult to 
devise a course of action that would be fully agreeable to all members 
of the Board. In the circumstances, it was noted that the minimum 
action that might be taken today would be to announce a further exten-
sion of the time given to member banks to adjust to the earlier Board 

ill) 
1/14/70 
- 7 -
determination relating to commercial paper issued by bank subsidiaries. 
Alternatives considered in that connection included extension for a 
brief period such as a week or 10 days, an indefinite extension, and 
extension for a fairly long period, one that would not terminate in the 
midst of a Treasury financing operation. The consensus appeared to 
favor an extension of about 45 days, until about the end of February. 
A related question had to do with whether such an announcement should 
include an indication that the Board was actively considering the 
possibility of Regulation D action under the authority given to it by 
the Act of December 23, 1969, and reasons were advanced for and against 
the inclusion of such language. 
The staff was then instructed to prepare a draft of press 
release for consideration by the Board later in the day. 
With respect to the impending interagency meeting, Chairman 
Martin inquired whether it would be correct to begin the meeting with 
an indication that in the opinion of the Board the time had come for 
some action to be taken with respect to the maximum rates payable on 
consumer-type time deposits, and probably passbook savings. Several 
Board members expressed agreement that opening remarks along those lines 
would be appropriate, and there were no negative comments. It was under-
stood that in order to provide a framework for discussion the participants 
in the meeting would be furnished copies of the table in which possible 

120 
1/14/70 
- 8 -
consumer-type deposit rate ceilings for commercial banks had been 
suggested by the staff, and there were indications that some Board 
members regarded favorably the somewhat more modest adjustments listed 
in the table under the Alternative A heading than those set forth 
under the Alternative B heading. 
During today's discussion, reference also was made to the 
January 14, 1970, memorandum from the Legal Division outlining alter-
native courses of action that the Board might consider with respect to 
bank subordinated obligations such as those that had been issued 
recently by a member bank in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Possibilities 
suggested in the memorandum were (1) that the Board might join with 
the other bank supervisory agencies in a statement of policy with regard 
to the advertising of such notes; (2) that it might join with them in 
a statement that such notes would not be regarded as capital for super-
visory purposes unless they had a maturity of a specified number of 
years; or (3) that the Board might offer for comment a proposal to 
modify the exemption from Regulations D and Q relating to subordinated 
notes. 
Certain members expressed the view that prompt and effective 
action should be taken with respect to the subordinated notes. Other 
members appeared to regard the matter as less serious in nature, and 
in any event various preferences were indicated among the courses of 
action outlined in the legal memorandum. 

1/14/70 
-10-
The Board meeting then recessed in order to permit meeting 
with the directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and 
the members of the Home Loan Bank Board. 
The Board meeting reconvened at 12 noon, with all Board 
members present. Staff representation included Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Bernard, Molony, Coyne, Nichols, Partee, Hexter, Sanders, Hersey, and 
Ettin. 
Pursuant to the Board's earlier request, a draft of press 
statement was made available for review. The language of the draft 
went beyond a simple announcement of a further extension of time for 
member banks to adjust to the Board's determination of October 29, 1969, 
relating to commercial paper issued by bank subsidiaries, since there 
was included a statement on suspension of action in regard to such paper 
issued by bank affiliates. 
Some members felt that the inclusion of the additional language 
was desirable on the ground that it would serve to answer questions 
regarding the pending Regulation Q proposal that were certain to be 
raised if no statement was made. They also believed interested parties 
should be placed on notice that the Board was studying the possibility 
°f Regulation D action under the authority contained in the Act of 
December 23, 1969. Other members, however, felt that the additional 
uncertainty implicit in such a statement tended to make its inclusion 

I zz 
1 / 1 4 / 7 0 
- 1 0 -
inadvisable, especially since the Board was not yet in a position to 
make an announcement on adjustment of the interest rate ceilings under 
Regulation Q. 
One member (Governor Brimmer) asked for reconsideration of his 
earlier proposal that the Board grant a further extension of time in 
the bank subsidiary area, announce suspension of a decision on the 
Regulation Q proposal, and publish for comment a Regulation D proposal. 
He doubted the advisability of taking a Regulation D action without 
publishing a proposal for comment, and in his opinion a combined announcement 
of the kind he contemplated would not create too harsh a situation from 
the standpoint of the banks because he fully anticipated action by the 
Board in the near future on the maximum rates applicable to large-denomi-
nation certificates of deposit. 
Several other members expressed reservations, along lines they 
had mentioned earlier, with regard to the advisability of following such 
a procedure, principally because of the lock-in effect that would appear 
to be involved. One member also commented that he had some doubt about 
the desirability of leaving the Regulation Q proposal in suspense for 
arty substantial further period if it seemed fairly certain that the 
Board was going to abandon that approach. 
There followed other suggestions, including one by Governor 
Robertson that the press statement merely include an indication that 

123 
1/14/70 
-li-
the question of using the Regulation D authority now available to the 
Board by virtue of the recent legislation was under consideration, but 
no formulation was devised that developed to be completely acceptable. 
type of statement that had been used previously when member banks were 
granted time to adjust to the Board's determination relating to commercial 
paper issued by bank subsidiaries. He also suggested that the further 
extension be until February 26, 1970, and that Mr. Molony and his 
associates be authorized to handle in their best judgment any questions 
that might be raised as the result of such an announcement. 
There was agreement with the procedure suggested by Chairman 
Martin. 
Attached as Item No. 2 is a copy of the press release issued 
later in the day, along with a copy of the Federal Register notice; 
attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
In the circumstances, the Chairman suggested resorting to the 
The meeting then adjourned. 

l ' c j l 
Item No. 1 
1/14/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 70 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Barnett Bank of Daytona,Beach, Daytona 
Beach, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C, 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 70 per cent or more 
o f the voting shares of Barnett Bank of Daytona Beach, Daytona 
Beach, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
Inasmuch as the proposed new bank is to be a State bank, 
the Board, pursuant to section 3(b) of the Act, gave written notice 
o f receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking of 
In the Matter of the Application of 

1 ^ 5 
- 2 -
the State of Florida, and requested his views and recommendation 
thereon. In response, the Commissioner recommended approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 9, 1969 (34 Federal Register 14189 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
0 r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
Such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority, 
and that Barnett Bank of Daytona Beach be open for business not 
later than six months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D, C., this 14th day of January 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1 2 6 
BOARD of GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BARNETT BANKS. OF FLORIDA, INC., JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
BARNETT BANK OF DAYTONA BEACH, DAYTONA BEACH, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
the acquisition of 70 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Barnett Bank of Daytona Beach, Daytona Beach, Florida ("Bank'), a 
Proposed new bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. -
Because the proposed new bank is to be a State bank, the Board 
notified the Commissioner of Banking of the State of Florida of the 
receipt of the application, as required by section 3(b) of the Act, 
and requested his views and recommendation thereon. In response, 
the Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 

- 2 -
1 : > 7 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking 
in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a 
proposed acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the 
country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to 
create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint 
of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of 
the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In each case, 
the Board is required to take into consideration the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding com-
pany and the bapks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant is 
the third largest banking organization in the State of Florida. It 
operates 17 subsidiary banks which have total deposits of approxi-
mately $560 million, an amount equal to 4.8^per cent of the deposits 
held by all Florida banking organizations.- 
One of its subsidiary 
banks, Barnett First National Bank of Deland (deposits $31 million), 
is located in Volusia County, approximately 23 miles southwest of 
the location selected for Bank. Bank will be established in the 
Daytona Beach area of Volusia County. Applicant's other subsidiaries 
are located 50 miles or more from Daytona Beach. 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, refer to insured com-
mercial banks, and reflect bank holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

l ' > 8 
Because Bank is to be newly organized, there is no existing 
••.. tV" 
competition between any of Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank which 
will be eliminated by the acquisition. Moreover, since Bank will not 
be established unless the application is approved, no potential com-
petition is to be foreclosed. The relevant market within which to 
assess the competitive impact of the proposed acquisition is the 
Daytona Beach market area, which lies in the eastern portion of 
Volusia County and includes Daytona Beach (population 46,500), 
New Smyrna Beach, Ormand Beach, Holly Hill, and adjacent areas. 
Entry into that market by branching of Applicant's present subsid-
iaries is not possible, since Florida law prohibits branching. 
However, Applicant's entry into the relevant market, presently served 
ky 11 commercial banks with aggregate deposits of $193.6 million, by 
establishment of Bank, will tend to enhance competition there, since 
a viable competitive alternative will be added to the market. No 
adverse effect on any other bank in the market is reasonably 
anticipated. 
Because Bank is to be newly established, consummation of 
the proposed transaction will not result in an immediate increase 
n concentration of banking resources in any area. Furthermore, 
n view of the fact that none of Applicant's present subsidiaries 
located within the area which. Bank would serve, some deconcen-
tration would result in that area. Based upon Bank's projected 
deposits of $3 million at the end of its first year of operation, 
significant increase in concentration is foreseen in any of the 
loader geographic areas involved. 

-4-
1 2 9 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monpolize the 
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen com-
petition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
°f the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition, management and prospects are regarded 
a s reasonably satisfactory. These conclusions also apply to Applicant's 
subsidiaries. 
Bank's organization has received preliminary approval of 
the Commissioner of Banking of the State of Florida. Its capital 
aPpears adequate, its proposed management satisfactory, and its pros-
pects favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors, as applied 
t o the transaction, therefore, are regarded as consistent with approval. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Bank 
i s to be located in the Daytona Beach market area and will serve 
Primarily a portion of the market in which, at the present time, no 
°ther bank is located. There is no evidence that the major banking 
needs of Bank's proposed service area are not presently being served 
ky the banks located therein. However, it is reasonably concluded 
that the convenience of residents in Bank's immediate area would be 

I 
-5-
130 
more conveniently served by the establishment of Bank. In addition, 
as earlier noted, residents and businesses in the greater Daytona 
Beach area will benefit from the availability of the competitive 
service of another established full-service organization. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community which Bank would immediately serve and those of the greater 
Daytona Beach area provide some weight toward approval of the appli-
cation. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
January 14, 1970. 

Item No. 2 
1/14/70 
For immediate release. 
January 14, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today that additional time—until February 26-will be given to member 
banks to adjust to a determination by the Board on October 29 relating to 
commercial paper issued by bank subsidiaries. 
Following is the text of a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks 
on this matter: 
act* 
" I h e B° a r d t 0 d a y a d o P t e d t h e Allowing in furtherance of its 
^cions on October 29, November 4 and November 26 concerning the status 
certain types of obligations issued by bank subsidiaries under 
regulations D and Q: 
peb 
"14 Regulation Q. The Board has further suspended until 
S p e d f l V 6 , 1 9 ? 0 , t h e l i m i t a t i o n s o n t h e r a t G of interest that may be 
30 d 
i n coirrnercial P aP e r o r similar obligations with a maturity of 
thatTh ° r m° r e i s s u e d b y a subsidiary of a member bank, to the extent 
°f th 
k° t a l a m o u n t o f s u c h obligations does not exceed the total amount 
ne subsidiary's commercial paper outstanding on October 29. 
Reser 
"2* Regulation D. The Board regards it as appropriate for a 
r e s
 
V G B a n k t 0 w a i v e penalties for member bank reserve deficiencies in 
b T t p e ^ i o d s before February 26, 1970, that result from the treatment 
a*ount ® u b a i d l a r y obligations as deposits, to the extent that the total 
sidi 
« S U C h obligations does not exceed the total amount of the sub-
ary s commercial paper outstanding on October 29. 
tegard 
"3* Mscount.window^ accommodation. The Board continues to 
the d 
3 S aPP r°P r i a t c f o r a Reserve Bank to provide accommodation at 
nati
 1 S c o u n t window for member banks affected by the October 29 determi-
n e ^ ? ' l n ° r d c r t 0 a l l o w s u c h b a n k s a reasonable time to adjust in an 
eri-y manner to that determination." 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEH 
[12 CFR Part 217] 
[Reg. Q] 
Suspension of Rate Limitation on Certain Obligations 
of Bank Subsidiaries 
On October 29, 1969, in conjunction with a notice of 
proposed rule making with respect to "Certain Borrowings by Bank 
Affiliates as Deposits" (published in the Federal Register of 
November 5, 1969, 34 F.R. 17918), the Board pointed out that 
obligations of bank subsidiaries are, under present provisions 
of Regulations Q and D, subject to interest rate limitations and 
reserve requirements to the same extent as obligations issued 
directly by the bank. 
On November 4, 1969, the Bosrd announced measures to 
allow member banks whose subsidiaries had commercial paper out-
standing on October 29, 1969, a reasonable time to adjust to that 
determination. Such time has been extended until February 26, 1969.. 
The following is the text of a letter uo the Federal Reserve Banks 
this natters 
"The Board today adopted the following in furtherance 
of 
its actions on October 29, November 4 and November 26 concern-
ing the status of certain types of obligations issued by bank 
subsidiaries under Regulations D and Q: 
nl. Regulation Q. The Board has further suspended 
until February 26, 1970, the limitations on the rate of interest 
that may be specified in commercial paper or similar obligations 
with a maturity of 30 days or more issued by a subsidiary of a 
Member bank, to the extent that the total amount of such obliga-
tions does not exceed the total amount of the subsidiary's 
commercial paper outstanding on October 29. 

133 
- 2 -
"2. Regulation D. The Board regards it as appropriate 
for a Reserve Eank to waive penalties for member bank reserve 
deficiencies ir. reserve periods before February 2b, 1970, that 
result from the treatment of bank subsidiary obligations as deposits, 
to the extent that the total amount of such obligations does not 
exceed the total amount of the subsidiary's commercial paper out-
standing on October 29. 
"3. Discount window accommodation. The Board continues 
to regard it as appropriate for a Reserve Bank to provide accommo-
dation at the discount window for member banks affected by the 
October 29 determination, in order to allow such banks a reasonable 
time to adjust In an orderly manner to that determination." 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 14, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

134 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
1/14/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 16, 1970 
Dear Sir: 
On January 14 the Board adopted the following in furtherance of its 
actions on October 29, November 4 and November 26 concerning the status 
°f certain types of obligations issued by bank subsidiaries under 
Regulations D and Q: 
Regulation Q. The Board has further suspended until 
February 26, 1970, the limitations on the rate of interest that may be 
specified in commercial paper or similar obligations with a maturity of 
days or more issued by a subsidiary of a member bank, to the extent 
tnat the total amount of such obligations does not exceed the total amount 
the subsidiary's commercial paper outstanding on October 29. 
R 
2. Regulation D. The Board regards it as appropriate for a 
eserve Bank to waive penalties for member bank reserve deficiencies in 
reserve periods before February 26, 1970, that result from the treatment 
o f bank subsidiary obligations as deposits, to the extent that the total 
amount of such obligations does not exceed the total amount of the sub-
sidiary's commercial paper outstanding on October ..29. 
3. Dis count window accommodation. The Board continues to 
regard it as appropriate for a Reserve Bank to provide accommodation at 
*e discount window for member banks affected by the October 29 determi-
ation, in order to allow such banks a reasonable time to adjust in an 
rderly manner to that determination. 
Very truly yours, 
// c 
/ ^ ^ 
i JL 
Normand Bernard, 
Assistant Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
