Minutes for 
November 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4 1 a t 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, November 1, 1967. The Board met in the 
Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Shull, Cleaver, Greenspun, and Lawrence 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Maroni of the Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Lyon, McClintock, and Poundstone of the 
Division of Examinations 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 

411)7 
11/1/67 
-2-
made available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under 
the respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
1 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
2 
Banks regarding bank holding company and bank 
merger application forms. 
Report on competitive factors (Item No. 3). There had been 
distributed a proposed report to the Comptroller of the Currency on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets 
and assumption of liabilities of The Commercial and Savings Bank of 
Augusta, Augusta, Georgia, by The Citizens and Southern National Bank, 
Savannah, Georgia. The conclusion of the report would read as follows: 
In view of the close relationship which has existed 
since 1965 between The Commercial and Savings Bank of 
Augusta, Augusta, and The Citizens and Southern National 
Bank, Savannah, no effective competition exists between 
them. Consummation of the proposed transaction would 
foreclose permanently potential for competition between 
them in the event the close relationship were terminated. 
Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be slightly adverse. 
The draft report was submitted with a memorandum dated 
October 30, 1967, from the Division of Examinations, in which it was 
pointed out that in 1965 Citizens and Southern Holding Company, wholly 
owned by The Citizens and Southern National Bank, acquired a 5 per cent 

419S 
11/1/67 
-3-
interest in The Commercial and Savings Bank of Augusta. At that time 
certain officers, employees, and directors of Citizens and Southern 
National Bank, members of the Advisory Board of the bank's Augusta 
branch, and other interested persons also purchased stock of Commer-
cial and Savings Bank. The merger application stated that the Augusta 
bank was run by management trained and hired by Citizens and Southern 
National Bank and responsive to the latter bank's broad policy deci-
sions. The application further stated that Commercial and Savings 
Bank would not exist and could not continue in its present form were 
it not for the aid and assistance available from Citizens and Southern 
National. 
The Division suggested that the letter transmitting the report 
to the Comptroller point out that a bank holding company may acquire 
up to 5 per cent of the voting shares of a bank without prior approval 
of the Board and that such a bank is not a subsidiary within the mean-
ing of the Bank Holding Company Act as amended; that, however, under 
1966 amendments to the Act it is unlawful, except with the Board's 
prior approval, for any action to be taken that causes a bank to become 
a subsidiary of a bank holding company; and that the term "subsidiary" 
is defined, in part, as any company the election of a majority of whose 
directors is controlled in any manner by such bank holding company. 
The proposed letter would then state that the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta had been asked to determine, if possible, the extent to which 

4 1 9 < ) 
11/1/67 
-4-
Citizens and Southern Holding Company in fact had controlled the elec-
tion of a majority of directors of Commercial and Savings Bank, and 
that efforts were also being made to ascertain if there existed a 
direct or indirect ownership or control by Citizens and Southern Hold-
ing Company of the stock of Commercial and Savings Bank other than, 
and in addition to, the 5 per cent of the bank's stock known to be 
owned by the holding company. It would be noted that at this time the 
Board could not state with certainty the time that would be required 
to pursue these inquiries, nor did the Board have evidence to indicate 
violations of the types mentioned, but that the Comptroller was being 
apprised to the situation for consideration in his determination of the 
pending merger application. 
Also distributed was a memorandum dated October 31, 1967, from 
the Banking Markets Section expressing the view that "If the close 
relationship that exists between the two institutions is taken as given, 
the merger would have no adverse effect upon competition because the 
two banks are not presently competing with one another. However, with-
out the close relationship, the merger would be considered to have an 
adverse effect upon competition in the relevant banking market." 
Governor Brimmer commented that he agreed with the finding by 
the Banking Markets Section. Absent the prior association the effect 
of the merger on competition would be more than slightly adverse. He 
thought it would be well to put the Comptroller on notice, and appar-
ently that was the purpose of the transmittal letter. 

4S200 
11/1/67 
-5-
Mr. O'Connell pointed out that the transmittal letter had been 
chosen as the vehicle of notifying the Comptroller of the Board's 
intent to investigate the situation because copies of reports on com-
petitive factors were customarily made available to applicants. 
Governor Mitchell likewise expressed the view that the conclu-
sion of the draft report was weak. Lack of competition was attribut-
able only to the control of the Augusta bank exercised by Citizens and 
Southern, and the policy under which such control was exercised had 
far more than slightly adverse implications. He suggested that the 
transmittal letter make it clear that anti-competitive policies were 
involved in the practices of Citizens and Southern exemplified by this 
case. 
Governor Maisel commented that if it should be found that con-
trol of Commercial and Savings Bank involved an illegality and if 
correction was required, the situation as stated in the draft of com-
petitive factor report would be changed and the conclusion would not 
follow. 
Governor Mitchell noted that if the control of the Augusta 
bank involved a violation of the Bank Holding Company Act the illegal-
ity could be removed by consummation of the proposed merger. Following 
such merger, it would be too late for remedial action to be taken. 
That point, he felt, should be made clear to the Comptroller. 
Mr. O'Connell described conferences the Board's staff had had 
with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta regarding the means of obtaining 

4201 
11/1/67 
-6-
informatiori necessary to resolve the question. A principal source of 
information would be the next examination report. However, scheduling 
problems regarding the examination of Citizens and Southern National 
by the Comptroller's staff made it uncertain how soon the report of 
that examination would be available. Therefore, the Legal Division 
had not recommended that the Comptroller be asked to defer his decision 
awaiting the outcome of the investigation. 
There ensued a discussion of the possible alternative of send-
ing Federal Reserve examiners into the national bank for the purpose 
of making a special investigation. 
0 
Governors Mitchell and Brimmer then suggested that the Comp-
troller be requested to defer his decision on the merger application 
until the results of the inquiry under the Bank Holding Company Act 
were available. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that if the Board's com-
petitive factor report held that the proposed merger would have only a 
slightly adverse effect, the same finding apparently would have to be 
made if Citizens and Southern sought to merge any one of a number of 
other banks in which its holding company held only a minority interest. 
He believed that the word "slightly" gave a false color to the whole 
report. He agreed that the investigation should go forward in the 
most expeditious manner--through examination by the Comptroller's staff 
if that could be scheduled at an early date, or through sending in Fed-
eral Reserve representatives. 

4202 
11/1/67 
-7-
Governor Maisel then raised the question whether, aside from 
the possibility of violation of the Bank Holding Company Act, there 
were not also questions present relating to the antitrust statutes. 
He asked if such statutes would not preclude a bank holding company 
from achieving a monopoly position through control of banks in a given 
community; if so, it did not seem reasonable that such a position, if 
obtained, could be claimed as support for a merger on the ground that 
there was no competition between the controlled banks. He felt that 
the language of the competitive factor report should be reviewed in 
that light. 
Further discussion resulted in agreement upon a change in the 
wording of the first paragraph of the conclusion and deletion of the 
word "slightly" in the second paragraph. It was also agreed that the 
text of the report should be strengthened by the addition of material 
from the Banking Markets Section's analysis, and that the transmittal 
letter should suggest that the Comptroller delay his decision on the 
proposed merger pending the availability of the results of the inquiry 
being undertaken by the Federal Reserve. 
The report was then approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
In view of the close relationship which has existed 
since 1965 between The Commercial and Savings Bank of 
Augusta, Augusta, and The Citizens and Southern National 
Bank, Savannah, no effective competition exists between 
them. Consummation of the proposed transaction would 
foreclose permanently potential for competition between 
them. 

4 2 0 3 
11/1/67 
-8-
Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be adverse. 
Unanimous approval was given also to a letter to the Comptrol-
ler of the Currency in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed con-
solidation of The First National Bank of Vista, Vista, California, and 
Golden Gate National Bank, San Francisco, California, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion stated 
that the proposed consolidation would have no adverse effects upon 
competition. 
Messrs. O'Connell, Shay, Egertson, Cleaver, Greenspun, Lawrence, 
Shull, Lyon, McClintock, and Pounds tone then withdrew from the meeting. 
Gold loans to Colombia (Items 4 and 5). At yesterday's meeting 
the Board discussed a draft of reply to inquiry from Senator Morse, 
Chairman of the Subcommittee on American Republics Affairs of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, regarding Federal Reserve gold 
loans to Colombia since 1961. The Subcommittee was conducting an 
investigation of AID lending in Colombia, and it was understood that 
the results of the study would be published. Discussion at yesterday's 
meeting centered principally on making a responsive reply to the Subcom-
mittee based on the record, while being careful to avoid language sub-
ject to possible misinterpretation. At the conclusion of the discussion 
a decision was deferred until today to permit further study of the draft 
by Governors Daane and Brimmer. 

42o4 
11/1/67 
-9-
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated October 31 
from Mr. Solomon (Adviser) describing changes suggested by Governor 
Brimmer in the attachment to the proposed reply discussing the circum-
stances surrounding the eight gold loans made to Colombia since 1961. 
Governor Brimmer explained that his primary objective had been 
to de-emphasize certain political references that seemed unnecessary. 
With the changes he had suggested, he found the reply acceptable. 
Governor Daane then described several additional changes he 
believed would be desirable. 
There followed a discussion in which agreement was reached 
regarding appropriate treatment of the various points that had been 
raised, the general objective being to provide an accurate record of 
Federal Reserve consideration of the series of gold loans to Colombia 
without, on the other hand, introducing complicating details. 
Governor Daane referred next to the question of making the 
central bank of Colombia aware that the information was being furnished 
to the Subcommittee. He was somewhat concerned that Banco de la 
Republica had probably assumed a confidentiality of relationships 
regarding its loan transactions and that, in a broader sense, freedom 
of communication between foreign central banks and the Federal Reserve 
might be inhibited, with possible adverse effect on the use of arrange-
ments such as the swap network. 

42n 
11/1/67 
-10-
After discussion there was agreement with a suggestion that 
Banco de la Republica be informed by letter of the Subcommittee's 
inquiry and the response made by the Board. 
The Board then approved unanimously a letter to Chairman Morse 
in the form attached as Item No. 4 and a letter to the central bank of 
Colombia in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Messrs. Cardon, Solomon (Adviser), Sammons, Forrestal, and 
Maroni then withdrew from the meeting. 
Director appointments. The following actions were taken with 
respect to the appointment of Chairmen, Deputy Chairmen, and Class C 
directors at Federal Reserve Banks and the appointment of directors at 
Federal Reserve Bank branches, with the understanding that advice of 
the appointments would be sent to the respective appointees at an 
appropriate time and that public announcement would be made near the 
end of the year in accordance with the usual practice: 
The following were reappointed as Class C directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks indicated, each for a three-
year term beginning January 1, 1968: 
Name 
. 
Bank 
James M. Hester 
New York 
Willis J. Winn 
Philadelphia 
Franklin J. Lunding 
Chicago 
1/ It was understood that Mr. Lunding was agreeable to continuing 
to serve as Chairman and Class C director for the year 1968, with 
the expectation that efforts would be made to arrange for succes-
sion at the end of that year. 

4206 
11/1/67 
-11-
Name 
Bank 
Smith D. Broadbent, Jr 
Byron W. Reeve 
Dolph Simons 
Carl J. Thornsen 
Frederic S. Hirschler 
St. Louis 
Minneapolis 
Kansas City 
Dallas 
San Francisco 
The following were reappointed as directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank branches indicated, each for a three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1968: 
Name 
Branch 
Robert S. Bennett 
Robert Dickey III 
William B. McGuire 
C. Caldwell Marks 
Henry Cragg 
Robert M. Williams 
Reeves E. Ritchie 
James S. Williams 
Gordon W. Foster 
Buffalo 
Pittsburgh 
Charlotte 
Birmingham 
Jacksonville 
Nashville 
Little Rock 
Memphis 
El Paso 
The following were reappointed as directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank branches indicated, each for a two-year term 
beginning January 1, 1968: 
Name 
Edwin G. Koch 
Cris Dobbins 
C. W. Flint, Jr. 
Royden G. Derrick 
William McGregor 
Branch 
Helena 
Denver 
Oklahoma City 
Salt Lake City 
Seattle 
The following were designated as Chairmen and Federal Reserve 
Agents of the Federal Reserve Banks indicated for the year 
1968, with compensation fixed at an amount equal to the fees 
that would be payable to any other director of the same Bank 
for equivalent t ime and attendance to official business: 
Name 
Bank 
Willis J. Winn 
Philadelphia 
Albert G. Clay 
Cleveland 
1/ It subsequently developed that Mr. Dickey was not in a position 
to accept reappointment. 

420 
11/1/67 
-12-
Name 
Bank 
Wilson H. Elkins 
Franklin J. Lunding 
Frederic M. Peirce 
Joyce A. Swan 
Dolph Simons 
Carl J. Thornsen 
Frederic S. Hirschler 
Richmond 
Chicago 
St. Louis 
Minneapolis 
Kansas City 
Dallas 
San Francisco 
The following were appointed as Deputy Chairmen of the 
Federal Reserve Banks indicated for the year 1968: 
Name 
Bayard L. England 
Logan T. Johnston 
Robert W. Lawson, Jr. 
Elvis J. Stahr 
Smith D. Broadbent, Jr. 
Robert F. Leach 
Dean A. McGee 
Max Levine 
S. Alfred Halgren 
Bank 
Philadelphia 
Cleveland 
Richmond 
Chicago 
St. Louis 
Minneapolis 
Kansas City 
Dallas 
San Francisco 
It was agreed to ascertain through the Chairmen of the appro-
priate Federal Reserve Banks whether the following persons would accept 
appointment if tendered as Reserve Bank or branch directors for the 
terms indicated, with the understanding that if it were found that they 
would accept, the appointments would be made: 
J. W. Keener, Chairman of the Board, The B. F. Goodrich 
Company, Akron, Ohio, as a Class C director of the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Cleveland for the three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1968. 
Orin E. Atkins, President, Ashland Oil & Refining Company, 
Ashland, Kentucky, as a director of the Cincinnati Branch 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland for the three-
year term beginning January 1, 1968. 

11/1/67 
-13-
Stuart Shumate, President, Richmond, Fredericksburg & 
Potomac Railroad Company, Richmond, Virginia, as a Class 
C director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond for 
the three-year term beginning January 1, 1968. 
John H. Fetting, Jr., President, A. H. Fetting Company, 
Baltimore, Maryland, as a director of the Baltimore 
Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond for the 
three-year term beginning January 1, 1968. 
L. William Seidman, Partner, Seidman & Seidman, Grand 
Rapids, Michigan, as a director of the Detroit Branch 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago for the three-
year term beginning January 1, 1968. 
Harry M. Young, Jr., Farmer, Herndon, Kentucky, as a 
director of the Louisville Branch of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 1968. 
M. Steele Wright, Jr., President, Texas Farm Products 
Company, Nacogdoches, Texas, as a director of the 
Houston Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1968. 
Lloyd M. Knowlton, General Manager and Partner, 
Knowlton's Creamery, San Antonio, Texas, as a direc-
tor of the San Antonio Branch of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 1968. 
Frank Anderson, Wheat and Cattle Rancher, Heppner, 
Oregon, as a director of the Portland Branch of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for the two-
year term beginning January 1, 1968. 
Secretary's Note: It having been ascer-
tained that acceptances would be forth-
coming, appointment telegrams were sent 
to Messrs. Shumate, Fetting, and Seidman 
on November 6, to Messrs. Young and 
Anderson on November 7, to Messrs. Wright 
and Knowlton on November 13, and to Messrs. 
Keener and Atkins on November 22, 1967. 

4 2 0 9 
11/1/67 
-14-
Directors' fees. There had been distributed a memorandum dated 
October 23, 1967, from Mr. Fauver regarding the fees and allowances 
provided for Federal Reserve directors and members of the Federal Advi-
sory Council. It was recommended, in the light of developments that 
had taken place over the eleven-year period since the maximum fees and 
allowances were last changed, that the Board raise the maximum fee for 
directors at both head offices and branches from $75 to $100 a day and 
that the subsistence allowance be increased from $20 to $25 a day plus 
necessary transportation expenses. This contemplated similar adjust-
ments in the fees and allowances for members of the Federal Advisory 
Council. 
Governor Brimmer suggested, although he did not oppose the sub-
stantive recommendation, that a decision on the matter be deferred until 
it could be considered in the general context of compensation of Federal 
Reserve Bank officers, a subject currently under consideration by the 
Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans. 
There being agreement with that suggestion, the matter was 
deferred, it being understood that it would be brought up for further 
consideration before the end of the year. The preliminary reactions 
were favorable, however, and it was suggested that it might be desir-
able to give the directors and Council members the option of claiming 
travel costs on an actual expense basis. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

420 
11/1/67 
-15-
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
November 1, 1967, recommending the establishment of a new economist 
position in the Business Conditions Section. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Betty L. Jackson as Secretary, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,683, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Ruth M. Blackman, Clerk-Librarian, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, effective the close of business November 3, 1967. 
On November 1, 1967, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 
By the Director of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving the appointment of Frederick R. Miller 
as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent. 
6 
Secret. 

4211 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 1 
11/1/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
November 1, 1967 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Associa-
tion, San Francisco, California, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 
of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in the City of Santo 
Domingo, Dominican Republic, and to operate and maintain such branch 
subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1968, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Santo Domingo. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4212 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 2 
11/1/67 
A D O R g S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
BOARD 
November 1, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
With its letter of June 17, 1966, the Board forwarded to you 
copies of proposed revisions of bank holding company Forms F.R. Y-l and 
F.R. Y-2 and requested the views and comments of those persons in your 
Bank primarily concerned with bank holding company applications. There 
are enclosed further revised copies of those two forms which incorporate 
the suggestions received from the Reserve Banks. The revised forms have 
been approved by the Board and have been sent to the Bureau of the Budget 
for clearance. It is expected that they will be printed and placed in 
use in the near future. 
As you know, section 3(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act was 
amended by Congress in 1966 to conform essentially to the merger provisions 
of section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)). 
Since the factors to be considered by the Board in merger and bank holding 
company cases are the same, substantially the same information and data 
are required of applicants in both instances. Therefore, in the interests 
of uniformity the bank merger application form (F.R. 70) has also been 
revised to conform as nearly as possible to the bank holding company ap-
plication forms. As you will observe from the enclosed copy, with the 
exception of the section relating to the so-called "banking factors," F.R. 
70 incorporates almost verbatim the language used in F.R. Y-2. 
It is planned that the revision of F.R. 70 will be presented for 
Board consideration shortly. If approved, it will be printed and placed in 
use simultaneously with F.R. Y-l and Y-2. Therefore, if the persons respon-
sible for bank merger applications in your Bank have any further suggestions 
comments, please forward them to reach the Board by November 13. 
Very truly yours, 
6 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

4213 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
11/1/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 2, 1967 
Comptroller of the Currency, 
Treasury Department, 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
Dear Mr. Comptroller: 
As requested in your letter of October 2, 1967, there is 
enclosed the Board's report, under section 18(c) of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act, on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of The 
Commercial and Savings Bank of Augusta, Augusta, Georgia, by The 
Citizens and Southern National Bank, Savannah, Georgia. 
In connection with your consideration of the proposed merger, 
your attention is directed to the fact commented upon in the enclosed 
report that Citizens and Southern Holding Company, a registered bank 
holding company, presently owns 5 per cent of the outstanding voting 
stock of The Commercial and Savings Bank of Augusta, Augusta, Georgia. 
Under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, a bank holding 
company may acquire up to 5 per cent of the voting shares of a bank 
without prior approval of the Board, and such bank is not a "subsidiary" 
within the meaning of the Act. However, the Act was amended in 1966 
to provide that it shall be unlawful, except with the Board's prior 
approval, for any action to be taken that causes a bank to become a 
subsidiary of a bank holding company (section 3(a)(2)).. Section 2(d) 
of the Act defines subsidiary as ". . . (2) any company the election 
of a majority of whose directors is controlled in any manner by such 
bank holding company." Following a meeting of members of the Board's 
staff and the staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, that Bank 
has been asked to determine, if possible, the extent to which Citizens 
and Southern Holding Company in fact has "controlled the election of 
a majority of directors of The Commercial and Savings Bank of Augusta." 
Further, it is proposed that, to the extent possible, there will be 
ascertained if there exists direct or indirect ownership or control 
by Citizens and Southern Holding Company of the stock of The Commercial 
and Savings Bank of Augusta other than, and in addition to, the 5 per 
cent of the bank's stock now admitted to be owned by the holding company. 

Comptroller of the Currency 
-2-
4214 
At this time, the Board cannot state with certainty the 
time that will be required to ascertain the aforementioned facts. 
Nor does the Board at this time have any specific evidence to 
indicate violations of the types mentioned. However, in view of 
the statements contained in the merger application concerning the 
total dependency of The Commercial and Savings Bank of Augusta 
upon applicant, and applicant's domination or control of The 
Commercial and Savings Bank of Augusta, presumably premised (in 
the main) upon the ownership by Citizens and Southern Holding 
Company of 5 per cent of the stock of The Commercial and Savings 
Bank of Augusta, the Board believes necessary an inquiry of the 
nature now undertaken by the Board and the Atlanta Reserve Bank. 
In view of the foregoing information, the Board suggests 
that your decision on the proposed transaction be delayed pending 
the results of the above mentioned inquiry undertaken by the Board 
and the Atlanta Reserve Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 

421 
B O A R D OF D O V E R N O R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O . C . 
2 D 5 5 I 
Item No. 4 
11/1/67 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
November 3, 1967. 
The Honorable Wayne Morse, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on American Republics Affairs, 
Committee on Foreign Relations, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In your letter of September 30, 1967, you requested 
information concerning Federal Reserve short-term lending activities 
in Colombia in recent years. As you probably know, loans such as 
the System made to the Banco de la Republica (Colombia) are a form 
of cooperation among central banks. Similar loans have been made 
from time to time for many years to several other foreign monetary 
authorities. In each case, these loans are fully secured by gold 
held under earmark in the vaults of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York. They are made to help foreign monetary authorities meet 
dollar requirements of a temporary nature. They are not a part of 
any long-term aid program such as the Alliance for Progress. 
The fact that the Colombian central bank borrowed from 
the Federal Reserve System is public knowledge. But it may not be 
generally realized in Colombia that these loans were secured by 
gold. Public highlighting of this fact could have repercussions 
on the Colombian political scene as well as on the System's rela-
tions with the Colombian central bank, and I hope that you will 
treat it as information for the exclusive use of the Subcommittee 
of which you are Chairman. 
It would also be damaging to the System's relations with 
the Colombian central bank and with other foreign monetary authorities 
to allow any public disclosure of the substance of correspondence and 
negotiations between the System and the Colombian central bank. While 
I am herewith making this information available, I urge that it too be 
treated as information for the exclusive use of the Subcommittee. 

4 2 J U 
The Honorable Wayne Morse 
-2-
In compliance with your request, you will find enclosed a 
memorandum prepared by our staff dealing with the first, second and 
fourth points in which you are interested. On the third point, I 
should explain that, in coordinating our decisions on these loans 
with other agencies, we do not ask for their written comments. 
Rather coordination takes place orally, generally by telephone. As 
a rule, expression of opinion by other agencies is nothing more than 
a statement that they have no objection to the loan being made. In 
no case involving Colombia has there been any objection from other 
agencies to our making a proposed loan. In a few cases, however, 
some of the agencies have made more positive comments, and discussion 
of such expressions of views has been included in the enclosed staff 
memorandum in the paragraph dealing with the basis for Federal 
Reserve approval of the loan. 
In coordinating with other U.S. Government agencies, by 
agreement with the National Advisory Council on International 
Monetary and Financial Policies (NAC), our present practice is to 
notify the NAC agencies of any request for a loan. If these agencies 
(i.e., the Departments of State, Treasury, and Commerce, and the 
Export-Import Bank) have any comments, they will express them within 
48 hours. It is understood that, if no comment is received in this 
interval, we may assume that they have no objection to our approval 
of the 1 oan. Before 1966, we consulted only the Departments of 
State and Treasury. We have also followed the practice of exchanging 
information informally with the staff of the International Monetary 
Fund, so that our decisions would be made in full knowledge of the 
Fund's relations with the borrowing country. In particular, we have 
tried to ascertain in each case that our proposed loans would not 
interfere with the Fund's activities in the borrowing country. In 
no case involving Colombia or any other country have any objections 
been raised by the Fund staff. 
On your fifth and last point, this Board has not formally 
and systematically evaluated the debt service capacity of Colombia. 
Since, as I explained above, the loans to the Banco de la Republica 
were fully secured by gold held under earmark in the vaults of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, there was no risk of loss involved 
and therefore no need for such an evaluation. Nor has an evaluation 
of Colombia's general economic progress been made by the Board itself. 
While our staff occasionally prepares papers on the general economic 
progress of selected foreign countries, none has been prepared on 
Colombia during the period to which you refer. We do, of course, 

4217 
The Honorable Wayne Morse 
-3-
have access to reports on this subject prepared elsewhere, especially 
by the U.S. Embassy in Bogota and by the staff of the International 
Monetary Fund. 
I trust that you will find this material helpful. 
Enclosure. 

4218 
Federal Reserve System Short-Term Lending 
to Colombia ilnce 1961 
Answers to Questions by Senator Morse 
Loan 01--1961 
Request by Colombia. In December 1961, the Banco de la 
Republlca (Colombia) requested a short-term loan for $15 million to be 
secured by a pledge of gold held under earmark in the vaults of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The request stated that, in view of 
the low level of coffee and cotton exports, the loan was needed to meet 
non-recurring payments in foreign exchange. The Banco indicated that 
a more favorable balance of payments was expected in 1962. 
2. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval of Loan. The Board 
approved the loan as a means of meeting a temporary shortage of exchange 
in Colombia. The Board also took account of the fact that the amount of 
the loan requested was small in relation to Colombia's total annual 
exports of about $500 million. 
3. Maturity and Repayment Schedule. This loan was to mature 
in three months, with option to repay at any time before maturity. 
However, in February 1962, the Banco de la Republica requested a renewal 
of this loan for three months beyond its March 1962 maturity date. This 
request was granted at the same time as loan #2 (see below) was approved. 
The 1961 loan was fully paid in June 1962. 

1 2 1 5 ) 
-2-
Loan #2—1962 
1. Request by Colombia. In February 1962, the Banco de la 
Republica requested a three-month renewal of the previous loan and a 
new $15 million loan secured by gold held under earmark in the vaults 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with a maturity of six months. 
These were said to be needed in order to meet some seasonal obligations 
in view of the continuing lag in coffee exports. 
2. Basis for Federal jteserve Approval of Loan. The Board 
was informed that the Colombian authorities had given assurances that, 
after mid-year, they intended to adopt policies which would strengthen 
their balance of payments. With a view to obtaining external long-term 
financial assistance, these policies were being discussed with U. S. 
Government agencies. The Board felt that approval of the Colombian 
request would be an appropriate cooperative measure facilitating these 
efforts by providing needed foreign exchange. 
3. Maturity and Repayment Schedule. The new loan had a 
maturity of six months with option to repay at any time prior to maturity. 
It was repaid in August 1962. 
Loan #3--1962 
1. Request by Colombia. In July 1962, immediately following 
repayment of loan #1 and prior to repayment of loan #2, the Banco de la 
Republica requested a new loan against gold held in New York for $20 
million, without indicating what maturity was desired. The loan was 

4220 
-3-
said to be needed to meet certain obligations in view of the continuing 
difficulties experienced in exporting coffee. 
2. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval of Loan. In view of 
the fact that Colombia had been indebted to the System continuously 
since December 1961, the System was reluctant to accede to the request 
for an additional loan. However, in view of the Colombians' previously 
stated intention to adopt policies to improve the balance of payments, 
and as a means of helping Colombia phase out its borrowing from the 
System, the Banco de la Republica was advised that a $10 million loan, 
maturing in three months, not renewable, was the maximum that could be 
considered. These terms were accepted by the Banco de la Republica 
and the loan was approved in August. 
3. Maturity and Repayment Schedule. The loan had a maturity 
of three months with option to repay at any time before maturity. It 
was repaid in November 1962. 
Loan #4--1963 
1. Request by Colombia. In January 1963, the Banco de la 
Republica requested a loan of $30 million against gold held in New York 
for a period of 180 days. The loan was said to be needed to buttress 
the peso during the period when domestic credit must be increased to 
finance coffee purchases by the Coffee Federation. At the same time, 
there was an exceptional drain on the country's international reserve 

4221 
-4-
position arising from the Banco de la Republica's efforts to maintain 
a stable exchange rate by intervening in the free exchange market. 
2. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval of Loan. The Colombian 
Government had just begun to implement the long anticipated stabilization 
program in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, and had just 
been granted a standby credit by the Fund and a program loan by AID. The 
System felt that the requested loan would be appropriate to help Colombia 
carry out .its stabilization program. However, the maturity of the loan 
was limited to three months. 
3. Maturity and Repayment Schedule. The loan had a maturity 
of three months with option to repay at any time before maturity. It 
was drawn in February 1963 and repaid in May 1963. 
Loan #5--1963 
1. Request by Colombia. In July 1963, the Banco de la Republica 
requested a new loan of $30 million against gold held in New York to mature 
in six months. The request was based on the continuing unsatisfactory 
conditions in the world coffee markets and on delays in receiving anticipated 
aid from the U. S. Government. 
2. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval of Loan. The Board 
felt that Colombia's close cooperation with the International Monetary 
Fund in carrying out a stabilization program and other measures, its 
difficulties in obtaining necessary legislative authorization to take 

4222 
-5-
further corrective measures, and the key role of Colombia at this time in 
the Alliance for Progress, all formed an adequate basis for sympathetic 
consideration of the Colombian request. 
3. Maturity and Repayment Schedule. The loan was for six 
months with option to repay at any time before maturity. It was drawn 
k 
in August and repaid in February 1964. 
Loan #6--1964 
1. Request by Colombia. In November 1964, the Banco de la 
Republica requested another loan for $30 million against gold held in 
New York with a maturity of 180 days. The loan was said to be needed 
to avoid a lowering in the country's gross international reserves in 
view of a delay in the disbursement of an AID program loan granted in 
July 1964. The Banco de la Republica expressed the hope that the 
disbursement of the AID loan would begin before the requested loan 
came due. 
2. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval of Loan. The Board 
was informed that the delay in the disbursement of the AID loan stemmed 
from Colombia's failure to meet some of the conditions of that loan. 
Negotiations with Colombia to overcome these difficulties were then 
underway. State Department officials believed that extension of the 
loan would not interfere with negotiations with the Colombians. AID 
itself was considering releasing some of the program loan funds prior 

4223 
-6-
to reaching full agreement with Colombia. The Board approved the loan 
in December on the ground that this would be consistent with the action 
that AID was preparing to take on its own loan. However, it limited the 
maturity to three months. 
3. Maturity and Repayment Schedule. The loan was for three 
months with option to repay at any time before maturity. It was repaid 
in March 1965. 
Loan #7--1965 
1. Request by Colombia. In September 1965, the Banco de la 
Republica requested a loan of $22 million against gold held in New York, 
without indicating what maturity was desired. The loan was said to be 
needed to maintain the regularity of international payments without 
producing a sharp decline in gross international reserves. The Banco 
de la Republica indicated that, as a result of recent reforms in the 
foreign exchange system, the conclusion of a new standby arrangement 
with the International Monetary Fund was expected very soon. Following 
this, other external credits were also expected to be obtained and 
these would permit repayment of the requested loan. 
2. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval of Loan. The Board 
approved a loan of $21 million (the maximum that could be granted in 
view of the Banco de la Republica's gold holdings at the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York at the time) in consideration of the fact that Colombia 
had recently improved its foreign exchange system. It was anticipated 

4224 
-7-
that financial assistance would soon become available from the Fund and 
other sources. It was felt that granting the requested loan would be 
helpful in tiding Colombia over until the expected long-term assistance 
materialized. 
3' Maturity and Repayment Schedule. The loan was for three 
months, with option to repay at any time before maturity. It was drawn 
in October 1965 and repaid in January 1966. 
Loan #8--1966 
l' Request by Colombia. At the end of August 1966, the Banco 
de la Republica requested a new loan for $13 million against gold held 
in New York for a period of 180 days. The request stated that the loan 
was needed because of a temporary deficiency of coffee export receipts 
and because the rate of disbursement of AID loans was slower than had 
been anticipated. 
2« 
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval of Loan. The Board 
was informed that the delays in disbursing AID loans were explained 
by the fact that the Colombian authorities had not yet established 
administrative procedures which would facilitate disbursement of the 
loans. However, the deficiency of coffee export receipts appeared to 
form an appropriate basis for Federal Reserve short-term assistance, 
since it resulted in part from a temporary factor: the Colombian 
Coffee Federation had to surrender export proceeds in advance in the 
second quarter to help the authorities meet a bulge in imports occassioned 

1225 
-8-
by the rebuilding of inventories after import restrictions were eased. 
Ih* Board also gave weight to the views of the Department of State 
which thought that the extension of the loan would help the Colombian 
authorities in their efforts to adopt further stabilization measures. 
In these circumstances, the System agreed to a 90-day nonrenewable 
loan. 
3- 
M a t u r l l :y and Repayment Schedule. The loan was for 90 days 
with option to repay at any time before maturity. The loan was drawn 
in three installments during September 1966. Late in November, the 
Colombian authorities requested a 90-day renewal of the loan. This 
was denied early in December. The Colombian authorities then requested 
that the due dates of the first two drawings be postponed to coincide 
with that of the third drawing. The Departments of State and Treasury 
expressed no objection to this request, which was approved by the 
Board. The full amount was repaid in one installment before the end 
of December 1966. As a result, part of the loan was outstanding 107 
days, another part 100 days and the rest 90 days. 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
November 1967 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 5 
11/1/67 
November 3, 1967 
The Honorable Eduardo Arias Robledo, 
General Manager, 
Banco de la Republica, 
Bogota, Colombia. 
Dear Mr. Arias Robledo: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
was recently requested by the Chairman of a Subcommittee of the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the United States Senate to 
submit detailed information about Federal Reserve short-term 
loans to Colombia since 1961. The Board felt that you might be 
interested in seeing the reply submitted, and with that thought 
I am enclosing a copy for your information. 
I understand that the information we are furnishing 
to the Subcommittee will be used by the Committee staff in 
preparing a report to the Subcommittee that will be confidential, 
and that if the Subcommittee should decide to publish any of this 
information it will consult with the Board before doing so. 
Enclosure 

4227 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
AT 
, 
Item No. 6 
a F T H E 
11/1/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 2, 1967 
Mr. Everett N. Case, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Re serve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Case: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the 
Division of Personnel Administration has approved the request con-
tained in your letter of October 20, 1967, for the appointment of 
Mr. Frederick R. Miller as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent 
to succeed Mr. Anthony J. Segesti. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. Miller 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board 
of Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, dur-
ing the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy 
in that office, his responsibility will be to the Assistant Federal 
Reserve Agents and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as 
Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent, Mr. Miller may, with the 
approval of the Federal Reserve Agent and the President, perform such 
work for the Bank as will not be inconsistent with his duties as 
Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent. 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Miller is fully informed of the 
importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from 
the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
Please have Mr. Miller execute the usual Oath of Office which 
should be forwarded to the Board of Governors along with notification of 
the effective date of his appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
'of GOUfV. 
