67) 
t: . : 
Minutes for 
May 28, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 1/ 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
' f t 
- 
• 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
f FT" 
y Meeting with Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 

A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
<1 
System with the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks was held in 
the Board Room of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C. 
at 2:15 p.m. on Tuesday, May 28, 1968. The purpose of the meeting 
was to discuss questions raised by the Final Report of the Steering 
Committee for the Fundamental Reappraisal of the Discount Mechanism 
All of the members of the Board except Chairman Martin were 
present, and all of the Reserve Bank Presidents except Mr. Hickman. 
Members of the Board's staff in attendance included Messrs. Holland 
Kenyon, Hackley, Molony, Farrell, F. Solomon, Leavitt, and Shull, 
and Miss Ormsby. Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board, also 
attended. 
Governor Mitchell, as Chairman of the Steering Committee, 
reviewed procedures that had been considered for obtaining comments 
the report. As matters now stood, copies of the report had been 
sent to the members of the Federal Advisory Council on a personal 
confidential basis, and the Board would receive the latter's 
views at a joint meeting on Tuesday, June 4. Further discussion 
between the Board and the Presidents was contemplated for Tuesday, 
June 18, after which a decision could be reached on procedures for 
soliciting the reactions of commercial bankers, academicians, and 
other parties who might be interested. 

1934 
5/28/68 
_ 2-
Governor Mitchell then discussed seven questions that had 
arisen in the preparation of the Steering Committee's report and 
the answers that were implicit in the report. The questions and 
answers were as follows: 
1. Do Regulation A and current discount practices 
need revision? The Steering Committee concluded that they 
did. The level of borrowing by member banks from the 
Reserve Banks had become so small that the function had 
almost atrophied. The discount window was not performing 
the role it probably could in assisting adjustment of the 
reserve positions of member banks. 
(This was emphasized 
in the recently issued study of the discount function by 
the American Bankers Association.) It appeared that a 
large number of banks did not know precisely on what 
conditions they could borrow. There was uncertainty on 
the question of access to the discount window and how 
long banks could stay indebted, and that had contributed 
importantly to a reluctance to use the discount facility. 
The Committee also noted the experience with the System's 
• letter of September 1, 1966, which was an illustration of 
uncertainty and inadequacy of communication between the 
Federal Reserve Banks and borrowing banks. Efforts already 
were in process to try to improve the degree of knowledge 
about the borrowing process; the discount officers, with 
Mr. Holland's assistance, had been at work in that area. 
The Steering Committee had the feeling that adjustments 
through the discount window would in many cases relieve 
excessive strain on the operations of the Trading Desk; 
along with needless gyrations in money market rates. If 
smaller banks were to use this adjustment process more 
frequently, they should be able to serve their communities 
more effectively than if they were uncertain as to what 
avenues of adjustment were available to them. 
2. Is there a need for the discount window? The 
Steering Committee did not debate that question very long. 
It did feel that the case for maintaining the discount 
window would be less strong if there were only a small 
group of large banks involved. With some 6,100 member 
banks, however, a need was seen for the window in order 
to work the greatest benefit to the public interest and 
minimize adjustment frictions. 

1S35 
5/28/68 
_ 
3-
3. Should member banks be permitted to be in debt 
continually? The Steering Committee came to the conclu-
sion early in its study that continuous indebtedness 
should not be favored. Experience in some foreign coun-
tries indicated that a central bank which had commercial 
banks in debt to it constantly became increasingly involved 
in surveillance of the borrowers' operations. The Committee 
concluded that surveillance should be restricted principally 
to banks that were in trouble or showed resistance to making 
adjustments to changes in the monetary climate. 
4. What should be the role of the discount rate? 
The Committee believed that the discount rate should play 
a larger role than at present in facilitating the adjust-
ment mechanism. 
It thought of the discount rate as being 
maintained closer to money market rates and in terms of its 
being changed more frequently, but with no change in the 
procedure for initiating adjustments, which would continue 
to be recommended by the Reserve Bank directors. 
If the 
discount rate were more closely aligned with money market 
rates, changes would, on most occasions, tend to lose their 
announcement effect. Most of the members of the Committee 
felt that that would be desirable, since often the announce-
ment effect was unwanted. 
5. What should be the role of counsel and surveillance? 
The word "surveillance" was recognized as having sensitive 
connotations. 
The Steering Committee, in using that word, 
simply had in mind a role of watching what a member bank was 
doing to adjust from an unbalanced position. That would seem 
to be an inescapable task of the discount officer, particularly 
in dealing with banks that were in a distressed situation or 
not adjusting to a new monetary climate. When a member bank 
exceeded its basic borrowing privilege, the role of surveil-
la nee would be little different from the role now exercised 
by the Reserve Banks. 
6. What about developmental or seasonal credit arrange-
ments? 
In the judgment of the Steering Committee, the dis-
count window should not be used to provide development credit. 
Other means should be utilized for moving resources into areas 
where chronic credit shortages existed. The Committee believed 
that another group should be appointed to deal specifically 
with that problem. On seasonal credit, the Committee had made 
a proposal that in effect would confine the extension of such 
credit to relatively small banks, particularly in unit bank 

1936 
5/28/68 
_ 
4-
states. Generally, the problem would arise in connection 
with agricultural needs or in resort areas. The question 
of seasonal swings resulting from changes in deposits of 
public funds seemed to need more investigation. 
7. What about liquidity assistance to nonmember banks 
and financial institutions? The Steering Committee concluded 
that the System should be prepared to provide such assistance 
as needed in emergency situations and favored using a "conduit" 
method. 
With regard to the sixth question, President Bopp, a member 
of the Steering Committee, said he did not recall discussion indicating 
that the extension of seasonal credit was to be related to the size 
°f banks. Mr. Holland noted that the final report did not propose 
to exclude a bank simply because it was large, while President Clay 
said he thought the Steering Committee simply had concluded that a 
large bank would not be so likely to have the deposit swings that 
Would qualify it for seasonal borrowing privileges. Governor Mitchell 
commented that the Steering Committee obviously did not contemplate 
that a large money center bank would be borrowing to cover seasonal 
swings. 
President Ellis, as Chairman of the Presidents' Conference, 
expressed the view that the research effort had reached the stage 
where comments from parties outside the System were needed, partic-
ularly in order to be sure that the proposals contained in the final 
report would be meaningful to the proposed beneficiaries. The pro-
cedure for obtaining such comments, as outlined by Governor Mitchell, 
Was designed to avoid making any commitment, but it would provide a 

1337 
5/28/68 
_ 
5-
means for discussion by those whose judgment was needed. Today's 
discussion might well cover any substantive issues that were seen 
in the final report and, except as indicated by the discussion, it 
might be assumed that the language of the report was satisfactory 
for the purpose of communicating with those whose comments were 
desired. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that it should be made known 
whether there was any President who believed that any part of the 
program visualized by the Steering Committee should not be placed 
in the public domain at this time. 
Governor Mitchell noted that President Hayes previously had 
objected to placing the final report in the public domain at this 
stage, although there were certain portions of the public to whom 
Mr. Hayes would be willing to have it exposed. However, members of 
the Board's staff believed that if the final report was made avail-
able to anyone outside the System, it must also be made available 
generally. 
President Hayes said he had felt rather strongly, when 
Publication of the report in the Federal Reserve Bulletin was 
being considered, that there would be a real disadvantage in 
taking the report public in any form before there had been oppor-
tunity for the kind of discussion by the Board and the Presidents 
'M v'ov 
that was being held today and presumably would continue on the 
th of June. He still felt quite strongly, with regard to some 

5/28/68 
_ 
6-
of the proposals, that they should not be made public if there 
was a chance that the System might decide not to go ahead with 
them. After public exposure, it would be hard to pull back. 
There followed a go-around during which the participants 
in the meeting commented on substantive issues that they saw in 
the report, including relationships between those issues and the 
procedural questions that had been raised. 
President Bopp, a member of the Steering Committee, said 
he had some question whether the method of developing seasonal 
variations was precisely right, but that could be worked out. He 
also had some question, in terms of the basic borrowing privilege, 
whether capital and surplus was the best guideline for determining 
limit for any individual bank- 
In general, however, he was 
enthusiastic about the report. 
President Kimbrel expressed the view that adoption of the 
Proposals, with some technical modifications, would have a desirable 
effect on the System's ability to execute monetary policy. The need 
frequent intervention in the money market to make marginal 
adjustments should be reduced. He did not think the proposals 
actually contemplated as radical a departure from present conditions 
a s might be thought at first glance, and their reception might be 
A/ Governor Brimmer and President Bopp left the meeting at this 
P°int to keep an out-of-town engagement.. 

1839 
5/28/68 
_ 
7-
somewhat slow in the banking community, due in part to past expe-
rience and the conservative feeling of bankers generally about 
showing borrowings on bank statements,. Nevertheless, with some 
education and effort on the part of the Federal Reserve, the new 
proposals could become quite a desirable addition to the System's 
tools. He subscribed generally to the principles in the final 
report, but agreed that there should be a reasonably good under-
standing within the System before the proposals were distributed 
to otherso 
In the event of subsequent changes, bankers would 
feel that something was being taken away from them., 
President Francis commented that the time and effort 
expended on the discount study revealed how difficult it was to 
come up with some formula that would work better than the current 
procedures. The contemplated procedures seemed to him not greatly 
different from those now being followed,. The question whether or 
n°t the redesign of the discount window would induce more smaller 
banks to come to the window could be answered only by asking them. 
Personally, he had some reservations about whether that purpose 
w°uld be accomplished. He did not see that administrative problems 
w°uld be significantly diminished,. The new techniques might create 
e v en more differences of opinion because the feeling against con-
tinuous use of the discount window had not been eliminated. That 
Problem would continue. 
In summary, he was rather anxious to 

1940 
5/28/68 
_ 
8-
ascertain the reaction of bankers, particularly in order to see 
whether they believed that the discount window would be more usable 
if the new procedures were put into effect. He hoped so, but he 
had some doubt, particularly when it came to the small banks. 
President Hayes noted that he was probably more negative 
on.some of the specific proposals than most of the other Presidents. 
He recognized the amount of work that had gone into the discount 
study, and he agreed that some revitalization of the discount window 
probably was in order. However, the jump from such a conclusion to 
the proposal for a basic borrowing privilege had been accomplished 
rather too easilyP 
That was not the only way to liberalize the 
discount window. A minority view had been expressed in the 
Secretariat's final report on the specifications of a redesigned 
discount mechanism that the objective might be accomplished better 
by a revision of the foreword to Regulation A than by incorpora-
tion in the Regulation of specific and arbitrary rights, tests, 
a nd limitations. The latter might simply result in less adminis-
trative flexibility and in inequities among member banks. An 
impression might be created that the System was actually tightening 
access to the discount window. 
President Hayes recalled that his views on the major pro-
posals in the final report of the Steering Committee were contained 
a letter of May 7, 1968, copies of which had been distributed 

5/28/68 
_ 
9-
to all those present. 
In essence, he still felt that it would be 
v' ^-vi'.' • 
preferable to liberalize the discount window and remove some of 
the atmosphere of restrictiveness by making certain changes in 
the foreword to Regulation A and by avoiding the establishment 
of a basic borrowing privilege under which credit would be 
extended on a no-questions-asked basis. The fundamental reason 
for his reluctance had to do with the open market function. 
Automatic access to the discount window might have public rela-
tions advantages; he could understand how it might appeal to 
some member banks. On the other hand, in the case of medium-
size and larger banks there might be some perverse effect, by 
seeming to offer something that was really, to them, very little. 
Also, he was not sure how adoption of the proposals would accom-
plish any important administrative simplification. 
It would 
still be necessary to determine whether there was excessive 
V 
D°rrowing; that was a fact of life and should be accepted. The 
question of differences of administration as between districts 
had never been gone into thoroughly enough to clarify the issues, 
but he would maintain that adoption of the proposals was not 
•necessarily going to help the administrative problem. 
The greatest objection that he could see, President Hayes 
repeated, was the unknown dimension of the new borrowing element 
from the standpoint of the open market function. On balance, he 

5/28/68 
_ 
10-
believed that the advantage of the basic borrowing privilege was 
outweighed by risks in the area of overall credit control. The 
Securities Depar tment of the New York Bank was puzzled as to what 
the proper stance of open market operations would be in light of 
the rather unpredictable use of the basic borrowing privilege, and 
the final report was ambiguous in dealing with that question. At 
one place it implied that there would be fairly heavy borrowing 
under those lines of credit, equivalent almost to the amount of 
float. In other places there was a suggestion that when borrowing 
became very heavy it might be necessary to ease the pressure by 
open market purchases. It was hard to predict whether the Trading 
Desk could maintain as good control over the money market generally 
and over the distribution of credit as under the present system. 
The seasonal borrowing privilege apparently was going to 
be of interest mainly to smaller banks, President Hayes continued, 
and its aggregate use would probably not be large enough to create 
a similar magnitude of problems for the Desk, although it was 
not clear how great a problem there would be. On the role of the 
discount rate, he would agree with the report up to a certain 
point. While the report was not specific, he gathered some 
members of the Steering Committee thought in terms of very frequent 
rate changes of as little as .05 of 1 per cent. He would not 
Welcome that. Perhaps the System should have used 1/4 per cent 

5/28/68 
rate changes more often, but he would resist anything approaching 
an automatic type of discount rate change. Further, he would not 
want to throw away lightly the announcement effects of rate changes 
for he thought they were advantageous in certain circumstances. 
President Ellis said he understood there was general agree-
ment that adoption of the proposals would introduce more slack in 
the monetary mechanism, but that would be a cost offsetting the 
advantages of opening up the discount window. The problem was how 
much slack would be introduced in this fashion, and it would be 
helpful to have the advice of bankers on the extent to which they 
would expect to use the basic borrowing privilege. 
The question 
could not be finally resolved without experimentation 
President Ellis said that, while he had no quarrel with 
the seven questions and answers presented by Governor Mitchell, 
he had some question about how close the report came to achieving 
realistic responses to the seven points. He would like to have 
the Committee reexamine the portion of the report that dealt with 
borrowing in excess of the amount permitted under the basic priv-
1lege. 
In the section of the report on the basic privilege, 
automatic access to the discount window was envisaged, but later 
the report seemed to have the flavor to taking back some part 
what was professed to be given. Therefore, reader attitudes 
w°uld depend somewhat on the sections of the report on which the 

5/28/68 
_ 
12-
reader concentrated. 
In describing extended borrowing privileges, 
the report indicated that although banks would not lose the right 
to borrow they would lose their immunity to contact from the 
Reserve Banks and would come under intensified surveillance. 
Banks were likely to say that they came under surveillance all 
the time, and that such surveillance would be intensified if they 
used more than the basic borrowing privilege. He suspected there 
was lack of agreement around the table on the concept of extended 
borrowing and on the point at which surveillance would be initiated. 
If that was not clear to those around the table, it would not be 
clear to readers of the report. Therefore, that portion of the 
report should be clarified, with some indication given of how the 
concept differed from the practices presently in effect. 
Governor Mitchell noted that any kind of administration of 
the discount window must involve some knowledge of the borrowing 
banks. The thought of the Steering Committee had been that borrow-
ing under the basic privilege, in terms of period and amount, would 
correspond essentially to the borrowing that presently took place 
without overt surveillance. 
President Ellis reiterated that he thought the report should 
be clarified. He then noted that the text contained a description 
of the administrative guidelines that presumably would be followed, 
with a statement that better communications would be established 

5/28/68 
_ 
13-
to achieve greater uniformity of discount administration between 
districts. That was appropriate, but he would not want to claim 
more than could effectively be achieved. Having said all this, 
he felt that the report, with some amendments, should be used as 
a channel of communication between the Federal Reserve and member 
banks and academicians0 
President Coldwell said that he supported generally the 
program outlined in the report. However, he would suggest making 
certain changes of language to eliminate negativism and try to 
convince banks that this was actually a new arrangement for bor-
rowing. In other words, he would stress the positive advantages. 
He was still uneasy about placing an examination qualification on 
the basic borrowing privilege, for he was not convinced that there 
were clear, unequivocable examination standards that could be 
communicated effectively to the banks. If meaningful definitions 
were available, he would be less concerned,, On the whole, he 
felt that the report moved in the direction of liberalization of 
the di scount window. It offered a clearer statement of what banks 
would be permitted to do, and to a large number of banks it should 
^e a meaningful privilege to be able to come in and borrow with a 
clear conscience, with knowledge in advance as to how long they 
could borrow, and how much, without criticism. 

1S46 
5/28/68 
_ 
14-
In response to a question, President Coldwell expressed the 
view that it would be difficult for a Reserve Bank to establish 
that a member bank should be eliminated from eligibility for the 
basic borrowing privilege on the basis of a composite rating as the 
result of examination, particularly if the basic privilege contem-
plated a fairly modest level of borrowing. In his opinion, lower-
rated banks should have equal access to the window for the short 
run, and only when the borrowing went further should the Reserve 
Bank exercise surveillance. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the Steering Committee 
had suggested resort to examining criteria so that problem banks 
could be warned before they came to the window in anticipation of 
exercising an automatic borrowing privilege. Rather than to have 
some bank in real difficulty come to the window and attempt to use 
the basic line, the Committee thought it would be appropriate to 
warn such a bank in advance that credit would not be available 
to it on an automatic basis. He agreed, however, that the language 
°f the report should be clarified. The report was not intended to 
be read in as negative a sense as had been suggested by President 
Coldwell0 
President Ellis suggested that it might be better for the 
report to deal directly with the matter of problem banks than to 
Carry a general tone of negativism. 

1947 
5/28/68 
_ 
15-
President Swan agreed that the points raised by Presidents 
Ellis and Coldwell should be clarified. He went on to say that in 
his opinion the report did not entirely resolve the question whether 
the Federal Reserve should assist small banks simply because they 
were small. He was not prepared to suggest specific changes in the 
report, but that aspect did disturb him. He felt that steps should 
be taken to expose the report for comment; it was well known that 
the study was under way, and it would be desirable to produce a 
report as quickly as possible. Members of the Federal Advisory 
Council, after the discussion with the Board on June 4, were likely 
to report to the Boards of Directors of their respective Reserve 
Banks, and question would then arise why the directors should not 
have the report also. In his view the directors should have the 
report, at least somewhat in advance of general publication. 
(Note: As today's discussion proceeded, several other 
Presidents also suggested that consideration be given to making 
the report available to Reserve Bank directors. On the other hand, 
a view was expressed that it would not be desirable to give the 
report wider circulation until general agreement had been reached 
hy the Board and the Presidents on questions of the kind that had 
keen raised today, It was suggested an adverse reaction could 
result if a report were circulated offering privileges that were 
subsequently withdrawn. It was understood that the Board would 

19 
5/28/68 
_ 
16-
consider at its meeting tomorrow the question of distribution of 
the report to Reserve Bank directors and that the Presidents would 
be advised. At that following meeting, the Board decided to give 
its approval to such distribution on a confidential basis.) 
President Galusha said that he supported the report. A 
number of questions he had entertained initially had been clarified 
to his satisfaction., In determining whether the proposals were 
clear, it would be helpful to have a broader distribution of the 
report and discussion by the Boards of Directors of the several 
Reserve Banks. The reactions of country bankers should be partic-
ularly useful in determining whether the proposed borrowing 
privileges were understandable and represented something they could 
use. Further study would have a low cost-benefit ratio; the point 
had been reached where the proposals should be tested empirically. 
It was difficult to judge the impact on country banks. He doubted 
whether, in the short run, the borrowing privileges would mean 
much to them, but the atmosphere of country banking was changing 
rapidly and it would seem useful to have this tool in existence. 
He had strong feelings about maintaining the image of the Federal 
Reserve System as a sensitive agency in terms of the banking 
structure., The supportive base of the smaller banks was important, 
and he regretted losses of System membership within that group in 
terms of cumulative effect. 

5/28/68 
_ 
17-
President Scanlon, a member of the Steering Committee, 
said he had been concerned about some of the same questions 
raised around the table today. He agreed that there should be 
cla rification of the language in the report on the matter of 
qualification for the basic borrowing privilege. Not only were 
there the kinds of problems pointed up by President Coldwell, 
but there would be a further problem the first time a Reserve 
Bank told a national bank that it was being denied the basic 
borrowing privilege because of capital inadequacy, if the report 
of examination cited the bank's capital as adequate., He would 
like to give a Reserve Bank the right to cancel the basic bor-
rowing privilege without couching that right in language so 
specific as that now found in the report. On the question of when 
a Reserve Bank would begin to exercise surveillance, he felt that 
care should be exercised to avoid ending up with a policy more 
restrictive than at present. For example, a bank that had not 
been borrowing might come to the window for an amount only 
slightly in excess of that permitted under the basic line. As 
of now, that bank would not fall under surveillance. The report 
should reflect a policy of liberalization, and what was given 
with the one hand should not be pulled back with the other. 
Banks should not be led into thinking that they were being 
offered something and then find that strings were attached. 

5/28/68 
_ 
18-
On the matter of seasonal borrowing, President Scanlon 
said he had had reservations because he felt that the old connota-
tions of seasonal were outmoded. He would have preferred to talk 
about adjustment credit--short-term and intermediate-term. 
However, 
the staff of his Bank had made a study of the prospective use of a 
seasonal borrowing privilege by banks in the Seventh District, as 
a result of which he was now willing to withdraw his earlier 
criticisms, although he would still prefer to use different ter-
minology 
The study indicated that the seasonal credits probably 
would not involve much money and that the users would be very 
small banks, 
(Note! Copies of the Reserve Bank memorandum were 
subsequently sent to the Board members and Presidents ) 
President Clay, a member of the Steering Committee, said that 
he was in favor of the report, although he would be agreeable to some 
minor modifications along the lines suggested by today's discussion. 
agreed with President Hayes that if there was some part of the 
report the System was not going to adopt, it would be better if 
that part were not publicized,. He also concurred in the view that 
°pen market operations should continue to be the preponderant means 
providing bank reserves 
However, the current high degree of 
Preponderance implied more perfect financial markets than was 
actually the case, and adoption of the proposals in the report 
w°uld help to remedy the situation. Banks in his area tended to 

1951 
5/28/68 
_ 
19-
feel that they were far away from the source of reserve supply and 
that it sometimes took a long time for the distribution to occur. 
There would continue to be small banks in the banking system 
for some time, President Clay added, and the Federal Reserve should 
help them to do as good a job as possible. Problems such as capital 
requirements, operating inefficiencies, and management might eventually 
phase out the small banks. In the meantime the Federal Reserve could 
afford to have the support of those banks, which did not have the 
same opportunities for obtaining funds as were available to the 
large money market banks. He did not feel that the System need be 
concerned about criticism from the large banks that the basic bor-
rowing privilege would favor the smaller banks. The recent ABA 
study made it obvious that the discount window was not doing the 
kind of job it should, and the System should come out with a report 
proposing some things that were different from what it was doing 
now. In his view, President Hayes had overemphasized the dangers 
from the standpoint of Trading Desk operations„ 
The System should 
not refrain from moving ahead simply because all of the implica-
tions could not be thought out in advance, 
President Ellis referred to a study of borrowing in the 
Fi rst District in May 1966, and the effect if the basic borrowing 
privilege had then been in existence. It appeared, in summary, 
that a large proportion of the banks then borrowing were obtaining 

5/28/68 
_ 
20-
more reserves from the discount window than the amount to which 
they would have been entitled under the basic privilege. 
President Clay observed that administrative problems would 
not be eliminated completely. But he felt that they would be much 
less difficult, because they would build up from a different starting 
point. Much of the criticism of the discount window tended to come 
from banks that had never tried to borrow because they felt that 
they would come under administrative surveillance immediately. 
Further, he did not envisage that anything like the maximum aggre-
gate level of borrowing possible under the basic privilege would 
ever be reached at any given time. 
President Hayes said it was not clear to him what would 
happen in the event of short-term borrowing in amount greater than 
the basic line. Would it simply be allowed to go on until it 
became clearly excessive, or would there be surveillance, and 
perhaps contact with the member bank, as soon as the borrowing 
exceeded the dollar limits of the basic privilege? 
Governor Mitchell replied that the Steering Committee had 
not endeavored to work out a detailed solution to that type of 
problem. If a bank slipped by accident into over-line borrowing 
in a certain time period, presumably there need be no comment at 
all. On the other hand, the situation might be different if a 
bank slipped into such a position deliberately. 

1953 
5/28/68 
_ 
21-
President Hayes noted that practically every major bank 
in New York would go over the basic line every time it borrowed, 
and he hoped that that would not call for any special surveillance. 
Mrc Holland cited two sentences at the top of page 25 of 
the report indicating what the Committee envisaged would happen 
in a situation such as that referred to by President Hayes. 
President Coldwell said he did not understand that a Reserve Bank 
would be expected to do anything different than at present if a 
large bank borrowed for the first time in excess of its basic 
line, and Mr. Holland said that that was essentially what was 
meant by the passage he had read. 
President Heflin noted that Mr. Wayne had been a member of 
the Steering Committee before his recent retirement and that the 
Richmond Bank basically supported the Steering Committee's docu-
ment. However, he was somewhat concerned about the question of 
surveillance in relation to borrowing above the basic line, 
particularly if the so-called seasonal borrowing privilege was 
involved. He would not like to see the seasonal borrowing 
privilege publicized until it had been thoroughly studied. The 
documentation thus far produced had simply asserted a need, and 
the need had not been clearly defined. He would prefer to have 
seasonal needs covered by existing administrative procedures. 
He envisaged that banks would be adept in working up cases of 
purported seasonal needs. 

5/28/68 
_ 
22-
Governor Daane agreed with President Galusha that the 
System should be sensitive to its image vis-a-vis the banking 
community. On the other hand, he was apprehensive about the 
questions raised by President Hayes in relation to the execution 
of monetary policy. He, at least, had not thought through all 
the implications. He believed instinctively that adoption of 
the Steering Committee's proposals would lead to a gain on the 
side of the System's image and a loss on the policy side. Also, 
he would not want to abandon the announcement effect of discount 
rate changes because he felt the announcement effect was often 
important in communicating not only with banks but also with the 
international community. 
Governor Maisel said that he would not want to do away 
with the announcement effect completely, because it was occasion-
ally useful, but he would like to be able to change the discount 
rate without an announcement effect every time. He went on to sa 
that while it might be true that the Open Market Committee's 
directives to the Desk would be more difficult to express and 
to implement in terms of money market conditions, he was more 
interested in the effect of monetary policy on spending and 
Ending decisions. He had asked long ago for a study of how 
a given directive to the Desk carried through to the real 
economy, but he had been told that the staff did not know the 
answers. 
it was possible that through the discount window 

5/28/68 
_ 
23-
mechanism a more direct linkage would be found. Apprehension 
had been expressed about slack between the Committee's directives 
and the money market, but the slack he was concerned about was that 
between the directives and the real economy. 
President Hayes then commented that there was a tendency 
in the report to suggest that the provision of funds through the 
discount window would be a substitute for the injection of funds 
through open market operations. In the judgment of his Securities 
and Research Departments, it was not going to work that way. It 
was not going to be a matter of supplying funds through the dis-
count window in lieu of open market operations. An unknown factor 
would be introduced that could affect what the Desk had to do in 
either direction, without even knowing in which direction. He 
did not share the hope that Governor Maisel had expressed. Most 
of the appeal would be to the small banks, in his opinion, and 
in terms of dollars their borrowings probably would not be a 
large proportion of the reserves put into the banking system. 
The large banks would not be aided very much, and possibly the 
image effect would be perverse. In the judgment of his staff 
on whose operations the proposals would have an effect, the 
operations would be made more difficult,, 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the difficulty of carry-
ing out operations should not be a fundamental consideration. He 

5/28/68 
_ 
24-
noted that several memoranda concerning the effect on open market 
operations were included in the files of the discount study and 
that the question appeared to come down to a controversy between 
technicians 
No one knew for certain, but he did not feel that 
a bas ic judgment should be reached on the ground that people be-
lieved adoption of the proposals would make their own task more 
difficult, 
President Hayes inquired whether the Steering Committee 
had fully debated the merits of liberalizing the discount window 
without adopting a system of credit lines, and Governor Mitchell 
replied that some members of the Committee were quite sensitive 
to the lack of uniformity in the administration of the discount 
windows that showed up in the analyses prepared for the Committee. 
He did not recall that the Committee had considered simply rewriting 
Regulation A with a view to achieving greater uniformity., It was 
felt that the way to obtain more uniformity was to have a rule 
that a certain amount of borrowing could be done essentially on 
a no-questions-asked basis, Such a rule would take care of a lot 
°f relatively small and infrequent borrowing on an absolutely 
uniform basis, 
President Hayes said he had never accepted the theory 
that lack of uniformity was a major problem, and Governor Mitchell 
replied that he thought the documentation was conclusive. 

19 
5/28/68 
-25-
Governor Sherrill said that he would favor exposing the 
report to bankers to ascertain their views. Today's discussion 
had brought out several important points. There was the question 
when surveillance would begin, and it would seem desirable to spell 
that out more carefully in the report. The question of qualification 
for the basic borrowing privilege also should be straightened out 
before the report was distributed. As to the effect on open market 
operations, it did not appear that a great deal could be learned 
from bankers on that question. As to the announcement effect of 
discount rate changes, he was not keen about preserving that particular 
effect. The major need, however, was to place the report before 
bankers to obtain their views. No one had brought up a basic 
question—widely shared--on any part of the report that indicated 
the report should not see the light of day. 
President Francis said it was not clear to him why so much 
emphasis was being given to the basic line of borrowing because 
nothing was as automatic as initial access to the discount window 
today. In his view, the multi-layer system of granting credit 
Would increase administrative problems; it would necessitate a 
number of calculations that he would prefer to avoid. Further, he 
doubted whether adoption of the proposals would really help banks 
in the hinterlands that had basic problems. More fundamental steps 
Were needed in those cases to keep the banks alive and enable them 

5/28/68 
_ 
26-
to serve their communities. Such banks had structural problems that 
lines of credit with date and amount limitations would not solve. 
Governor Mitchell replied that a small banker had recently 
told him that he could serve his community better if he knew with 
certainty what credit he could obtain from the Federal Reserve 
Bank on what terms. He could then manage his portfolio quite dif-
ferently^ 
President Ellis asked whether the basic right of borrowing 
could not be attached to the single factor of frequency, and 
Governor Mitchell said the Steering Committee preferred not to 
give up some limitation on the amount of borrowing. The proposals, 
he added, did not contemplate a tremendous increase in Federal 
Reserve credit through exercise of the basic borrowing privilege, 
father, it was envisaged that the aggregate amount would be rela-
tively low. 
President Hayes reiterated his dislike of the basic line 
concept. If the limitations were established on a fairly conserva-
tive basis, he could see some hope of keeping down the aggregates 
S o that they could be dealt with effectively, but that would reduce 
the value of the borrowing line to the banks. On the other hand, 
a substantial liberalization to make the basic line a significant 
oenefit to banks would magnify the problems to which he had earlier 
deferred. 

5/28/68 
_ 
27-
Governor Robertson commented that at this point everyone 
knew the discount study had reached a certain stage. Although there 
might be a number of items that were not entirely clear, it was now 
time to obtain reactions. There was, of course, the question how 
the proposals would actually apply to large and small banks. In 
his view, something would be gained in terms of the smaller banks, 
but something would be lost through the use of language indicating 
that Federal Reserve credit would be available on a no-questions-
asked basis. Also, changes of terminology might be helpful to 
avoid unnecessary references to surveillance. Criticism should be 
expected from the larger banks, who would say that the Federal 
Reserve was trying to undercut the correspondent banking system, 
and there would undoubtedly be a number of other complaints, 
Neverthel ess, it seemed to him that it was necessary to move ahead 
and obtain reactions. The views of the Federal Advisory Council 
would be available to the Board next week, and the Board would 
consider the question of sending copies of the report to Reserve 
Bank directors on a confidential basis. After June 18, he would 
hope that the System would be prepared to move forward promptly. 
In the meantime, editorial work could be done on the report along 
the lines suggested by today's discussion. 
Governor Robertson also noted that it now seemed likely 
that a tax bill would be enacted in the near future that would 

i960 
5/28/68 
_ 28-
call for a reduction of $6 billion of Government expenditures in 
fiscal 1969, which would mean that the budget of every Government 
agency would be significantly affected. It was incumbent on the 
Federal Reserve System, in that kind of situation, to review its own 
programs and determine what capital expenditures and other outlays 
could reasonably be deferred- 
A start had been made within the 
Board's organization to approach the problem systematically to see 
where cuts could be made, and every Federal Reserve Bank should 
do the same. 
As soon as the Board's study of its own operations 
was completed, the Board would be in touch with the Presidents to 
urge that the Reserve Banks take similar action. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
