Minutes for March 27, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. if you were present at the meeting, your 
lr*itials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
0nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1175 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 27, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Noble, Sanders, and Cloth, and Mrs. 
Heller of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Greenspun and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Lyon and Burton, and Miss Greene of the 
Division of Examinations 
Branch application (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval was 
to the application of Bloomsburg Bank-Columbia Trust Company, 
°°msburg, Pennsylvania, to establish a branch in Scott Township. A 
°Py of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
^ Attended morning session only. 

1176 
3/27/67 
-11-
Application of Allied Bankshares Corp. There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated March 15, 
1967, and other pertinent papers concerning the application of Allied 
Bankshares Corp., Norfolk, Virginia, for permission to become a bank 
holding company by acquiring more than 50 per cent of the voting shares 
°f each of two banks, Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, Virginia, and 
The Central National Bank of Richmond, Richmond, Virginia. The 
Richmond Reserve Bank and the Division of Examinations recommended 
favorably, while the Banking Markets Section recommended unfavorably. 
Following summary comments by Mr. Lyon, Governor Shepardson 
raised a question about a statement in the Division's memorandum that 
consummation of the proposal would alleviate an imbalance existing 
among the three largest banking organizations in the State. While 
formation of Allied Bankshares would create an organization closer in 
dePosit size to United Virginia Bankshares, First & Merchants National 
Bank (Richmond) would remain in its present third rank considerably 
below the first two. 
In reply, Mr. Lyon commented that the imbalance referred to was 
n°t one of deposit size, but rather one of disparity in market coverage 
8e°graphically. 
Governor Daane added that consummation of the proposal would 
a l s o put Central National Bank in a stronger competitive position 
vis-a-vis the three larger banks in Richmond. 

1V7 
3/27/67 
-3-
Governor Brimmer inquired whether there was evidence that 
Virg inia National Bank, which had been quite aggressive in growth 
through mergers, would cease its efforts to enter the attractive 
Richmond market if the application were denied. 
Mr. Lyon replied that there was no reason to believe such would 
necessarily be the case. 
Governor Daane inquired why Governor Brimmer felt it would be 
preferable for Virginia National to be associated with a smaller Richmond 
bank than Central National, to which Governor Brimmer replied that 
Gentral National was already in a satisfactory competitive position and 
his view it would be an advantage to have still another vigorous, 
*arge banking organization competing in Richmond. 
Governor Daane commented that to deny this application would 
Per*alize Central National because its growth opportunities as an 
independent bank appeared to be limited. 
Governor Robertson observed that if the pending proposal were 
to K 
b e consummated there would be some elimination of existing competi-
among banks for overline participations in loans originated by 
Gentral National, since that business presumably would all go to 
Vlrginia National. 
Governor Mitchell drew attention to Central National's demand 
d Q 
P°sit structure, noting among other things that the proportion attrib-
utabla 
i e to interbank deposits suggested quite an active interest in doing 
Usiness for other banks relative to Central's size. 

3/27/67 
-11-
Governor Daane questioned whether that was a valid conclusion. 
As late as 1960, he recalled, Central National was not a vigorous com-
petitor throughout the State for interbank deposits. 
Mr. Solomon noted that information furnished by the Richmond 
Reserve Bank showed that Central National's interbank deposits as of 
m3.d-1966 were about 6.5 per cent of the State total, contrasted with 29 
Per cent for State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts, 29 per cent for 
First & Merchants National Bank, 10 per cent for First National Exchange 
Bank of Virginia (Roanoke), and 6.27 per cent for Bank of Virginia. 
Turning to another phase of the matter, Governor Daane stated 
ttlat it w a s his impression that the holding company proposal was prob-
ably developed by mutual accord rather than by Virginia National 
Verting strong pressure on Central National. 
Mr. Solomon thought that was likely, because from the standpoint 
O £ 
operating and competitive considerations these two banks would tend 
gravitate toward each other to complement their existing positions. 
Mr. Smith then presented the views of the Banking Markets 
^ection,.explaining the reasons for the Section's recommendation that 
the aPplication be denied. According to the Section's analysis, affil-
iat • n °f the largest and the sixth largest banks in the State would 
^ttinate potential competition between them and would, in the long 
Un> have an adverse effect upon banking development because of the 
fu 
rther concentration of resources in a relatively few large banking 

3/27/67 
-11-
organizations. It would appear to be a healthier alternative for 
Virginia National to enter the Richmond area either de novo or through 
affiliation with a smaller bank. While Central National was not par-
ticularly aggressive, it was large enough to hold its own competitively. 
It had good management and was effectively operated, and it appeared 
capable of expanding its market coverage independently if management so 
desired. In sum, the Section concluded that there would be little con-
tribution, if any, to accommodating the banking convenience and needs 
°f the Richmond area from consummation of the proposed transaction, and 
there would be an adverse competitive effect. 
Governor Daane inquired whether it was realistic to expect that 
Antral National would become the competitive force projected by the 
banking Markets Section. It was under ownership whose philosophy con-
Cerning growth and expansion was decidedly conservative, as evidenced 
ky the absence of aggressive activity to date. 
Mr. Solomon suggested that while in the past the bank had not 
thought in terms of State-wide operations, management might now be 
^eginning to feel that the policy of local orientation was ill-advised, 
holding company proposal was an attractive vehicle for remedying 
the 
competitive disadvantage such policy had occasioned. He had the 
mPression, from discussion with officials of the Richmond Reserve Bank, 
+.1 
a t such was the case. 
Governor Brimmer expressed doubt that, if Virginia National 
co enter the Richmond market in some way other than through 

1180 
3/27/67 
-11-
consummation of the present proposal, Central National would stand idly 
by while its competitive position was eroded away. Mr. Smith added the 
thought that if Virginia National were to come into competition with 
Central National in Richmond, such a development might influence the 
latter bank toward expansion as a matter of self-defense. 
Governor Daane, on the other hand, stated that while he was 
confident that Central National had ties in Richmond that would keep 
x t a relatively strong local competitor, he doubted whether there was 
a reasonable expectation for a move toward expanded operations if the 
bank remained independent. 
Governor Brimmer commented that perhaps it would be sufficient 
to have Central National, a conservative, well-run bank, in its present 
P°sture in Richmond, leaving State-wide expansion to the more vigorous 
°rganizations such as Virginia National. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that it would be presumptuous 
o f the Board to seek to select a particular bank in Richmond with which 
Virginia National should be allowed to affiliate. In his opinion, 
Vir • 
gmia National should be allowed access to the same competitive 
stages enjoyed by other large banking organizations in the State. 
°nsummation of the pending proposal would tend to even out the competi-
*"Ve situation in Richmond, and he questioned whether the Board should 
sub. 
means by which this beneficial result was to be accomplished. 
stitute its judgment for that of the two banks involved concerning 
the 

1181 
3/27/67 
-11-
Governor Shepardson commented that this was a difficult case. 
Present competition between the two banks was not significant, and it 
appeared that there would be a real advantage in joining together their 
complementary activities. On the other hand, he was concerned about 
the concentration aspect, and about foreclosing the possibility for two 
strong and competitive State-wide banking organizations to evolve. He 
could see advantages to encouraging the development of wider-reaching 
affiliate relationships because there was some question in his mind 
whether correspondent arrangements always served adequately the needs 
°f smaller banks and their communities. While the current proposal 
Presented some disturbing implications with respect to the matter of 
concentration, on balance he favored approval. 
Governor Mitchell stated that he would deny the application, 
Principally for the reasons advanced by the Banking Markets Section, 
^hile the record showed that banking concentration in Virginia was not 
Presently as great as in North and South Carolina, the trend was just 
Setting under way, and he believed there had been a larger increase in 
c°ncentration in Virginia than in any other State in the past four 
^ars. He agreed that there was a need for State-wide banking systems, 
he felt that development of as many as possible should be encouragec 
Corisidering Virginia National's aggressiveness, he was quite confident 
tllat it would enter the Richmond market in one way or another if this 
aPplication were denied. Denial would leave Central National a strong 

1182 
3/27/67 
-8-
local competitor, with potential for development of a branch network 
if it chose to pursue that course. In sum, he felt the present case 
involved a proposal that was hostile to the public interest. 
Governor Daane commented that in his view the proposal was in 
the public interest. While Virginia National no doubt would pursue 
efforts to get into Richmond, he did not think it appropriate for 
the Board to try to dictate exactly how that should be accomplished. 
The two institutions here concerned had been discussing an affiliation 
over a long period of time, they wanted to move ahead, and the compet-
ltive situation in Richmond would be strengthened. If the application 
were denied, Central National would be penalized. While there were 
arguments that could be made to justify either approval or denial, he 
leaned toward approval for the reasons advanced by the Division of 
Examinations. 
Governor Brimmer commended the Banking Markets Section for its 
analysis of the situation, not only as it existed but prospectively, 
and expressed accord with the conclusion that approval of the applica-
tion would be hostile to the public interest, both in the short and 
long run. There was no evidence that Virginia National would become 
s 11 
uSgish and give up its move toward becoming a large efficient bank-
organization. Neither did he see evidence that Central National 
^uid be satisfied to sit by and see its local market erode or opportu-
nities for expansion remain unexplored. In fact, denial of this appli-
Cat* -} 
ion might stimulate Central to become more aggressive, while approval 

1183 
3/27/67 
-11-
would foreclose the opportunity to see whether that hypothesis was 
correct. With the Virginia banking structure at a stage where it was 
evolving so rapidly, he would not want to foreclose the outcome lightly. 
Governor Robertson also felt that the application should be 
denied, for the reasons stated by Governors Mitchell and Brimmer and by 
the Banking Markets Section. He did not believe there would be suffi-
cient benefit to the public interest to outweigh the additional concen-
tration of banking resources and anticompetitive effects that would 
result, including the preclusion of potential competition. 
Chairman Martin indicated that he too would vote to deny the 
aPplication. 
Accordingly, the application was denied, Governors Shepardson 
and Daane dissenting, with the understanding that an order and state-
ment would be drafted for the Board's consideration, along with a 
dissenting statement. 
Dissemination of information (Item No. 2). There had been 
distributed under date of March 23, 1967, a draft of answers prepared 
hy the Legal Division in response to a request from the Chairman of 
fche Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure of the Senate 
Judiciary Committee for information concerning practices followed in 
the dissemination of information to the public during fiscal years 
1964-1965 on matters in dispute between the agency and members of the 
Public. 

11 
3/27/67 
-10-
Following discussion and adoption of certain editorial changes 
transmittal of the reply was authorized. A copy is attached to these 
minutes as Item No. 2. 
During consideration of the foregoing item Mr. Forrestal, 
Senior Attorney, Legal Division, entered the room. 
Matter involving Regulations D and Q (Item No. 3). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated March 23, 
1967, discussing the question whether promissory notes issued by an 
Edge Act subsidiary to its parent bank constitute "deposits" for pur-
Poses of the Board's Regulations D (Reserves of Member Banks) and Q 
(Payment of Interest on Deposits). This issue had been raised by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York in a letter dated January 27, 1967, 
because of a practice of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company (New York City) 
whereby that bank transferred certain foreign loans to its Edge Act 
affiliates in exchange for their promissory notes, endorsed such notes 
and offered them for sale under repurchase agreement. 
This practice developed subsequent to the Board's adoption of 
sections 204.1(f) of Regulation D and 217.1(f) of Regulation Q, which 
read in part as follows: 
"For the purposes of this part, the term 'deposits' 
shall be deemed to include any promissory note, acknowl-
edgment of advance, due bill, or similar instrument that 
is issued by a member bank principally as a means of 
obtaining funds to be used in its banking business, except 
any such instrument (1) that is issued to another bank, 
(2) that evidences an indebtedness arising from a transfer 
of assets that the bank is obligated to repurchase, or 
(3) that has an original maturity of more than two years 
and states expressly that it is subordinated to the claims 
of depositors." 

1185 
3/27/67 
-11-
Morgan Guaranty had theretofore followed the practice of issuing its 
own acknowledgments of advances as a means of obtaining funds for use 
in its banking business and opposed the Board's proposal to include 
funds received by such advances as "deposits". 
By letter of August 24, 1966, the bank's counsel expressed the 
opinion that Edge corporation notes held by the bank, "like the notes 
evidencing any other loan by Morgan Guaranty, will be assets of Morgan 
Guaranty which, if sold by Morgan Guaranty under repurchase agreements, 
will not give rise to 'deposits' of Morgan Guaranty within the meaning 
°f section 204.1(f) of Federal Reserve Regulation D or section 217.1(f) 
of Federal Reserve Regulation Q." 
The Reserve Bank's letter stated that "regardless of Morgan 
Guaranty's motives in instituting the practice, . . . the practice has 
the effect of enabling Morgan Guaranty (and other banks having Edge 
A c t affiliates) to escape the effect of the recent amendments to 
Regu lations D and Q which defined as 'deposits' promissory notes of 
Member banks, and thus to generate short-term funds to support credit 
expansion without maintaining reserves in respect of such funds and 
Wlthout regard to statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment 
°f interest on deposits." 
The Reserve Bank recommended amendment of the pertinent sections 
o f Regulations D and Q. It concluded that interpretation of the provi-
sions thereof as requiring notes of affiliates sold by the parent bank 

1186 
3/27/67 
-11-
to be considered "deposits" for purposes of Regulations D and Q would 
appear "to raise substantial legal questions, in that it may be regarded 
as requiring the construction of regulatory language in a way that is 
not consistent with the plain meaning of the words." 
The Legal Division did not share this concern. Its memorandum 
Pointed out that in interpreting and applying Federal banking law the 
Board had frequently, and quite properly, disregarded separate incorpo-
ration of a wholly-owned affiliate of a bank in instances where the law 
limited the activities of the bank. There was sound legal precedent for 
considering an action by a wholly-owned subsidiary of a bank as an action 
by the bank for purposes of Federal law and regulations relating to bank-
ing. 
The question that remained was whether any useful purpose would 
be served by condemning this particular practice of Morgan Guaranty. The 
Memorandum concluded that, theoretically, almost every indebtedness of a 
bank arising out of a funds transaction must be considered a deposit if 
the provisions of section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act were to be fully 
effective. Exempting funds obtained through repurchase agreements could 
b e justified only if necessary to achieve some more important purpose--
S u ch as assuring an adequate market in Government securities. Where such 
reasons do not exist, the basic purposes and the requirements of sec-
tion 19 must be effected and enforced. Thus, it was recommended that the 
Board rule the. transactions in question gave rise to "deposits" of Morgan 
GlJaranty. 

1187 
3/27/67 
-11-
Procedurally, the memorandum suggested that perhaps amendment 
of Regulations D and Q, as suggested by the Reserve Bank, would be 
advisable in that it would avoid an interpretation that might appear 
to disregard specific regulatory provisions. On the other hand, that 
would be a time-consuming process, involving the publication of a notice 
°f proposed rule making and allowing an appropriate period for comment. 
Accordingly, it was believed that an effort should be made to 
resolve the problem informally by communicating with Morgan Guaranty 
through the New York Reserve Bank. Since Morgan Guaranty was the only 
bank known to have adopted the practice in question, there appeared to 
be no substantial reason for publishing even an interpretation if the 
latter could be resolved on an informal basis. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York setting forth the view that the promissory 
notes in question were "deposits" for purposes of Regulations D and Q 
and requesting that this conclusion be communicated to Morgan Guaranty. 
After discussion, transmittal of the letter was authorized. A 
CoPy is attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff attend-
ance . 
Discount rate. Reference was made to a staff memorandum that 
had been distributed under date of March 23, 1967, for Board reference 
lri the course of any discussion of a possible decrease in Federal Reserve 

1188 
3/27/67 
-11-
Bank discount rates. The paper discussed the economic background, the 
relationship of the discount rate question to financial markets, the 
advantages and disadvantages of a rate reduction from 4-1/2 to 4-1/4 per 
cent, the advantages and disadvantages of a reduction to 4 per cent, the 
question of timing, and certain elements seen as critical in the deci-
sion. 
Governor Daane, who was to be away from Washington for the next 
several days, said his thinking leaned in the direction of approval of 
a decrease in the discount rate. In terms of the magnitude of a change, 
he was more inclined to think in terms of a 1/4 point than a 1/2 point 
reduction. Some action on the discount rate would be a further demon-
stration of the flexibility of monetary policy. However, he felt that 
the System had already given the market ample assurance in terms of the 
availability of reserves through its open market operations and through 
the recent reduction of reserve requirements. Therefore, he would be 
lnclined toward a 1/4 point discount rate reduction unless the System 
Wanted to say to the market that it was going to move all the way toward 
ease at this juncture. It might want to do that in a matter of weeks, 
but he thought it better to take a step at a time and at this juncture 
simply say to the market that current rate levels were viable. In other 
w°rds, a 1/4 point reduction would tend to confirm the rate movement 
^at had occurred in the market, while a reduction of 1/2 point would 
k® more likely to arouse market expectations. 

1189 
3/27/67 
-11-
As to the staff memorandum, Governor Daane said he read it to 
indicate that loan demand was considered very weak. He was not sure 
that that was provable. Loan demand might be weak in some areas, but his 
contacts did not give him the impression of a real downslide. Also, he 
questioned whether, if the discount rate were reduced to 4 per cent and 
that provoked some downward movement in bank lending rates, such a change 
would necessarily spark a large additional loan demand. 
As to timing, Governor Daane said he thought it would be desir-
able to await the discussion at the meeting of the Open Market Committee 
Tuesday, April 4. He did not see any necessity for more urgency. 
Governor Brimmer said that if advice of action to change the 
discount rate should be received from the Board of Directors of a Federal 
Reserve Bank, he would want to study that action on its own merits, in 
terms of timing, rather than to say arbitrarily at this point that the 
matter would be held over. 
Further on the question of timing, Mr. Brill said he would like 
to comment on a point he had discussed last Friday with Governor Maisel. 
Governor Maisel had expressed concern that action on the discount rate 
n o t follow immediately upon the announcement of any further pessimistic 
news of significance about the economy. In terms of the unemployment 
^ate, Mr. Brill continued, there were indications that an announcement 
Would be made of an increase of between .2 and .4 of a percentage point 
for March. The timing of such announcement was not yet firm, but it 

1190 
3/27/67 
-11-
was estimated that the release would be made around the 10th of 
April. 
Governor Daane suggested that a discount rate reduction of 
1/2 point might give the impression of pushing the panic button. If 
the reduction was only to 4-1/4 per cent, it would be possible to con-
sider another similar reduction in short order if that seemed desirable. 
Mr. Brill observed that market rates likely would have moved 
down further by the time advice was received of action by the directors 
°f a Reserve Bank to reduce the discount rate. The bill rate might 
then be down to around 4 per cent. 
Governor Daane replied that he would still be inclined to reduce 
the discount rate only to 4-1/4 per cent, one reason being that he felt 
the U.S. was now in a vulnerable zone, or at least approaching it, in 
terms of international rate relationships. 
Governor Robertson commented that by this fall the System might 
he in a position where it would want to move the discount rate up. That 
would suggest taking advantage of the present circumstances to reduce 
the rate sufficiently so that it would be feasible to move up if and 
when circumstances warranted. 
Operations subsidiaries. Chairman Martin reported that he had 
received questions from the President of the First National Bank of 
Boston relating to that bank's desire to establish a subsidiary to 
eri§age in the travel card business, factoring, and certain other things. 

1191 
3/27/67 
-11-
He said that he had been deferring a reply. He recalled that a staff 
memorandum on operations subsidiaries had been discussed preliminarily 
by the Board, with the understanding that the subject would be given 
further consideration in the near future. 
Governor Robertson noted that as of the moment the Board's 
published position was that the law does not permit State member banks 
to invest in operations subsidiaries. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he had received a telephone call 
from a representative of the Justice Department asking if the Depart-
ment could establish liaison with the Federal Reserve to discuss the 
Sys tern's approach to credit cards. He said that the Department would 
be put in touch with appropriate members of the Board's staff and that 
he would keep the Board informed of developments. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
4:00 p.m. with Chairman Martin and Governors Shepardson, Mitchell, 
Daane, and Brimmer present. Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, and Hackley of 
the staff also were present. 
Discount rate. The Secretary advised that a telegram had been 
received from the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston stating that the Bank's 
Board of Directors, at its meeting this morning, had established a rate 
4-1/4 per cent on advances and discounts to member banks under sec-
tions 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act along with appropriately 
corresponding secondary rates, subject to review and determination by 
the Board of Governors. 

1192 
3/27/67 
-11-
Chairman Martin noted that although Governor Robertson was not 
available this afternoon he had thought it advisable for the Board to 
meet in view of Governor Daane's forthcoming absence for the next few 
days and since Governor Brimmer had mentioned this morning that he 
would want to consider the timing of any proposed discount rate action 
in terms of a concrete proposal rather than in the abstract. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the general question of a rate 
reduction, including the magnitude of any change, could profitably be 
discussed at the meeting of the Open Market Committee on Tuesday, April 4, 
and Mr. Sherman stated that by April 6 meetings of at least five Federal 
Reserve Bank Boards of Directors would be held. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether it was being suggested that 
a decision by the Board should await advice that several more Reserve 
Banks wanted to change their rates, and Chairman Martin replied that if 
the directors of other Reserve Banks did not act to change their rates 
next week the Board could still act on the Boston proposal. 
Governor Daane said that he would be willing to accept the 1/4 
Point reduction proposed by the Boston Bank. However, he thought it 
would be better to take more time to develop the reasoning as to whether 
a 1/4 point reduction would be more appropriate than a reduction to 4 per 
Cent. He saw an advantage in following a procedure that had been fol-
lowed from time to time in the past, that is, of holding over the Boston 
Proposal temporarily without action. 

1193 
3/27/67 
-11-
Governor Brimmer suggested that the Board might benefit from a 
presentation and discussion by its staff, possibly before the Open 
Market Committee meeting. 
Chairman Martin commented that although he would not be avail-
able next Monday the other Board members could discuss the matter then 
if they so desired, following which Governor Shepardson expressed agree-
ment with the view that the Boston proposal should be held in abeyance 
until the Board had accumulated more information on the basis of which 
to reach a decision. He suggested that discussion at the Open Market 
Committee meeting next Tuesday should lay the groundwork for action on 
Thursday, April 6. Governor Brimmer agreed. 
Governor Daane asked what would be done immediately on the 
Boston matter, and Chairman Martin said he could call President Ellis 
°n the telephone and advise him of the Board's thinking on procedure. 
Chairman Martin then asked Mr. Sherman to report a telephone 
conversation that the latter had had with Governor Maisel, who was in 
Boston today and had attended the meeting of the Bank's Board of 
Directors. 
Mr. Sherman said Governor Maisel reported that he did not say 
anything until after the vote had been taken by the Board of Directors. 
After the vote was taken the directors asked him for his reaction and 
made some remarks about the amount of the proposed reduction, saying 
that he was not sure whether a 1/4 point reduction was appropriate today, 

1194 
3/27/67 
-11-
although it might have been a while ago. Governor Maisel did not think 
the directors would be at all surprised if several days elapsed before 
i 
any notice of action on the proposed rate was received from the Board 
of Governors. 
Chairman Martin suggested that Mr. Sherman could let Governor 
Maisel know that the thinking of the Board was to defer action until 
after the Open Market Committee meeting on April 4, barring unforeseen 
developments in the interim. 
Travel by Mr. Hersey. Arthur B. Hersey, Adviser in the Division 
of International Finance, was authorized to attend a meeting of the 
Short-Term Forecasting Group of the Organization for Economic Coopera-
tion and Development to be held in Paris April 5-7, 1967, his travel to 
be on the basis of the Standardized Government Travel Regulations. 
Trip by Governor Brimmer. Governor Brimmer advised the Board 
that he had been invited to attend a meeting at the Ditchley Foundation 
in mid-June, that he had also received an invitation to visit the Bank 
°f England, and that he had in mind a trip that would combine the two 
visits. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to Professor Edwin L. Stevens, Washington, D. C., confirming 
arrangements for him to conduct a 24-hour course in effective oral com-
munication for members of the Board's staff as an activity of the Board's 
Eniployee Training and Development Program at a fee of $1,000. 

1195 
3/27/67 
-11-
Memorandum from the Division of Data Processing recommending an 
increase in the basic annual salary of James L. Ellis, Computer Operator 
(Trainee) in that Division, from $4,936 to $5,096, effective March 26, 
1967. 
Secre 

1196 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
•Sues*? 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 1 
3/27/67 
March 27, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Bloomsburg Bank-Columbia 
Trust Company, 
Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen% 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Bloomsburg Bank-
Columbia Trust Company, Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania, of a 
branch on the north side of U. S. Route 11 approximately 
1,500 feet west of the intersection of Espy-Light Street 
Road and U. S. Route 11, Scott Township, Columbia County, 
Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's approval of the establishment by 
your bank of a branch in Scott Town Shopping Center, 
U. S. Route 11, Scott Township, Columbia County, 
Pennsylvania, is hereby rescinded. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
1197 
OF T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 2 
3/27/67 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2Q5SI 
OFFICE OF THE 
CHAlRMAf-l 
March 27, 1967 
The Honorable Edward V. Long, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Administrative Practice 
and Procedure, 
United States Senate, 
3214 New Senate Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Pursuant to the request contained in your letter of 
February 28, 1967, there is enclosed a memorandum containing 
the Board's answers to your Subcommittee's questionnaire con-
cerning the dissemination of information to the public during 
fiscal years 1964-1966. 
Sincerely y >urs 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 
Enclosure 

DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC 
BY THE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
RE 
MATTERS IN DISPUTE BETWEEN THE BOARD 
AND MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC 
Answers to questionnaire (dated February 28, 1967) submitted 
by the Senate Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure. 
A'e Alleged violations of agency rules or regulations: 
1. Estimate the total number of press releases 
for each of the years in the period under review; 
1. No press releases were issued by the Board concerning 
alleged violations of agency rules or regulations for the period 
under review (FY 1964-1966). It is not the practice of the Board 
to issue press releases concerning "alleged" violations of the 
Board's rules or regulations. 
2. How were these materials disseminated? 
2. Not applicable. 
3. Do you have any policy in regard to allowing 
the adverse party an opportunity to present in the 
same press release his position on the matter in issue? 
3. No. 
4. List any private organizations or individual 
consultants hired by your agency for public information 
services during the period under review and state the 
amount paid in each instance. 
4. None. 
5. Please provide two copies of all intra-agency 
regulations, administrative orders, directives, rules, 
instructions, legal opinions, etc., which pertain directly 
to the matters covered in the above questions. Also, 
please cite statutes, court decisions, and executive 
orders which pertain directly to the above matters. 
1198 

1199 
-2-
5. The Board has no regulations, administrative orders, 
directives, rules, instructions, legal opinions, or other materials 
that are directly pertinent to the subject matter of the above 
questions. However, the Board, in implementing its system for 
developing, preparing, and releasing information to the public, 
acts in accordance with the following regulatory and statutory pro-
visions, where applicable, which are set forth with the thought that 
they may be of interest in connection with your inquiry; section 261.1, 
261.2. and 261.3 of the Board's Rules Regarding Information, 
Submittals, and Requests, section 262.2(f)(7) of the Board's Rules 
of Procedure, section 263.2 of the Board's Rules of Practice, and 
section 264.735-6(f) of the Board's Standards of Employee Responsibil-
ities and Conduct (12 CFR 261.1, 261.2, 261.3, 262.2(f)(7), 263.2, 
and 264.735-6(f)), two copies of which are enclosed, dealing with 
Published and unpublished information; the public information 
Provisions of sections 3 and 4(a) of the Administrative Procedure 
Act (5 U.S.C. 552, 553 (Sept. 1966 ed)) (Note: - The Freedom of 
Information Act, Public Law 89-487, 80 Stat. 250, became law after 
the end of fiscal year 1966 and will become effective July 4, 1967); 
and the reporting requirements of sections 10, 11(a), and 14(b) of 
the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 247, 247a, 248(a), 355), section 
2[18](c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the Bank Merger Act) 
(12 U.S.C. 1828(c), as amended in 1966 by Public Law 89-356, 80 
Stat, 7), section 5(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1844(d)), and section 23(b) of the Securities Exchange 
A ct of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78w(b)). 

1 200 
B. Cases pending before agency hearing examiner or appeal boards; 
1. Estimate the total number of press releases 
for each of the years in the period under review; 
1. No press releases were issued by the Board concerning 
cases pending before agency hearing examiners or appeal boards in 
the period under review. Dissemination of information to the 
public is usually made only after the Board has reached its decision. 
However, one press release was issued, by the Board in FY 1964, with 
regard to a presentation before it of oral argument in connection 
with two applications pending under the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956. The press release was issued after the hearing examiner 
had submitted his Report and Recommended Decision, but before the 
Board had made any determination. The press release described 
arrangements for the oral arguments, and contained a copy of the 
Board's Order. 
One press release was issued by the Board in FY 1966, 
stating that the Board had received the hearing examiner's Report 
and Recommended Decision, in connection with an application pending 
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The press release 
announced the hearing examiner's recommendation, and contained a 
copy of his Report and Recommended Decision. 
2. How were these materials disseminated? 
2. These materials were distributed to the parties involved, 
to the Federal Reserve Banks, to the press by mail or by delivery 
service, and to appropriate governmental authorities. 

-4-
1201 
3. Do you have any policy in regard to allowing 
the adverse party an opportunity to present in the 
same press release his position on the matter in issue? 
3. No. 
4. List any private organizations or individual 
consultants hired by your agency for public information 
services during the period under review and state the 
amount paid in each instance. 
4. None. 
5. Please provide two copies of all intra-agency 
regulations, administrative orders, directives, rules, 
instructions, legal opinions, etc., which pertain 
directly to the matters covered in the above questions. 
Also, please cite statutes, court decisions, and execu-
tive orders which pertain directly to the above matters. 
5. Refer to answer A-5, above. 
C* Cases pending in the Courts in which the agency is an adverse 
party; 
1. Estimate the total number of press releases 
for each of the years in the period under review; 
1. No press releases were issued by the Board concerning 
cases pending in the Courts in which the Board was an adverse party 
for the period under review. 
2. How were these materials disseminated? 
2. Not applicable. 
3. Do you have any policy in regard to allowing the 
adverse party an opportunity to present in the same press 
release his position on the matter in issue? 
3. No. 

1202 
4. List any private organizations or individual 
consultants hired by your agency for public information 
services during the period under review and state the 
amount paid in each instance. 
4. None. 
5. Please provide two copies of all intra-agency 
regulations, administrative orders, directives,^rules, 
instructions, legal opinions, etc., which pertain 
directly to the matters covered in the above questions. 
Also, please cite statutes, court decisions, and execu-
tive orders which pertain,directly to the above matters. 
5. Refer to answer A-5, above. 
D. Any other pending agency action which may result in the imposition 
of a "sanction", ad defined in the Administrative Procedure Act 
(5 U.S.C. 1001(f)). 
1. Estimate the total number of press releases 
for each of the years in the period under review; 
1. No press releases were issued by the Board concerning 
such pending agency action for the period under review. 
2. How were these materials disseminated? 
2. Not applicable. 
3. Do you have any policy in regard to allowing the 
adverse party an opportunity to present in the same press 
release his position on the matter in issue? 
3. No. 
4. List any private organizations or individual 
consultants hired by your agency for public information 
services during the period under review and state the 
amount paid in each instance. 
4. None. 

-6-
120.3 
5. Please provide two copies of all intra-agency 
regulations, administrative orders, directives, rules, 
instructions, legal opinions, etc., which pertain 
directly to the matters covered in the above questions. 
Also, please cite statutes, court decisions, and 
executive orders which pertain directly to the above 
matters. 
5. Refer to answer A-5, above. 

1204 
RESt-V 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
3/27/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 28, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
This is in response to your letter of January 27, 1967, 
in which you suggested that the Board amend section 204.1(f) and 
section 217.1(f) of Regulations D and Q, respectively, relating to 
inclusion of promissory notes as "deposits", to provide that such 
notes "when issued by an affiliate (as defined in Section 2 of the 
Banking Act of 1933, as amended) of a member bank, are deposit 
liabilities of that member bank if sold by the member bank, even if 
sold under repurchase agreement." 
This suggestion arises out of a practice that Morgan 
Guaranty Trust Company put into use after the Board adopted sec-
tions 204.1(f) and 217.1(f). Under this practice, the bank transfers 
foreign loans to its wholly-owned Edge Act affiliates in exchange 
-or the promissory notes of such affiliates, endorses such notes, 
and sells them under repurchase agreements. 
Unless the funds thereby received are considered deposits 
°f Morgan Guaranty for the purposes of Regulations D and Q, the 
effect of the practice, as you point out, is to furnish the bank 
with a means for obtaining additional funds to support credit expansion 
Wl-thout maintaining reserves against such funds and without regard 
t o statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of interest on 
dePosits. Sections 204.1(f) and 217.1(f) were adopted by the Board 
t° curtail such avoidance of those regulations and the provisions of 
Section 19 of the Federal. Reserve Act upon which they are based. 
For administrative reasons, particularly the time involved 
the adoption of amendments and the general undesirability of 
requent amendments, the Board prefers to handle the matter on an 
lnformal basis. This seems especially appropriate in this case, since 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1205 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
-2-
the practice has not been adopted by any other bank, as far as we 
know. Certainly others could develop a similar practice, and if 
that should occur the Board might consider it necessary to follow 
your suggestion for regulatory amendments, or to publish an inter-
pretation of the present regulatory provisions. 
The sole legal question to be resolved is whether, in 
connection with the practice in question, a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of a member bank should be regarded as a part of the "bank", as that 
word is used in sections 204.1(f) and 217.1(f). The BoardTs long-
standing position has been that, unless otherwise provided by law, 
it is permissible to treat a wholly-owned subsidiary of a bank as a 
Part of the bank itself in applying various provisions of Federal 
banking law that govern member State banks. (See, for example, 
F.R.L.S. #6852.) Otherwise, the bank could avoid legal limitations 
and requirements wherever the activities involved could be performed 
by such subsidiaries. 
There is no provision of law that conflicts with treating 
Morgan Guaranty*s Edge corporations as parts of that bank insofar as 
this particular practice is concerned, and the Board considers that 
that step is necessary to effect the purposes of sections 204.1(f) 
and 217.1(f) and the statutory provisions upon which they are based. 
The exception thereto relating to an instrument "that evidences 
an indebtedness arising from a transfer of assets that the bank is 
°bligated to repurchase" is not applicable. Any argument that notes 
issued by the subsidiary that are in the hands of the parent are "assets" 
of 
the parent that have been "issued" by the subsidiary fails, because 
it is based on the hypothesis of separate entities. Considering the 
Edge corporations as parts of the "bank" requires disregarding (for 
this purpose) "inter-company" items - the "asset" of the notes on the 
books of the bank and the "liability" of such notes on the books of 
the subsidiary. The notes in this situation would not be "issued" 
until sold or otherwise transferred to another person. 
The Board would appreciate your communicating to Morgan 
Guara.nty the views expressed in this letter and the Board's con-
clusion that the proceeds of any notes that bank sells in accordance 
with the practice referred to herein are "deposits" of the bank for 
the purposes of Regulations D and Q. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
