FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 8. 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

583 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 8, 1971. The available members met in the 
Board Room at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
1/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
%] 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
%1 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mrs. Hobbs of the Office of the Secretary 
The staff presented an economic and financial review of the 
kind customarily presented in advance of meetings of the Federal Open 
Market Committee. 
Copies of the statistical charts and tables prepared 
for today's review have been placed in the Board's files, along with 
copies of the individual briefings. 
Members of the staff who had been present for the economic 
review left the room at this point. 
Other members of the staff includ-
ing Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel, and Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation, entered the room. 
1/ Attended afternoon session only. 
2/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

581 
3/8/71 
-2-
In view of the lack of a quorum, it was decided to defer action 
on several items listed on today's agenda with the understanding the 
Board might meet this afternoon. 
Testimony of Chairman Burns. A draft had been distributed of 
a statement to be given by Chairman Burns before the Senate Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee on Wednesday, March 10. Members 
of the Board present expressed general agreement with the draft state-
ment, and comments were limited principally to technical points. 
Chair-
man Burns indicated that Governor Brimmer had seen a draft of the testi-
mony and account was taken of his suggestions. 
It was understood that the statement would be edited in light 
of the suggestions made today and would be presented in a final form 
satisfactory to the Chairman. 
(Note: A copy of the statement, as 
presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance . 
Discount rate and reserve requirements. The directors of five 
Federal Reserve Banks had acted to establish a discount rate of 4-1/2 
Per cent, subject to review and determination by the Board. On the 
other hand, there had been indications that the directors of at least 
two other Reserve Banks would be reluctant to reduce the rate at this 
time. 
There was a general discussion of the situation during which it 
was noted that the discount rate was presently more out of line with 

581 
3/8/71 
-2-
short-term market rates than at the time the discount rate was cut to 
4-3/4 per cent in February. Continuation of the practice followed in 
recent months of making small changes in the discount rate in line with 
market rate trends would therefore suggest a reduction to 4-1/2 per cent, 
and such a move had already been discounted in the market. In fact, a 
failure to act in the reasonably near future might arouse speculation 
that the Federal Reserve had for some reason abandoned its recent prac-
tice, at least temporarily. In the current circumstances, the staff 
did not believe that a discount rate reduction would have much actual 
impact, although such a move might tend to encourage, in some indirect 
fashion, a downward trend in long-term rates. On the international 
side, it appeared clear that a further discount rate reduction would 
not be welcomed by central bankers abroad, who would regard it as sym-
bolic of an easier monetary policy than they believed was warranted. 
There was also a general discussion of the question whether some 
kind of reduction in member bank reserve requirements in the relatively 
near future would or would not be advisable. The staff suggested several 
considerations that appeared relevant in this connection. Of these, 
Board members were inclined to feel that there would be some attractive-
ness in using the opportunity to move toward a structural change in 
reserve requirements, within the constraints imposed by existing law. 
It was conceded that a simple reduction in reserve requirements would 
be likely to provoke some criticism of the Board, in the Congress or 

586 
3/8/71 
-4-
elsewhere, but a view was expressed that such criticism would be less 
severe if a change in the requirements were tailored so as to benefit 
the smaller member banks particularly. 
There might be difficulty, it 
was pointed out, in developing a plan with structural implications, yet 
involving a relatively modest over-all release of reserves, that would 
not raise reserve requirements significantly for some significant group 
of banks. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the staff was requested to 
prepare two papers, one on the discount rate and the other on reserve 
v 
Li./. : 
requirements, examining the issues involved in more detail, with a view 
to further discussion next week when more members of the Board would be 
available. 
•• 
• T v j, v'>v i.ti^nc i 
.'A < • .
i
• 
• • •r 
After a review of legislative matters by Mr. Cardon, the meet-
ing recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 3:15 p.m. with the 
following attendance: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
1, Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

581 
3/8/71 
-2-
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Hobbs, of the Office of the Secretary 
Other appropirate members of the staff also 
attended. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 
liabilities of Provident Trust Company, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, by 
Western Pennsylvania National Bank, also of Pittsburgh, was approved 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
Competition presently existing between Western Pennsylvania 
National Bank, Pittsburgh, and Provident Trust Company, Pittsburgh, 
is minimal. While there is some potential for greater competition 
through de novo branching by Western Pennsylvania National Bank, the 
size of Provident Trust probably limits its competitiveness. Consum-
mation of the proposed transaction would not increase concentration 
appreciably, although the banking market is heavily concentrated. 
Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Governor Robertson expressed a preference for the conclusion 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland that the competitive effect 
of the proposed transaction would be adverse. 
Merrill Bankshares. Drafts of an order and statement reflect-
ing the Board's approval on February 22, 1971, of the application of 
Merrill Bankshares Company, Bangor, Maine, to acquire shares of Federal 
Trust Company, Waterville, Maine, had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1, along with 

581 
3/8/71 
-2-
a copy of the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson, Maisel, and 
Brimmer. 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company. In a memorandum dated March 5, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, New 
York, New York, for permission to issue capital notes. 
The application was unanimously approved. A copy of the letter 
to Morgan Guaranty is attached as Item No. 2. 
Although Governor Robertson did not vote against approval of 
this application, he expressed the view that it would be desirable for 
the Board to consider instituting a requirement that banks granted the 
right to issue capital notes could not retire them without the Board's 
prior consent. 
Involuntary separation payments. Mr. Johnson, in a memorandum 
dated February 24, 1971, presented recommendations of the Presidents' 
Conference relating to changes in the method of payment in cases of 
involuntary separation of Federal Reserve Bank employees. 
The recommendations, as follows, were unanimously approved: 
1. That Board letter S-2138 of June 4, 1970, be amended to 
exclude anyone eligible for a Retirement Plan pension 
whose age plus years of creditable service equals 80 at 
the effective date of involuntary separation. 
2. That the Retirement Plan be amended to incorporate 
therein the following provisions: 
Section 6.4. If a member's service is terminated 
involuntarily by an employing bank for reasons other 

than dishonesty, misconduct or insubordination and 
the sum of his age and years of creditable service 
on the date of such termination equal at least 80, 
he shall be entitled to receive, in addition to any 
pension or other benefits he may be entitled to 
receive pursuant to the other provisions of the Plan, 
an amount equal to one-twenty-fourth of his annual 
rate of salary on the date of such termination of 
service for each year and fraction of a year of 
creditable service not in excess of twenty-four-years, 
such amount not to exceed the amount of salary he 
would have received if he had remained in service 
until his normal retirement date, provided, however, 
that if such member is an officer of a Federal Reserve 
Bank, his right to receive such payment, and the 
amount thereof, shall be subject to the approval of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
The Committee shall direct payment of such amount 
to the member in one lump cash sum unless an optional 
method of payment becomes effective pursuant to 
Section 6.5. 
Section 6.5. A member entitled to receive a lump 
cash sum as provided in Section 6.4 may, if the 
Committee consents thereto, elect, in lieu of the 
lump cash sum method of payment the purchase with 
such separation sum and delivery to such member by 
the Board of a single premium immediate or deferred 
annuity on his life under a contract issued by such 
insurance company and containing such provisions as 
the Committee shall designate, which contract shall 
(i) provide for monthly payments to the member com-
mencing not later than his normal retirement date, 
and (ii) contain, if the Committee so determines, 
provisions which prevent the cash surrender thereof 
and which make the payments due thereunder nonassign-
able. 
No election under this Section 6.5 may be 
made which would result in payment to any person 
of less than $10 per month. 
The election of the 
optional method of payment under this Section 6.5 
must be made pursuant to such member's written 
direction to the Committee filed by the member with 
the Committee prior to the sixtieth day after the 
date of such termination of service and prior to the 
member's receipt of any payment under Section 6.4. 

590 
3/8/71 
Such an election may not be revoked without the 
consent of the Committee. 
It was noted that the amendments to the Retirement Plan required 
the approval of the Board of Trustees of the Retirement Plan and also 
the Internal Revenue Service. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. Governor Robertson said that Bank 
of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, was having difficulty in reducing 
its assets pursuant to the requirements of the cease and desist order 
issued by the Board effective August 31, 1970. The only feasible way 
would be for the bank to sell municipals, on which the bank would sus-
tain a loss because the market value of its portfolio was considerably 
below cost. In the circumstances, Governor Robertson recommended that 
the Board terminate the cease and desist order, which he felt could 
safely be done now that the bank was under new management and control, 
subject to the following understandings: 
First, that all or any portion of the bank's municipal bond 
portfolio would be sold promptly as soon as market conditions permitted 
such sale without loss to the bank; 
Second, that the bank's loan account would be reduced to the 
extent practicable, but in any event there would be no net increase in 
that account above its amount at the date of the termination of the 
cease and desist order except that such loans could be increased by a 
Prudent amount in proportion to any increase in deposits over and 
above the bank's total deposits as of the date of such termination 
Provided proper consideration was given to the bank's liquidity needs; 
Third, that no dividend would be paid on common or preferred 
stock of the bank without permission of the Board of Governors; and 

591 
3/8/71 
-9-
Fourth, that continued study and consideration would be given 
to augmenting the capital structure of the bank, in the light of 
developments, and that the Board would be kept constantly advised with 
respect thereto. 
Governor Robertson also said that the bank would be permitted 
to consolidate some of its branches and to set up five new branches. 
Subject to receipt of the foregoing assurances, the Board 
approved termination of the cease and desist order. 
(Note: The assur-
ances having been received, the cease and desist order was terminated 
on March 18, 1971.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

9 
^ 
Item No. 1 
5 9 2 
3/8/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
I n the Matter of the Application of 
MERRILL BANKSHARES COMPANY, 
Bangor, Maine, 
approval of acquisition of at least 
8 0 per cent of the voting shares of 
Federal Trust Company, Waterville, Maine. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Merrill Banlcshares Company, 
Ban 
n8or, Maine, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Pr*or approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of Federal Trust Company, Waterville, Maine. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Bank Commissioner 
the State of Maine, and requested his views and recommendation. 
Th 
G Commissioner responded that he had no obj ection to approval of 
t h e application. 

5 9 3 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 2, 1970 (35 Federal Register 18347), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
Qnd views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
f°r its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
Spired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
B°ard's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
aPproved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consum-
mated ( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
0rdcr, or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless.such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 8, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, and Sherrill. 
• 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
and Brimmer. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL] 

594 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MERRILL BANKSHARES COMPANY, BANGOR, MAINE 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FEDERAL TRUST COMPANY, VJATERVILLE, MAINE 
STATEMENT 
Merrill Banlcshares Company, Bangor, Maine ("Applicant"), a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, for prior 
aPproval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the voting 
shares of Federal Trust Company, Waterville, Maine ("Federal Trust"). 
Applicant had submitted an earlier application, which the 
B°ard approved on April 27, 1970~{ to acquire all the voting shares of 
p , 
oral Trust by merging that bank into a nonoperating State bank, 
°rSani2Gd by Applicant solely as a means of acquiring all the shares 
° f Federal Trust, Prior to effectuation of Applicant's proposal to 
accluire such shares, a minority shareholder of Federal Trust brought 
action in the Maine courts attacking the merger plan as illegal 
U n d e r the law of Maine; and, on August 14, 1970, the Supreme Judicial 
y 1970 Federal Reserve Bulletin 457, 

595 
- 2 -
Court of Maine, on appeal, sustained the attack. At the request of 
Applicant, the Board, by Order of September 16, 1970~{ vacated its 
Order of April 27, 1970. 
The application herein seeks approval of the acquisition of 
shares of Federal Trust directly by Applicant through an exchange 
°f shares of Applicant for shares of Federal Trust. The present pro-
posal preserves the right of a Federal Trust shareholder to refuse the 
^change offer and remain a shareholder of Federal Trust, 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Bank Commissioner of the State of 
Maine, and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
responded that he had no objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
tha 
a t the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
m°nopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
m 
n°poll2e or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States, Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
HUisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
SuK 
stantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
l,hich in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
2/ 
- 
1 9 7 0 Federal Reserve Bulletin 791. 

- 2 -
596 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
Probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board is 
Squired to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
3/ 
controls two banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $100 million. 
is the sixth largest banking organization in the State and the smallest 
°f the four registered bank holding companies. Upon acquisition of 
Federal Trust ($40 million deposits), Applicant's share of State-wide 
deposits would increase from 8,5 per cent to 11.9 per cent, and Applicant 
^ould thereby become the fourth largest banking organization in the State. 
Federal Trust serves principally the Waterville area. The 
shortest distance between an office of Federal Trust and a banking office 
i n Applicant's system is more than 15 miles, and the intervening area offers 
^ttle prospect for significant growth. The lead bank of Depositors Trust 
c°Npany is the State's largest bank (on the basis of deposits), has a 
branch in Uaterville and is one of Federal Trust's principal competitors. 
3T"aU banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding 
company acquisitions approved by the Board through December 31, 1970. 

First National Bank of Pittsfield, another principal competitor of 
Federal Trust, was recently merged into Maine National Bank, the 
State's second largest bank. 
Prior to the issuance of its Order of April 27, 1970, the 
Board carefully analyzed the competitive situation in the areas involved 
Qnd concluded that competitive considerations were consistent with 
approval of the Applicant's proposal to acquire control of Federal 
Trust. The Board has reviewed the data and analysis upon which it 
r^lied with respect to Applicant's earlier proposal and has studied 
the data presented to the Board in connection with the current proposal, 
including facts relating to developments that have occurred since 
April 27, 1970; and the Board concludes that there is only minimal 
competition between Federal Trust and Applicant's subsidiaries, little 
likelihood of any significant future competition developing between 
fchem, and there appears to be no reason for the Board to depart from 
fche conclusion it reached in April 1970, regarding competitive con-
siderations in the areas involved. 
For the reasons stated herein and the reasons set forth 
the Statement accompanying the Order of April 27, 1970, relating to 
Applicant's original proposal for the acquisition of shares of Federal 
Trust, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
^ould not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination, 
conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
relevant area, and would not substantially lessen competition, tend to 
create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 

5S 
- 5 -
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition and management of Applicant, its subsidiary-
banks, and of Federal Trust are regarded as satisfactory, and their 
prospects appear favorable. Thus, considerations relating to the 
inking factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - 
It 
appears that the banking needs of residents of the areas served by 
Applicant's present subsidiaries and by Federal Trust are being 
adequately met at present. However, all of the areas affected could 
benefit from the greater facility with which the banks involved should 
be able, through loan participations, to meet larger credit needs in 
the communities they serve. Applicant proposes to provide specialists 
computer facilities and to extend the branch system of Federal 
Trust, all of which should benefit the communities involved. Therefore, 
community convenience and needs considerations lend weight to approval 
o f the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
s°ction 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
Ilarch8, 1971.. 
»i 

599 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, MAISEL, AND BRIMMER 
We dissent from the Board's action because, in our view, 
consummation of Applicant's proposal will have significant adverse 
competitive effects which are not outweighed by other considerations. 
Our reasons for finding significant adverse competitive 
effects are the same as those set forth in our dissenting Statement 
accompanying the Board's Order of April 27, 1970, approving the 
aPplication of Merrill Bankshares Company to acquire all the voting 
shares of the successor by merger to Federal Trust Company. Ue have 
found no significant change in the competitive situation and no 
reasons to change our earlier conclusion. 
As a matter of fact, considerations relating to the convenience 
^nd needs of the Waterville community now provide less support for 
aPproval of the application than such considerations did at the time 
o f the Board's April 27 Order. The lead bank in the State's largest 
inking organization operates a branch in Waterville, only 21 miles 
r° m its main office. In addition, one of the competitors of Federal 
^ r u s t was recently merged into the second largest bank in the State, 
A<? 
a result, Waterville area residents have access to the full range 
banking services available at the offices of Maine's two largest 
commercial banks. 

It is relevant to the consideration of Applicant's present 
Proposal to note that the Board warned just two months ago, in an Order 
December 14, 1970 (1971 Federal Reserve Bulletin 36), relating to 
a n application involving other parties, that caution must be exercised 
v'ith respect to proposals that might increase deposit concentration in 
Maine i n view of the apparent trend toward concentration of commercial 
banking in that State. 
In the light of all the circumstances of this case, we 
believe that the statutory criteria require that the application be 
denied. 
March o, 1971. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/8/71 
6 C i 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BCARD 
March 8, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
of New York 
New York, New York 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
°f $100,000,000 in subordinated notes by Morgan Guaranty Trust 
Company of New York, New York, New York, as proposed in your 
let ters of January 13, 1971, and February 23, 1971, with 
attachments to the Board of Governors. 
It is understood that 
funds will not be transferred to the trustee (or any paying 
agent) or bank assets segregated for the purpose of obtaining 
the satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture substantially 
in advance of the maturity date. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
