MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 30, 1970 

2208 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 30, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 11:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 2/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
.1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
.2/ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

7/30/70 
-2-
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by the available members 
of the Board at the meeting on July 27, 1970, as recorded in the minutes 
of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous vote. 
Marine Midland Grace Trust Company. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated July 22, 1970, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an application 
of Marine Midland Grace Trust Company of New York, New York, New York, 
to merge The Community Bank, Lynbrook, New York. 
Question was raised whether publication of notice in a trade 
paper and in a local community newspaper satisfied the statutory require-
ment that notice of a proposed merger be published in a newspaper of 
general circulation in the community or communities where the main offices 
of the banks involved were located. It was agreed that the procedure 
should be accepted in this instance, but that the question of defining 
the term "general circulation" should be referred to the Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation for consideration. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
Society Corporation. A memorandum from the Division of Supervi-
sion and Regulation dated July 20, 1970, and other pertinent papers, in-
cluding a proposed order, had been distributed in connection with an 
application of Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire shares of 
The Erie County Bank, Vermilion, Ohio. 

2210 
7/30/70 
-3-
The application was approved unanimously and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Barnett Banks of Florida. Memoranda from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated July 17 and 20, 1970, respectively, and 
other pertinent papers, including proposed orders, had been distributed 
in connection with applications of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Barnett First National Bank 
in Seminole County, Altamonte Springs, and Barnett Bank of Orlando, 
proposed new banks. 
The applications were approved unanimously and the issuance of 
the orders was authorized. Copies are attached as Items 2 and 3, 
respectively. 
Florida National Banks. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated July 21, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Florida 
National Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of 30 banks presently con-
trolled by Trustees of the Estate of Alfred I. duPont, a registered 
bank holding company. 
The discussion dealt mainly with the extent to which the Trust 
would in fact relinquish control of its banking interests. It was noted 
that the present proposal for the formation of a bank holding company 
represented the first step toward compliance with the divestiture require-
ment of the Bank Holding Company Act, and that as a second step the Trust 

J 2 S J 1 1 
7/30/70 
-4-
would endeavor to reduce its bank holdings to less than 25 per cent 
through sale of shares of the holding company to the public. The third 
step would be for the officers, trustees, and beneficiaries of the Trust 
to divorce themselves from any relationship with the proposed holding 
company. It was agreed that it should be made clear that the Board 
reserved the right to make a final determination that the spirit as well 
as the letter of the law had been met. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
First Financial Corporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated July 23, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of First 
Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of Bank of 
Clearwater, Clearwater, Florida. The Atlanta Reserve Bank and the Board's 
staff recommended denial. 
The application was denied by unanimous vote, with the under-
standing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
A memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
July 23, 1970, and other pertinent papers had also been distributed in 
connection with an application of First Financial Corporation to acquire 
shares of Inter City National Bank of Bradenton, Bradenton, Florida. 
The recommendations were favorable. 

»fl O 
7/30/70 
-5-
Attention was called to the somewhat less than satisfactory 
overall financial condition of the holding company system as well as to 
its lack of depth in qualified management. These factors, coupled with 
management weaknesses at the Bradenton bank, gave rise to reservations 
on the part of the Board as to the wisdom of allowing further expansion 
of the holding company at this time. 
There was agreement with a suggestion that First Financial 
Corporation be afforded an opportunity to withdraw the application, with 
the understanding that consideration would be given to its resubmission 
upon presentation of evidence that affirmative action to correct existing 
weaknesses had been instituted. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on July 23 and by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on July 27, 1970, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking matter. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent for that corporation to continue to hold the shares of 
Colombiana de Financiamientos, S.A., Bogota, Colombia, after the latter 
acquires shares of National Gold Card de Colombia Ltda. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 4. 

2213 
7/30/70 
-6-
Questions raised by Congresswoman Dwyer. Congresswoman Dwyer 
of New Jersey had addressed letters to the members of the Board 
raising a number of questions with regard to the future course of 
monetary policy, and a draft of joint reply had been distributed. 
After discussion, agreement was reached on several minor changes 
and unanimous approval was given to a reply in the form attached as 
Item No. 5. 
Governor Daane entered the meeting at this point. The preced-
ing actions were reviewed, and it was understood that the record would 
show that he joined in the vote on all of them. 
Joint Economic Committee testimony. On July 23, 1970, when 
Chairman Burns appeared before the Joint Economic Committee, Congress-
man Reuss had inquired whether he took exception to certain guidelines 
for growth of the money supply as set forth in the 1968 Annual Report 
of the Joint Economic Committee. Chairman Burns had eventually been 
asked to submit a written statement of any reservations, and a draft 
of reply had now been distributed. 
After several changes had been suggested for purposes of clari-
fication and emphasis, it was understood that the statement would be 
edited in the light of those suggestions and transmitted in a final 
form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. A copy of the statement, as 
transmitted, has been placed in the Board's files. 

2214 
7/30/70 
-7-
Study of State taxation of banks. Public Law 91-156 required 
the Board to make a study to determine the probable impact on the banking 
system and other economic effects if States were authorized to impose 
taxes generally on the activities of national banks, and to report the 
results of the study to the Congress not later than December 31, 1970. 
In a memorandum dated July 28, 1970, Mr. Partee recommended 
that an arrangement be entered into with the Library of Congress whereby 
the services of Dr. Israel M. Labovitz of the Legislative Reference 
Service would be made available to direct the study on a reimbursable 
basis for the period August 10, 1970, through March 31, 1971, with pro-
vision for earlier termination if the task were completed before that 
date. Mr. Partee also requested authorization of an overexpenditure 
of approximately $15,000 in the pertinent account of the 1970 budget of 
the Division of Research and Statistics to cover Dr. Labovitz's salary 
until the end of the year. It was contemplated that an advisory panel 
of qualified experts also would be appointed, although most of the 
analytical and investigatory work associated with the study would be 
undertaken by the System's staff. A $5,000 outlay for retention of 
outside assistance, approved on April 29, 1970, would be applied toward 
meeting expenses of the advisory panel. 
During discussion, concern was expressed about the effect on 
Congressional relations if the study was not completed by the date set 

<t'? a rr 
7/30/70 
-8-
by the Congress. Governor Mitchell and members of the staff explained 
reasons for the later target date, noting among other things that the 
study would cover highly technical issues with significant political 
overtones. Mr. Cardon then commented on how the study would be useful 
to the Congress and expressed the view that its availability by the 
end of March would probably be acceptable. The Board requested that 
Mr. Cardon clear the extension of time with appropriate Congressional 
parties. 
The recommendation with respect to securing the services of 
Dr. Labovitz was approved unanimously, and the related overexpenditure 
of approximately $15,000 in the pertinent account of the 1970 budget 
was also approved. A copy of the letter sent to the Library of Congress 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. Under the date of July 23, 1970, 
the following had been distributed at the request of Governor Robertson: 
(1) memorandum dated July 22, 1970, summarizing a meeting on 
the same date between representatives of the bank supervisory 
agencies and officials of Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, 
Michigan; 
(2) letter dated July 22, 1970, to Bank of the Commonwealth 
(a) setting forth a program aimed at improving the bank's 
condition, (b) indicating that the Board proposed to commence 
administrative proceedings under the Financial Institutions 
Supervisory Act of 1966, and (c) as an alternative, making 
available the consent cease and desist procedure. 

1 6 
7/30/70 
-9-
(3) draft notice of charges that would support issuance 
of a consent cease and desist order; and 
(4) draft of consent cease and desist order. 
Governor Robertson noted that Board approval of the documents 
that had been drafted would facilitate prompt action if and when the 
bank indicated its willingness to consent. 
Governor Robertson then reviewed recent developments with 
respect to Bank of the Commonwealth. Among the conditions to be met 
by the bank was the divorcement of four officers, who also served as 
directors, from their connections with the bank. The resignations were 
in hand, to become effective as of the date on which the bank's directors 
agreed to the consent order, which was to be within two weeks. 
One of the provisions in the cease and desist order would have 
precluded the payment of dividends on either common or preferred stock 
until such time as the Board determined that the bank was in such 
condition that dividends should again be paid. Because prohibition of 
payment of the preferred stock dividends would impede efforts to sell 
the bank, Governor Robertson now recommended that the payment of dividends 
on preferred stock be allowed. 
It was understood that a letter would be forthcoming that would 
confirm the bank's acceptance of the consent order, as modified with 
respect to payment of dividends on preferred stock, and that the 
bank would at the same time announce the resignations of the four officers, 
both in their capacities as officers and as directors. 

2 Z 1 7 
7/30/70 
-10-
Governors Mitchell and Daane indicated that they had not had 
an opportunity to examine the documentation thoroughly. It was under-
stood that after doing so, they would pursue any questions with Governor 
Robertson. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that Governor Robertson had 
handled the situation in excellent fashion, working toward the goal 
of saving the bank while at the same time bringing about an improvement 
in the quality of management. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the notice of charges and 
consent cease and desist order, with the understanding that any changes 
agreed upon by Governor Robertson would be incorporated. It was also 
understood that every effort would be made to protect the confidentiality 
of the matter. 
Reserve requirements. In a memorandum dated July 28, 1970, the 
Division of Research and Statistics suggested (1) that consideration be 
given to a reduction in reserve requirements on time and demand deposits 
as a means of providing an increase in the liquidity of commercial banks, 
and (2) that the effect of such an announcement be moderated through 
imposition of reserve requirements on bank -related commercial paper, 
with the change taking place at the end of the current Treasury financing 
period, which would place the effective date in the latter part of August 
or in September. 

2 2 1 8 
7/30/70 
-11-
Chairman Burns expressed the view that the Board should move 
before too long on reserve requirements. The package he favored would 
include a reduction in reserve requirements on time deposits over $5 
million from 6 to 4-1/2 per cent and imposition of a 4-1/2 per cent 
reserve requirement on bank-related commercial paper. Such a move would 
be a moderate step which, if necessary, could be offset partially through 
open market operations. Reserve requirements had not been reduced since 
the early 1960's, and this appeared to be one factor contributing to 
the slow erosion of membership in the Federal Reserve System. The 
package would also represent a slight move toward liberalization and 
help to clean up a regulatory problem through closing the escape hatch 
provided by bank-related commercial paper. As to timing, the Board should 
remain calm in the face of rumors and not be deflected from the course 
that it decided was the proper one. He indicated that he would bring 
his proposal back for further discussion unless conditions changed within 
the near future. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting to keep another 
appointment. 
Bank of Arlington. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to The Bank of Arlington, Arlington, Virginia, approving its application 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 7. 

2219 
7/30/70 
-12-
Quarterly series on State personal income. In a memorandum 
dated July 29, 1970, the Division of Research and Statistics recommended 
approval of a request from the Office of Business Economics, Department 
of Commerce, for continued System financial support (initiated two years 
ago) for the quarterly estimates of State personal income for another 
two years at the rate of $50,000 a year. This request had received the 
unanimous support of the System Research Advisory Committee and had been 
approved, on behalf of the Conference of Presidents, by the Committee on 
Research and Statistics. It was contemplated that the Board's staff 
would communicate to the Office of Business Economics and to the Office 
of Management and Budget the System's expectation that permanent fund-
ing would be arranged within the Federal budget at the earliest feasible 
time. 
The Division's recommendation was approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2220 
Item No. 1 
7/30/70 
L 
i 
, 
. 
UNITED STATES (jj? AFRICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D* C; 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SOCIETY CORPORATION, 
Cleveland, Ohio, 
for approval of acquisition of 100 
per cent (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the voting shares of The 
Erie County Bank, Vermilion, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF 
BANK STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Society Corporation, Cleveland, 
Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the voting shares of The Erie County Bank, 
^rniilion, Ohio ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tice of receipt of the application to the Ohio Superintendent of Banks 
an(l requested his views and recommendation. The Superintendent recommended 
aPproval of the application. 

-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 29, 1970 (35 Federal Register 8460), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest bank holding company and the 
fifth largest banking organization in Ohio, controls six banks with 
a8gregate deposits of $959 million, representing slightly less than 
5 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking 
^ata are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect holding company actions 
aPproved by the Board to date). Bank ($26 million deposits) is head-
bartered in Vermilion, 40 miles west of Cleveland, and operates four 
°ffices in two markets: in the Lorain market (Lorain County and the 
city of Vermilion), Bank, with two offices, is the smallest of eight 
banks, controlling slightly more than 3 per cent of the commercial 
bank deposits in that market; in the Erie market (Erie County other 

9 ' ) 9 9 
-3-
than the City of Vermilion), Bank, with two offices, is the fifth 
largest of six banks, controlling 8 per cent of the commercial bank 
deposits in that market. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary has a branch office located 
24 miles west of Bank, with the City of Sandusky intervening, and 
there appears to be no significant existing competition between Bank 
and any of Applicant's subsidiaries. Nor does it appear likely that 
such competition would develop because of the distances between 
Applicant's 
present subsidiaries and Bank, the presence of competitive 
alternatives in the intervening areas, and Ohio law which restricts 
branching to the home office County of each bank. Although Bank 
could branch into the eastern portion of Lorain County (a suburb 
Cleveland which is served by Applicant's principal subsidiary 
bank), such action appears unlikely because of the size of Bank and 
fcne presence in that area of numerous offices of larger institutions. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consum-
mation of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on competition 
in any relevant area. Considerations relating to financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects are regarded as consistent with approval 
a s they relate to Applicant and its subsidiaries, and, as they relate 
t o Bank, lend weight in support of such action, since Applicant plans 
t o inject additional capital and to continue to provide management 
assistance« As far as the convenience and needs of the communities 
concerned, on consummation of the acquisition, Applicant plans to offer 

-4-
• 
'V '/ , • 
v
 
V ' 
fiduciary, international, and investment advisory services not 
presently available from Erie County banks. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consum-
mated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 30,' 1970 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

222 4 
Item No. 2 
7/30/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., 
1 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
Barnett First National Bank in Seminole 
' 
County, Altamonte Springs, Florida, a 
' 
proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding com-
pany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Barnett First National Bank 
in Seminole County, Altamonte Springs, Florida ("Altamonte Bank"), 
a proposed new bank. 

2225 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 16, 1970 (35 Federal Register 9877), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest bank holding company in Florida, 
controls 21 banks with aggregate deposits of $644 million repre-
senting approximately 5.3 per cent of total bank deposits in the State. 
(AH banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect 
bank holding company acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) 

-3-
Since Altamonte Bank is a proposed new bank, concentration of banking 
resources in the State would not be immediately affected by consum-
mation of the proposal. 
Altamonte Bank, located in south Seminole County about nine 
miles north of downtown Orlando (Orange County), would serve a rapidly 
growing suburban area. Applicant does not now have a subsidiary in 
Seminole County. Applicant's sole subsidiary in Orange County, the 
First National Bank at Winter Park, is the third largest bank in the 
county with approximately 10 per cent of the deposits there; and is 
located seven miles southeast of Altamonte Bank's location. 
However, 
Applicant's Orange County subsidiary derives no significant part of 
its business from the service area of the proposed new bank; and is 
an inconvenient banking source for the residents of Altamonte Springs. 
All 
other banks in Applicant's system are over 25 miles from Altamonte 
Bank's location and none competes for business in the south Seminole 
County area. Seminole County has five banks, of which two are in 
the southern portion of the county. Each of the two banks nearest 
to Altamonte Bank has over $16 million deposits and has experienced 
satisfactory growth. 
It appears that they would be the principal 
competitors of Altamonte Bank. Some additional competition appears 
likely 
from five other banks in north Orange County. Applicant s 
de novo entry into south Seminole County is expected to stimulate 
competition there, without having any adverse effects on any competing 
banks, or eliminating present competition, or foreclosing potential 
competition. 

2227 
-4-
Based upon the foregoing the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on com-
petition in any relevant area, and is likely to have a pro-competitive 
effect in south Seminole County. The banking factors, as applied to 
the facts of record, are consistent with approval of the application. 
At present there is no bank in the service area, delineated for Altarnonte 
Bank,and the needs of that area are being served by banks in nearby 
communities. A new full service bank in the area to be served by 
Altarnonte Bank will give the public a more convenient alternative. 
This consideration weighs in support of approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in 
the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order; 
and that the Barnett First National Bank in Seminole County shall be 
opened for business not later than six months after the date of this 

Order; except that a time period herein prescribed may be extended, 
for good cause, by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 30, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2 2 2 9 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Item No. 3 
7/30/70 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Barnett Bank of Orlando, Orlando, 
Florida, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Barnett Banks of 
Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
8 0 per cent or more of the voting shares of Barnett Bank of Orlando ("Bank"), 
°rlando, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 

2230 
-24-
Banking for the State of Florida and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 3, 1970 (35 Federal Register 8616), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the third largest banking organization in Florida, 
controlling 21 subsidiary banks which hold 5.3 per cent of total bank 
deposits in the State of Florida ($644 million in deposits). (All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) 
Since Bank is a proposed new bank, consummation of the proposal would 
n°t increase concentration in any market. 
Bank would be located in the eastern fringe of Orlando, the 
Principal city in Orange County. Applicant's only present subsidiary 

2231 
+ 3»r 
in Orange County is located at Winter Park, five miles north of the 
proposed bank, and has deposits of $68 million representing 10 per cent 
of deposits in the Countyf 
Because of tjie separation of the markets 
and the presence of several intervening banking alternatives, 
Applicant's Winter Park subsidiary does not compete to any signifi-
cant extent in the area to be serviced by the proposed new bank, 
Banking in Orange County is dominated by one banking organization 
controlling 42 per cent of County deposits. Applicant's expansion 
in the Orlando area would stipulate additional competition and 
lead to deconcentration in the area, Consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would neither eliminate existing competition, foreclose 
potential competition, nor have adverse effects on the viability 
or competitive effectiveness of any competing bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area, and would have a 
Procompetitive effect in Orange County, Considerations relating 
t o the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Bank and Applicant are consistent with approval of the appli-
cation Considerations relating tP the convenience and needs 
the community to be served by Bank lend some additional 
Weight in support of approval in that an additional source of 

' 
i1 
, 
banking services will be added to the community. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED* for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application bfe and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thritieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order, and provided further that (c) Barnett Bank of Orlando 
shall be open for business not later than six months after the date 
of this Order, The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 30, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

BOARD DF 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2055! 
Item No. 7 
7/30/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
July 30, 1970. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 17, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to con-
tinue to hold all of the shares of Colombiana de Financiamientos, 
S.A. ("Coifin"), Bogota, Colombia, after Colfin acquires up to 75 per 
cent of the shares of National Gold Card de Colombia Lcda. ("NGC"), 
Bogota, Colombia, at a cost of approximately $53,000, provided such 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of NGC by FNCOIC is granted subject to the follow-
ing conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of NGC if NGC at any time fails to re-
strict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, pur-
chase and hold stock, or if NGC establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Colombia or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC ' 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of NGC as it may require from time to 
time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by NGC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if NGC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

2234 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2 
(4) That Colfin shall not carry on its books the shares 
of NGC at a net amount in excess of the book capital 
accounts of NGC, after giving effect to the elimina-
tion of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by NGC in Colombia 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of NGC. 
It is understood that the proposed acquisition will re-
quire no additional investment in Colfin by FNCOIC. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

*>•» 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F ' T H E . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 5 
7/30/70 
O F F I C E OF THE 
C H A I R M A N 
July 31, 1970. 
The Honorable Florence P. Dwyer, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mrs. Dwyer: 
I am writing in response to your letter of July 17 in which 
you asked some searching questions about the future course of monetary 
policy. As I am sure you realize, any discussion of what policy the 
Federal Reserve may follow in the future is subject to a number of 
constraints. However, let me try to answer your questions within 
these restrictions, on behalf of other Board members as well as 
myself. 
1. "What will be the Federal Reserve's policies for money 
growth and for interest rates if; 
a. unemployment is at 5 per cent in September 
b. unemployment is at 6 per cent in September 
c. unemployment is above 6 per cent in September?" 
The Federal Reserve is endeavoring to pursue policies that 
will facilitate a course of long-run, noninflationary growth. It 
would be virtually impossible to achieve this by simply focusing on 
the unemployment rate in any one month. While the level of unemploy-
ment is clearly an important economic variable, changes in this 
variable along with other indicators of present and prospective 
economic developments-- such as industrial production, prices, plant 
and equipment spending, Federal budget policy, etc.--must be taken 
into account in order to arrive at an appropriate monetary policy 
stao.ce. 
An unemployment rate of 6 per cent or larger by the early 
fall of this year, however, would imply a substantial further weakening 
in the economy and a need to move toward more stimulative policies. 

- 2 -
2. "Will unemployment be the overriding consideration of 
the Fed if it is at 5 per cent or higher next September? If 
not, how vill it be influenced by inflation if the consumer 
price index is rising at an annual rate of: 
a0 
more than 6 per cent 
b. about 5 per cent 
c. less than 4 per cent?" 
As noted above, we view the level of unemployment as a 
highly important, but not the sole variable in determining the 
course of monetary policy. I believe that the extent of unemploy-
ment can be minimized during the transition period presently under-
way. While progress toward price stability has taken longer than 
most had believed, the evidence nevertheless does point toward a 
decelerating rate of price increase in the months ahead. 
Consumer prices in June rose at an annual rate of about 
5 per cent. By September, the rate of increase should have slowed. 
But I cannot state in advance what the proper course of monetary 
policy would be if that event did not materialize without knowing 
more about the reasons why no further abatement of inflation in 
consumer prices was realized. For example, was it a temporary runup 
in (say) food prices, or not? Did it reflect an unusual increase 
in auto prices, perhaps? Or was it widespread? 
3. "Recent, somewhat contradictory statements by members 
of the Federal Reserve Board and minority votes on Federal 
Reserve policy decisions lead to the question: Can the Federal 
Reserve be depended upon to meet conditions according to a 
predetermined plan?" 
Contingency planning is a continuous activity of the Federal 
Reserve. However, given the limits of our knowledge of the future, we 
must remain flexible and adjust to change. 
Occasional variations in views among Board members, or 
among other Federal Reserve officials, arc an indication of 
independence of thought, which I regard as a source of strength. 

3 
4. "Whenever in the postwar period unemployment has fallen 
below 4-1/2 per cent, inflation has occurred . . . Assuming that 
n 
we succeed in ending or limiting inflation, is there any reason 
to believe from either United States experience or that of other 
nations that once we return to 4-1/2 per cent or less unemploy-
ment, we will not have acceleration in the rate of price increases? 
Past experience in achieving full employment and relatively 
stable prices has not been too encouraging, in either this country or 
other developed nations. Nevertheless, there is reason to hope that 
our performance can be improved. The relationship of prices to unemploy 
ment is not immutable. Policies designed to improve labor productivity 
and mobility, increase market competition, and generally reduce market 
imperfections would all help to limit upward price and cost pressures 
when the economy is at full employment,. Monetary and fiscal policies 
that avoid overstimulation are, of course, a prerequisite. 
As I recently observed in testimony before the Joint Economic 
Committee, I believe that we can look forward to an early and orderly 
recovery in output and employment, with further lessening of inflationar 
pressures. But the Federal Reserve recognizes that future events cannot 
be predicted with certainty and we stand ready to revise our judgments 
and policies in the light of unfolding experience. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
7/30/70 
• FTHE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
August 3, 1970 
Mr. Lester S. Jaysons 
Director, Legislative Reference 
Service, 
Library of Congress, 
Washington, D.C. 20540 
Dear Mr. Jayson: 
This is to request official confirmation of the detail 
of Mr. Israel M. Labovitz to the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System as arranged between you and Mr. Levon Garabedian of 
the Board1s staff. 
We ask that Mr. Labovitz be made available to the Federal 
Reserve Board on a reimbursable basis for the period August 10, 1970 
through February 26, 1971. We understand that we may ask for an 
extension of this detail through March 31, 1971, if Mr. Labovitz's 
work here is not completed by the end of February. 
The Federal Reserve Board would reimburse the Library 
of Congress for Mr. Labovitz*s salary and related fringe benefits 
(estimated to be an additional 8 1/2 percent of his basic salary) 
on a quarterly basis. Vouchers submitted for reimbursement of 
these services should be directed to Mr. John Kalcalec, Controller. 
Xn addition, the Board will reimburse Mr. Labovitz for 
any official travel expenses incurred in connection with this detail. 
Travel is reimbursed in accordance with the Board1s travel regulations. 
Your cooperation in making it possible for Mr. Labovitz to 
assist us is greatly appreciated. 
Sincerely 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N • R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
7/30/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL. CDRRE5PQ 
TO THE BOARD 
July 30, 1972 
Board of Directors, 
The Bank of Arlington, 
Arlington, Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of The Bank of Arlington, Arlington, 
Virginia, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appro-
priate State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $500,000, and other capital funds of 
not less than $500,000. 

The Bank of Arlington 
-2-
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Preserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, to-
gether with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond. Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment 
for an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept 
the deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applie 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and that 
the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued 
to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yotirs, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 
