609 
U r i 
Minutes for 
M aY 2 0 > 1 9 6 9 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. —' 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
k* 
a 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
' 'i'
f j 
y 
Meeting with the Federal Advisory Council 

1676 
3
/
' 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
hi • 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C., at 10:30 a.m. 
on Tuesday, May 20, 1969. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
! ! 1-
Messrs. Wheeler, Moore, Brown, Mayer, 
Wilkinson, Craft, Graham, Fox, Nason, 
Conn, Gray, and Larkin, Members of the 
Federal Advisory Council from the First, 
Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, 
Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, 
and Twelfth Federal Reserve Districts, 
respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general 
economic outlook for the rest of 1969? 
Despite the fact that the pace of business continues 
strong, the Council expects economic activity to moderate 
through the rest of 1969 in response to the fiscal and 
monetary restraints now in effect. The slowdown in the 
rate of growth of real output (GNP adjusted for prices) has 
been apparent for several quarters. This development 
together with high interest rates, tight credit, smaller 
increases in Federal spending and the probable growing pres-
sure on profit margins, is likely to retard the rising level 
of capital spending. 

1677 
5/20/69 
-2-
Chairman Martin asked whether the Council members believed 
that high interest rates contributed to inflation or were a result 
°f the forces making for inflationary pressures. 
Mr. Moore commented that since interest rates affected the 
costs of all products, high rates obviously contributed to inflation. 
However, action to force rates down would encourage credit expansion 
and would thus be even more inflationary. Mr. Larkin expressed 
similar views. Mr. Nason said the element of inflation in high 
interest rates hopefully was small in relation to that which would 
he induced by forcing rates down. 
Mr. Moore remarked that market interest rates were high 
currently because of expectations of further inflation. If one 
Subtracted the component due to those expectations—which might 
anvount to 5 or 6 percentage points--the resulting "real" rates 
w°uld be found to be quite low by historical standards. If 
inflation were stopped market rates would come down. 
President Mayer commented that experience under State 
usury laws demonstrated that efforts to keep interest rates down by 
legislation had the effect of simply shutting off the flow of money. 
T c 
interest rate limits were imposed in financial markets, lenders 
w°uid be unwilling to lend because the return after allowing for 
inflation would not be worth the risk. 

t 
1673 
5/20/69 
-3-
Mr. Moore remarked that ceiling rates on securities might 
make it necessary to legislate compulsory bond purchases by banks--
a s had been done in Brazil — in order to enable the Government to 
sell its debt. 
Mr. Conn observed that interest rates typically rose in 
periods of monetary and credit restraint. 
Chairman Martin commented that in some respects it was 
surprising that interest rates had not risen even more in the past 
two years, particularly in periods when the Treasury was borrowing 
the market. The effect of inflation on interest rates was widely 
misunderstood, and judging from the number of inquiries he was 
getting from Congressmen and others, the problem of explanation was 
serious. The question was of great interest to the Congressional 
committees before which he was frequently called to testify. It 
W a s n o t sufficient simply to assert that inflation would have been 
worse if interest rates had been kept down, or that if ceilings were 
imposed on rates consideration might have to be given to some form 
forced savings. The Council members could perform a useful 
service if they and the staffs at their banks would think about that 
Problem and work on ways to make the matter understandable to the 
mar> in the street. 

5/20/69 
-4-
Mr. Moore remarked that charts developed at his bank 
suggested that interest rates typically started to move down 90 
to 120 days after the onset of a restrictive credit policy. While 
the decline evidently was being delayed in the current period of 
restraint, his staff held firmly to the belief that a downtrend 
was to be expected. He inquired whether Chairman Martin also 
expected a downtrend in rates. 
Chairman Martin said he could not say at this juncture; 
the momentum of the economy was very strong. 
Governor Robertson noted that the Council's written reply 
to the question on the economic outlook referred to the probability 
o f growing pressure on profit margins. He asked whether the members 
expected such pressure to be strong. President Mayer responded 
that that would be his personal expectation. Thus far businesses 
had been able to maintain their profit margins by raising prices, 
hut he did not think they would be able to continue doing so in the 
future, if that judgment was correct, businessmen were likely to 
become disillusioned and to harden their attitudes. Inflation 
undoubtedly was popular with many businessmen because it washed out 
some of their mistakes. 
,, , 
.. . 
Governor Robertson asked whether there was much pressure on 
v, r.,. , • . 
P r o fit margins at the present time. President Mayer replied that 

1680 
5/20/69 
-5-
there was a great deal, especially in basic industries such as 
aluminum and steel and in high labor-content industries. 
Mr. Moore then commented on the problem encountered by a 
particular steel company that had to meet an increase in wages this 
year almost as large as the company's total earnings, and that would 
be faced with a similar increase next year. Obviously the company 
had to pass on some part of its higher costs, but it was encountering 
buyer resistence to price increases. Some improvements in operating 
efficiency were expected, but not enough to make up the difference. 
B. Have Council members received any recent 
indications of significant changes in 
business capital spending or inventory 
plans? To what extent are business 
decisions in these areas being affected 
by (1) current and prospective monetary 
conditions? 
(2) the proposed repeal of 
the 7 per cent investment tax credit? 
Except for a few isolated instances, the Council 
members have not received any recent indications of 
significant changes in business capital spending or 
inventory plans because of current and prospective mon-
etary conditions, or because of the proposed repeal of 
the 7 per cent investment tax credit. Moreover, the 
continued pressure of rising operating labor and total 
construction costs tends to offset the impact of the 
repeal of the investment tax credit. 
* 'X 
• 
. 
President Mayer mentioned instances in which manufacturers 
had received a tremendous influx of orders during the week-end before 
the Administration proposed repeal of the investment tax credit. In 
illustration of the pressure being felt from rising labor costs, he 

1681. 
i 
5/20/69 
> 
-6-
and Mr. Moore cited examples of the increasing use in production 
plants of computerized operations involving a minimum of operating 
labor. The larger companies were in a position to avail themselves 
of such escapes, but small companies unable to automate their 
operations would suffer and perhaps some would not survive. 
Governor Brimmer said he gathered from President Mayer's 
comment about the influx of orders that the prospect of repeal of 
the investment tax credit had accelerated capital spending in the 
short run. He asked whether a sharp drop in capital spending might 
be expected once that batch of orders had passed through the pipeline. 
Mr. Graham remarked that the effect on capital spending 
probably would be greater if the investment tax credit were suspended 
rather than repealed. 
Mr. Moore commented that he thought the tax investment credit 
should be repealed, because such devices were not a good way to 
control the economy. For one thing, the on-again-off-again aspect 
created too much uncertainty. Repeal, however, should not be 
expected to produce miracles in the way of combatting inflation. A 
far more effective means was to restrain increases in demand and 
wage rates. 
i 
President Mayer agreed that the investment tax credit was a 
P°or instrument for economic control purposes, partly because of 
t^e long lags in the impact on spending of its removal or restoration. 

5/20/69 
-7-
Such changes simply muddied the waters. He was not addressing 
himself to the question of whether or not the tax credit was 
justified on other grounds, but merely noting that it was not an 
effective stabilization device. 
Governor Brimmer asked whether an increase in demands for 
long-term loans might be expected soon as a result of the recent 
flood of new orders for capital goods. Responses indicated that 
such an increase in loan demand would not be expected until pay-
ments were made for the new equipment, which in most cases probably 
would not be until 1970. 
C. In the Council's judgment, has there 
been any modification recently in 
business community attitudes with 
respect to the prospects for price 
and cost developments? 
In the Council's judgment there has not been any 
modification recently in business community attitudes 
toward the persistent upward pressures on costs and prices. 
There is a continuing skepticism in the business community 
that the objective of price stability will be accorded 
priority if unemployment should increase significantly. 
Frequent statements by public officials designed to lessen 
the fear of recession and unemployment re-enforce the doubt 
that the problem of inflation will continue to be met with 
determination. 
President Mayer commented that one commonly heard statements 
t o the effect that when monetary and fiscal restraint really began 
to bite. 
and minority groups began to be hurt by it, the authorities 
would retreat. Many people apparently were skeptical about the 
determination to persevere with restrictive policies. 

1683 
5/20/69 
-8-
In response to an inquiry by Chairman Martin, President Mayer 
affirmed that the Council members believed that the Federal Reserve 
was in earnest about credit restriction. The Chairman then suggested 
that Council members could help to dispel doubts in other quarters 
about the System's intentions. President Mayer remarked that the 
doubts were so deep they were hard to dispel. People listened but 
did not hear, and they remained highly skeptical. 
Mr. Gray expressed the view that the greatest doubt related 
to how far unemployment would be permitted to rise before restrictive 
economic policies were eased. The public did not believe that 
Government would let unemployment go much above 4 per cent. President 
Mayer remarked that speeches by Government officials suggesting that 
inflation could be conquered without paying a price were not helpful 
in convincing the public that a determined effort would be made. He 
added that the Council's criticism on that score was directed not at 
the Board but at other Government officials. 
Mr. Graham remarked that none of the Council members felt 
that an effective fight against inflation could be painless, nor 
did they have a crystal ball to show how high unemployment would 
have to rise before inflation was brought under control. His own 
view, which he thought had been the consensus at the Council's 
meeting yesterday, was that controlling inflation would be a very 
difficult process. Mr. Larkin remarked that reactions to policy 
measures often were prompt because people anticipated that they 

5/20/69 
-9-
would be effective. At present, however, there was a tendency to 
wait until the effects of economic restraint were brought home 
personally before giving it credence. 
Governor Sherrill asked whether there was likely to be a 
sharp turn-around in the economy if general attitudes changed sud-
denly. Mr. Larkin replied that he thought there was some danger 
of such a development but he was unable to say how likely it was. 
Governor Brimmer asked whether the businessmen who were 
skeptical about the determination of the authorities to control 
inflation distinguished between monetary and fiscal policies or 
whether they tended to lump the two together. 
Mr. Fox said he thought the business community felt that 
when the shoe began to pinch the Administration would weaken with 
respect to fiscal policy. The question was whether the Federal 
Reserve would then attempt to maintain monetary restraint in the 
face of a relaxation of fiscal policy. 
Mr. Conn remarked that when the unemployment rate rose 
above 4 or 4-1/2 per cent there would be a tremendous pressure on 
the Administration to do something about it. The Administration 
already was proposing to reduce the surtax by half on January 1 
and this morning's papers reported that the surtax might not even 
be extended beyond its June 30 expiration date. Thus, it appeared 

jLO 
5/20/69 
-10-
that little help might be forthcoming from fiscal policy. There 
was some feeling that an attempt to curb inflation solely by 
monetary measures would result in so many economic dislocations 
that it would ultimately fail no matter what the intentions of the 
Federal Reserve were. Also, there was a general feeling that when 
wages escalated prices were bound to go up. In the face of wage 
contracts providing for increases of from 12 to 20 per cent, it was 
difficult to convince anyone that inflation would really be curbed. 
And it was difficult to convince anyone that the Administration 
would really stand for a substantial increase in unemployment. 
Mr. Wheeler noted that at the beginning of the current 
period of monetary restraint there had been a general belief that 
a credit crunch, at least along the lines of that experienced in 
1966, would be avoided. That belief had provided a sense of 
security which had made it seem unnecessary to don foul weather 
gear in the prospect of a storm. It might be desirable to discon-
tinue talking in reassuring terms, so that a necessary element of 
uncertainty would again be introduced. 
Chairman Martin said it appeared the Council members felt, 
in essence, that at this juncture progress would result only from 
actions and not from words. 

5/20/69 
-11-
2. Banking developments. 
•. . 
> 
A. What is the Council's assessment of 
the probable strength of business loan 
demand in the period ahead? 
Is there 
any difference regarding the outlook 
for term-loan demand and use of out-
standing firm loan commitments and 
regular lines of credit? 
Business loan demand in the money center banks in 
the period ahead will remain strong but the volume of 
loans will increase only moderately. Business loans at 
banks outside the money centers are likely to show 
greater growth, where the availability o£ funds exists. 
The demand for term loans has lessened somewhat. 
However, more use of existing firm commitments and lines 
of credit may occur, especially if rates on commercial 
paper rise further. 
B. What are the Council's views with 
respect to the current and prospec-
tive availability of short-term 
funds to banks through the CD, 
Euro-dollar, and Federal funds 
markets? 
With the continuance of the present restrictive 
monetary policy, the Council expects that the volume of 
negotiable CD's will decline further with the result that 
banks will resort to the Federal funds market and Euro-
dollars to the extent that they are available. The 
supply of Federal funds, however, is limited by a restric-
tive monetary policy and recent developments in the Euro-
dollar market suggest that Euro-dollars also may now be in 
limited supply, and that American banks cannot look to 
this source for additional funds. 
C. To what extent has bank liquidity been 
reduced since outstanding large-denomina-
tion CD's began to decline last December? 
Is there room for much further reduction? 
What types of adjustments in policies 
affecting loans and investments have been 
made or are in prospect in response to the 
reduction in liquidity and the general 
increase in monetary restraint? 

1687 
5/20/69 
-12-
Bank liquidity, especially in the money center 
banks, has been sharply reduced since outstanding 
large-denomination CD's began to decline last December, 
with a consequent marked rise in loan-deposit ratios. 
In the money center banks, there is very little room 
for further reduction. In many banks, investment 
portfolios cannot be reduced significantly because of 
pledging and other requirements. In some banks, the 
imminence of selling securities from their portfolios 
seems increasingly great, and such sales would sub-
stantially upset security markets. Banks generally 
now have more restrictive loan policies, which are 
slowing loan expansion. 
President Mayer commented that the Council's answers 
reflected the fact that, in the face of very strong loan demands, 
the liquidity of the money center banks had been almost completely 
dissipated and that as a practical matter the various escape hatches 
were for the most part closed. The decline in term loans noted in 
fche Council's reply appeared to have occurred rather uniformly 
among banks. As to the Council's statement that more use of exist-
ing firm commitments and lines of credit might occur, he personally 
would take a stronger position; he believed that there definitely 
W)uld be such an increase. 
Mr. Craft remarked that his bank was already experiencing 
a development of that type. 
President Mayer noted that he thought the Council's answer 
with respect to the availability of Euro-dollars was a conservative 
statement. Actually, it might not be possible for banks to roll 
° V er their present holdings. 

1688 
i 
5/20/69 
> 
-13-
Governor Daane asked whether the Council's belief that 
American banks could not look to the Euro-dollar market as a 
source of additional funds reflected supply considerations or 
the deterrent effect of high interest rates. 
President Mayer responded that while rate considerations 
were not the whole story, they obviously were an important factor. 
For example, a bank facing the choice between selling municipal 
securities at a loss or acquiring Euro-dollars typically would 
calculate the highest Euro-dollar rate it could afford to pay to 
avoid the loss on municipals. If the prospective loss was sub-
stantial the bank would be willing to pay quite a high Euro-dollar 
rate to avoid it. Of course, operating on over-night or seven-day 
money made for an uncomfortable liquidity situation. In any case, 
it appeared that U.S. banks had gone about as far as feasible in 
using the Euro-dollar market as a source of funds. 
Mr. Graham added that there were times when a bank could 
n°t roll over its Euro-dollar holdings even if it were willing to 
the market up. Mr. Moore noted that while the size of the 
Euro-dollar market was not known accurately, it appeared that U.S. 
hanks were taking roughly half of the available supply. However, 
the market was an uncertain source of funds since the supply could 
d ry UP in any kind of monetary crisis. The supply had contracted 
during the recent speculative flows into German marks, but it had 
improved later when some reflow occurred. 

1689 
5/20/69 
-14-
Governor Robertson asked whether the members of the Council 
were concerned about the possible effects on the international 
monetary situation and the U.S. balance of payments if Euro-dollars 
began to flow out as a result of success in the effort to curb 
inflation. 
Mr. Moore expressed the view that on balance the U.S. 
payments situation would be improved if inflation were curbed. He 
personally was not worried about the consequences of success in the 
anti-inflationary program. 
Governor Brimmer observed that as Euro-dollars had become 
more scarce in recent weeks member banks apparently had resorted 
increasingly to the Federal Reserve discount windows. He wondered 
whether that might reflect a tempering of the reluctance of banks to 
use the windows or simply a greater need for the funds. Responses 
indicated that resort to the discount windows was far down in the 
sequence of alternatives banks used when they needed funds, even 
though the discount rate was favorable compared with rates for funds 
from other sources. 
i 
In response to a question by Governor Sherrill regarding 
current bank lending policies, President Mayer indicated that for 
some weeks banks typically had been following a much more restric-
tive policy. Governor Robertson observed that total business loans 
nevertheless were continuing to rise. Mr. Moore expressed the view 

1G90 
5/20/69 
-15-
that that was not typically the case at banks in the money centers. 
It was true, however, that some of the large finance companies were 
using a larger portion of their credit lines. President Mayer 
remarked that, as the Board knew, banks were hostage to arrangements 
made 9 or 10 months ago. 
Governor Robertson said it had been expected that the effects 
of current monetary restraint would have begun to appear by about 
this time. He wondered whether banks were in fact being sufficiently 
restrictive in their loan policies. The cooperation of bankers, 
businessmen, and everyone else was necessary if inflation was to be 
conquered; the Government could not accomplish that task by itself. 
Mr. Moore noted that, as Council members had indicated 
during recent meetings with the Board, banks could not adjust 
their loan totals in a short period. The adjustments were now being 
made, however, and the results were showing up, especially in the 
large cities. 
President Mayer remarked that neither the banks nor the 
Federal Reserve could claim to have a spotless record in fighting 
inflation, and Governor Robertson agreed. 
Mr. Nason commented that in his judgment banks had not been 
a s restrictive on loans as they should have been. Now, however, they 
had no choice; if the present degree of monetary restraint was main-
tained, banks would have to keep their lending to the irreducible 
minimum. 

1G91 
5/20/69 
-16-
President Mayer said he thought the banking industry was on 
the verge of a situation in which many banks would be pushing 
securities into the market. Chairman Martin questioned whether 
such a development would necessarily be undesirable. Mr. Wilkinson 
commented that the forces that had been set in motion were now 
accelerating. Among the consequences were the problems faced by 
State and local government authorities who found they were able to 
borrow only at rates they considered unconscionable. The question 
was whether one was prepared to accept such consequences. 
Chairman Martin said his point was that if inflation was to 
be controlled some projects had to be deferred; everyone could not 
simply go on spending at any pace desired. He did not like to see 
State and local governments unable to sell bonds to finance useful 
or important projects, but many such projects undoubtedly could be 
deferred for 6 or 9 months without hardship. The Board had followed 
this thinking itself in postponing indefinitely the construction of 
a needed annex building. 
• J.-
Mr. Nason observed that in his District municipal projects 
were now being deferred. If the Council's reading was correct, 
bank liquidity had been reduced to the point at which banks would 
be forced to shut off the supply of loans whether or not they had 
the statesmanship to do so on their own. However, if restraint were 
increased to the point at which banks were forced into large-scale 
liquidation of securities, the resulting disarray in securities 
markets might result in heavy political pressures on the System. 

5/20/69 
-17-
President Mayer said he felt sure the Board was not 
advocating that banks default on firm commitments. Governor 
Robertson replied that he thought banks should cut back wherever 
they could in order to bring about the needed curtailment of bank 
credit expansion. 
Mr. Moore said that monetary restraint presently was 
affecting some banks, especially the larger ones, more than others. 
The selective impact of restraint was evidenced by the fact that 
his bank was able to buy Federal funds from banks in other parts of 
the country that had excess reserves. He asked if it was not 
intended to apply the pressure equally, rather than mainly on large 
banks. Governor Robertson agreed that the pressure to curtail bank 
credit expansion should be applied as equally as possible. Mr. Moore 
then said that, while loans of many big city banks had actually 
declined recently, loans of banks elsewhere had been rising sharply. 
He thought means should be found to make all banks subject to about 
the same degree of restraint. Mr. Fox remarked that smaller banks 
also had commitments to meet and customer relations to preserve. 
Their 
loans had been increasing recently partly because customers 
whose needs could not be met at the larger banks were taking down 
commitments with them. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that the important question 
facing everyone concerned was one of basic attitude. The matter of 
commitments had been discussed at several of the Council's recent 

5/20/69 
-18-
meetings with the Board, and certainly no one wanted firm commitments 
to be broken. However, it was his impression that as the pressure 
increased during the past several months there had been a change of 
attitude on the part of many banks, from one in which the need to 
cooperate in national policy had been acknowledged to one in which 
service to the customer was placed foremost. Given the current state 
of world-wide demands for credit, he doubted that the latter attitude 
was consistent with the objective of bringing inflation under control. 
The change in attitude might not have been general, but he had 
received indications of it in conversations with a variety of bankers. 
There seemed to be a feeling that distortions in the money market 
would have to be avoided at all costs. He agreed with Mr. Wheeler's 
earlier comment that it might have been unwise to give the impression 
that there would be no credit crunch. To reiterate, the problem was 
one of basic attitude. While no one was advocating that banks break 
existing commitments, they could exercise care in making new ones. 
He was willing to accept Mr. Nason's statement that banks now had 
little choice but to pursue more restrictive loan policies, but he 
regretted that they had not adopted that course 6 months earlier. 
President Mayer agreed that banks had been late in arriving 
at that point. 
r 
•• : y 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had recently traveled 
rather extensively about the country and had observed the problem 

1694 
i 
5/20/69 
> 
-19-
from the standpoint of banks outside the money centers. In one or 
two instances he had received the impression that money market banks, 
being under great pressure, had referred their good customers to 
correspondents outside the money centers with a clear implication 
that the correspondent should help out if it wanted to maintain its 
relationship with the money center bank. He inquired about the 
extent to which such pressure was being exerted. 
Mr. Moore remarked that a large bank could not treat its 
correspondents in that way. What was occurring was that large 
corporations that had kept balances in various banks outside the 
money centers were now exploring the possibilities of obtaining 
credit from those banks. It was true that his bank had suggested 
to some customers that they could get money more cheaply and easily 
elsewhere. 
Mr. Gray said he knew of no case where a smaller bank such 
as his had experienced any real pressure from a large correspondent 
to make a loan, although quite often an opportunity to do so was 
offered. The real pressure came irom the corporate treasurer who 
would point to the balance he had maintained for some time without 
asking for credit and inquire whether credit would now be available 
and on what terms. Mr. Gray did not believe that a small bank was 
doing anything wrong in responding to legitimate credit requests of 
that sort; in fact, he did not see how it could be expected to do 
otherwise if the request was a reasonable one. 

5/20/69 
-20-
Mr. Fox agreed that large banks had not exerted such 
pressure; if anything, it was the smaller correspondents that at 
times put pressure on the large banks. He added that many large 
corporations that had renewed loan commitments from smaller banks 
year after year without ever using them were now asking to use 
those commitments of their own accord, and not at the instigation 
of the large banks. 
Governor Brimmer said he was not surprised that corporate 
treasurers were now activating credit lines; that was to be 
expected. His question was directed at intermediate situations 
in which the smaller bank had an option with respect to granting 
the credit, and he had raised it in order to learn whether the 
instances of pressure of which he had heard reflected a general 
pattern. 
Mr. Craft remarked that his bank had never experienced 
that type of pressure. Mr. Conn concurred in the view that it 
was simply a case of corporations, finding money tight in New York, 
turning to other banks at which they had carried large balances for 
many years. Other members of the Council spoke in a similar vein. 
Mr. Gray observed that it was typical in periods of monetary 
restraint for liquidity to be used up first at the money center 
banks and later at the interior banks. The liquidity position of 

1636 
5/20/69 
-21-
country banks was now deteriorating rather rapidly, in the classic 
pattern. 
In the Council's judgment, the various devices some 
banks have been using to obtain funds in forms not subject 
to Regulations D and Q do not lessen the control of the 
monetary authorities over bank reserves. These techniques 
in no way increase the reserves available to the system, 
and thus the growth of deposits and bank credit. 
President Mayer said the Council was aware that the Board 
was not likely to be satisfied with that answer, but nevertheless 
ilvF'l ' 
; 
considered it correct. In the Council's judgment, it was unnecessary 
for the Federal Reserve to amend existing regulations to make them 
• iCr.. • • 
m o r e effective, since it could achieve any desired degree of restraint 
through 
its control over bank reserves. As the Council's statement 
indicated, bank use of the devices in question resulted in a redis-
tribution of existing reserves and not in the creation of new 
reserves. 
D. What, in the Council's judgment, are the 
implications for monetary policy and bank 
regulat ion of the various devices some 
banks have recently been exploring and 
using to obtain funds in forms not subject 
to Regulation D (Reserves of Member Banks) 
and Regulation Q 
(Payment of Interest on 
Deposits)--such as sales of commercial 
paper by a wholly-owned subsidiary or by 
a one-bank holding company, sales of 
assets to foreign branches, and sales of 
loan participations to nonbank customers 
under repurchase agreements? 

1637 
5/20/69 
-22-
Governor Maisel said he thought there was a basic misunder-
standing about reserves. The Council's answer implied that the 
Federal Reserve created reserves which banks then put to use. He 
thought it was more realistic to view the causation as running in 
the other direction; banks created deposits in the course of their 
lending and investing activities, and two weeks later the System, 
through its open market operations, supplied the reserves necessary 
to support those deposits. In short, it was the banks rather than 
the Federal Reserve that basically controlled the amount of reserves 
in existence. 
Mr. Moore remarked that the Federal Reserve had the option 
of not supplying the additional reserves banks needed to support 
a deposit expansion, and thus could force the banks to back down. 
Governor Maisel replied that if banks were forced to back 
down it was likely to be only to a small extent. Since the System 
customarily set its targets for open market operations in terms of 
money market rates and marginal reserve measures, it typically 
supplied the bulk of any increase in required reserves; at most, 
banks had to borrow only a small part of such increases. He was 
convinced that if the Regulation Q ceilings had not been maintained 
at their present levels over the past 6 months, the Federal Reserve 
would have created substantially more reserves than it had. 

1633 
i 
5/20/69 
> 
-23-
President Mayer commented that as he understood it Governor 
Maisel was saying that the Federal Reserve typically supplied what-
ever volume of reserves the banking system demanded. Governor Maisel 
confirmed that understanding, adding that at times the System might 
make it slightly more difficult for banks to get reserves. Governor 
Sherrill noted that in periods of restraint the Federal Reserve 
could cut reserves only marginally, since a drastic cut when bank 
credit was expanding rapidly could be disastrous. 
Governor Daane observed that it was nevertheless true that 
the System did supply the reserve base underlying bank deposits 
through its open market purchases, and at times it had supplied 
more reserves than was warranted by the economic situation. But 
setting aside questions of reserves, it seemed clear to him that 
when a bank raised funds through one of the devices under discussion 
it increased its ability to lend over what it otherwise would have 
been. 
Governor Maisel agreed. He noted that bank credit but not 
deposits rose when such funds were put to work. In contrast, if the 
funds were obtained through, say, a sale of CD's, both bank credit 
and deposits--as well as required reserves — increased. The central 
Question was whether it was bank credit or bank deposits that was 
related to spending on goods and services. 

1633 
i 
5/20/69 
> 
-24-
President Mayer said he thought there would be general 
^agreement on the proposition that the devices in question mobilized 
:! credit at the points where it was apt to be used. However, he was 
not sure that they resulted in a net addition to the amount of 
bank credit. 
Governor Maisel commented that while one might describe 
the process in terms of mobilizing credit, that process could never-
theless generate a greater total demand for goods and services. 
Mr. Moore remarked that he did not see any difference 
between the effects of a sale of commercial paper by a one-bank 
holding company and a sale of such paper by an industrial corpora-
tion. 
Governor Brimmer said he thought there was a considerable 
difference between the effects of a sale of paper by a corporation 
to finance its own business and a sale by a bank holding company to 
provide funds for general lending by its subsidiary bank. When a 
bank placed its imprimatur on paper it made that paper much more 
attractive. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that while the 
technicalities were important the real question was the one of 
attitude that he had mentioned during discussion of the preceding 
topic. By using these devices, were banks working to support or 

1700 
5/20/69 
-25-
to thwart the current restrictive monetary policy? If the primary 
aim was to provide service to customers without regard to the over-
all problem, use of the devices did not help to support monetary 
restraint. 
Mr. Graham said his bank and, he believed, banks in general, 
looked upon such devices as providing alternative rather than 
additional sources of funds. For example, a bank might find that 
it could replace some Euro-dollar liabilities with funds obtained 
at a lower rate in the commercial paper market. When it did so it 
would be maintaining its pool of funds but not enlarging it. Thus 
far his bank had been using commercial paper to only a very modest 
extent, primarily for the purpose of exploring the mechanics of 
the market. Governor Maisel said some bankers had told him that 
their ability to obtain funds in the commercial paper market deter-
mined whether or not they would cut down on certain types of loans, 
and Mr. Graham indicated that that had not been true of his bank. 
Governor Brimmer asked why it was thought that banks should 
be able to maintain their sources of funds in a period of excessive 
a8gregate demand for resources. It was not clear to him how a 
Policy of monetary restraint could be expected to be effective if 
banks devoted themselves to devising means for avoiding the restric-
tive effects of regulations. 

1.701 
i 
5/20/69 
> 
-26-
Mr. Moore noted that the commercial paper market was a more 
stable source of funds than the seven-day Euro-dollar market. In 
any case, banks were now becoming more restrictive in their lending 
policies, although not yet with respect to consumer credit or small 
business credit. 
Governors Brimmer and Daane took exception to the implication 
that the Board need have no concern that banks were resorting to the 
devices mentioned. It seemed to Governor Daane that through such 
methods banks were in some degree thwarting monetary policy by 
enabling themselves to continue to meet marginal demands for credit 
that should be cut off. 
> 
Mr. Larkin commented that the key problem was that the Board 
wanted the banking industry to restrain itself. That laudable objec-
tive would not be difficult to accomplish if, as in Canada or England, 
there were only a few banks in the United States, but in fact there 
were thousands of banks. Moreover, U.S. banks were required by law 
to be highly competitive; although agreements among them to operate 
in 
! 
11 a certain way might be helpful in restraining inflation, they 
? : 
, 
would be illegal. Given the competition in the banking industry, 
L h 
( 
e personally could not face his board of directors, his stockholders, 
a°d his employees with a proposal to hold back voluntarily in making 
loans and let competing banks take away his bank's customers. He 

17€2 
! I. 
5/20/69 
-27-
could not respond in any major way to appeals for restraint in 
lending until he had no choice. In general, under the structure 
of banking in this country he thought it was not reasonable to 
ask banks to act against their self-interest. He was offering 
these comments not as an excuse but as an explanation. 
Governor Daane remarked that to some extent the Board's 
concern over the new devices reflected the fact that responsible 
bankers had taken the lead in developing sources of funds outside 
the present reach of Regulations D and Q. It was to be expected 
that other banks would then follow. 
Mr. Larkin asked whether the Board would be willing now 
to call in, say, the top fifty bankers to ask them to take the 
lead in refraining from use of the devices in question. Governor 
Brimmer commented that such a suggestion--for some sort of volun-
tary credit restraint program—seemed to be a corollary of the 
position that Council members were taking in the discussion today. 
Governor Robertson commented that one alternative would be to lay 
down rules for lending from which no bank would be permitted to 
deviate. He did not think anyone would want that done. It would 
be preferable, he believed, to try to correct the defects in 
present regulations, such as the commercial paper loophole. 

1703 
i 
5/20/69 
> 
-28-
Mr. Nason said he thought the major banks, having exhausted 
their own liquidity, were resorting to such devices as commercial 
paper and loan participations in order to survive while the country 
banks used up their liquidity. Without access to funds from such 
sources recently, the large New York City banks, for example, might 
not have been able to keep going. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that if the large 
banks had not resorted to such devices to maintain their lending 
ability, inflation would have been brought under control by now; 
the message would have been conveyed--not only to other bankers but 
also to businessmen--that it was time to pull back. 
Governor Sherrill said he personally had been opposed to 
limiting bank access to the Euro-dollar market so that banks would 
have time to reconsider their loan policies and to slow their 
lending gradually. However, with banks drawing on the pool of 
corporate liquidity to maintain their lending it was not clear 
that that objective would be achieved. 
Governor Daane commented that he too had regarded the use 
Euro-dollars as a cushion to permit an orderly adjustment, but 
he considered use of the new devices to avoid the need for adjust-
ment to be another matter. He would not put recourse to the Euro-
dollar market in the same category as the sale of commercial paper 
and loan participations. 

5/20/69 
-29-
Governor Brimmer remarked that continuing bank efforts to 
develop new sources of funds could well force the Board to the 
unpleasant alternative Governor Robertson had mentioned. He would 
hope that by its actions the banking industry would enable the 
Board to stop short of that alternative. 
Mr. Graham observed that the Board members seemed to be 
assuming that banks had turned to the new sources to enable them 
to continue to increase loans. As he had indicated earlier, that 
was not necessarily true; in general, he thought banks were not 
enlarging the over-all pool of funds by drawing on those sources. 
Mr. Moore expressed the view that banks in the big cities were 
now simply trying to hold their own rather than to increase their 
loans. In his judgment the Federal Reserve was accomplishing its 
objective. 
Governor Brimmer observed that total bank loans were 
continuing to grow. 
Governor Maisel said he could understand why banks had 
turned to the devices in question under existing circumstances, 
and he thought Mr. Larkin's point that it was not reasonable to 
expect bankers to restrain themselves in the face of competition 
was a valid one. However, he could not accept the assumption that 
such devices did not increase the pool of credit. And he thought 

5/20/69 
-30-
everyone should understand clearly that they were not a matter 
about which the Board need have no concern. 
Mr. Gray said that while no one wanted to be the cutting 
edge of a restraint effort, bankers should ask themselves who 
would perform the task if they were unwilling to do so. 
Mr. Conn observed that competitive forces might make a 
bank do things it otherwise would prefer not to do. He knew of 
no method by which a number of bankers could agree upon common 
policies without risking charges of restraint of trade. Since 
banks were unable to police themselves or to escape the forces of 
competition, it was up to the Board to create whatever degree of 
restraint was necessary; there seemed to be no other answer to the 
Problem. If the Board closed what it considered to be loopholes 
in its existing regulations, there were sure to be some entre-
preneurs who would find other loopholes. 
3. Regulatory matters. 
A. The Board would be interested in the views 
of Council members with respect to the one-
bank holding company legislation now under 
consideration in Congress. 
The members of the Council believe that the provision 
of the Administration bill, which places the supervision of 
bank holding companies among the three Federal banking 
agencies, is to be preferred over the provision in the 
Patman bill, which would delegate all authority to the 
Federal Reserve Board. Bank supervision and regulation 
have traditionally been divided among the Federal Reserve, 
the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation. The only major exception to the 

5/20/69 
-31-
three-agency approach involved the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, which placed supervision over all registered 
bank holding companies in the Federal Reserve Board. 
According to many banks subject to such regulation, the 
Board has been unduly restrictive in its interpretations 
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and also slow 
to make decisions. In part, this may account for the 
recent growth in one-bank holding companies. 
The Administration bill has a generally unsatis-
factory provision concerning the determination of per-
missible activities of one-bank holding companies under 
the legislation--namely, a unanimous vote of the three 
banking agencies. The Council believes that such deter-
mination should be made by a majority vote of the three 
banking agencies, so that the most restrictive view among 
the three agencies would not prevail. 
We believe that Congress should enact reasonable 
and flexible legislation that will permit one-bank holding 
companies to enter fields which are "financial or related 
to finance in nature, or of a fiduciary or insurance nature," 
the language of the Administration bill. 
We agree with the Administration bill with reference 
to the creation of a list of permissible activities of bank 
holding companies. If, however, Congress should choose to 
make such a list a part of the statute, then it is imperative 
an open-end provision be included. As times change and as 
new needs and technologies develop, the nature and functions 
of banking should continue to evolve, as they have in the 
past. Once a statutory list of permissible activities has 
been determined, it would be extremely difficult to change 
it. 
The "tie-in" provisions of the Administration bill 
seem to be not only redundant, in view of other anti-trust 
statutes, but so loosely worded that they might prohibit 
certain customary, necessary, and desirable banking 
practices--e.g., compensating balances, negative convenants 
in loan agreements, etc. 

1707 
5/20/69 
-32-
Chairman Martin commented that the Council's opinion 
had been clearly presented and, since the Board's views were well 
known, he did not believe it was necessary to have general discus-
sion of this topic. 
B. The Board would appreciate having any views 
of the Council regarding the regulations 
designed to foster greater clarity in adver-
tisements by member banks of the interest they 
pay on deposits. 
The Council believes that present regulation designed 
to foster greater clarity in advertisements still permit banks 
to engage in advertising that confuses and may mislead the 
public. As a consequence, more stringent regulations would be 
desirable, provided these are applied to all savings institu-
tions . 
I 
; , - ' 
' • ' 
President Mayer said he understood that the Board had tried 
unsuccessfully to obtain acceptance by the other responsible super-
visory agencies of a more stringent regulation. Under the circum-
stances, the Board had taken the proper course, but it was unfortunate 
that so much work had been done with so little effective result. It 
was expensive to stand on one's principles if a competitor was 
running advertisements full of gimmickry, but a bank should not be 
less than honest. 
Messrs. Craft and Fox indicated that they were among a 
minority of the Council members who had been in favor of omitting 
the last phrase of the Council's answer, "provided these are applied 
to all savings institutions." 

1708 
5/20/69 
-33-
President Mayer expressed the view that bank advertising 
did not represent banks in their finest hour. Perhaps bankers 
were unduly influenced by the mystique of the advertising and 
marketing people they employed and tolerated approaches they 
would find unacceptable in any other aspect of their business. 
C. The Board would be interested in any 
comments the Council might have 
regarding the adequacy of the prep-
arations being made by commercial 
banks, the creditors from whom they 
purchase paper, and other lenders 
in connection with the Truth in 
Lending regulation, which becomes 
effective on July 1. Are the 
Council members aware of any major 
problems requiring the attention 
of the Board in the period remaining 
before July 1? 
The members of the Council approve the regulation 
in principle, and banks are moving as rapidly as possible 
to comply with its provisions. A development that has 
complicated the task has been the fact that interpretations 
have amended the regulation and seemingly have gone beyond 
the statute. 
(Note: There is set out below the text of a memorandum 
also submitted by the Council outlining its views in more detail.) 
We offer the following comments on three major 
problems arising in compliance with the Regulation. 
1. Many banks, both large and small, are finding it 
difficult to prepare by the July 1 deadline, for 
the following reasons: 
(a) Disclosure forms 
(b) Revisions of present notes 
(c) Revision of lending procedures, especially 
the changing of computer programs. 

1709 
5/20/69 
-34-
Progress has been hindered by the fact that the Regulation 
was not issued until February 7, a supplement issued 
March 27, and interpretations issued April 2, April 22, 
and May 5, necessitating additional changes in forms and 
procedures. In addition, smaller bank correspondents 
are depending on large banks to inform them regarding 
forms and procedures. Large numbers of employees must 
be trained to use the new forms and procedures. Thus, 
we suggest that serious consideration be given to 
extending the deadline for enforcement of the Regulation. 
2. In Regulation Z, as promulgated by the Board of Governors, 
Section 226.9(a) and 226.2(z) will have a serious and 
unwarranted adverse affect on use of the confession of 
judgment clause in credit or loan instruments in Pennsylvania. 
We believe that the Board has gone beyond the wording and 
intent of the law in this regard. 
Section 226.9(a) provides that a customer shall have a 
right to rescind a credit transaction within a prescribed 
period if a security interest is or will be retained or 
acquired in any real property which is used or expected to 
be used as the principal residence of the customer. 
(Emphasis supplied. The underlined phrase goes beyond the 
wording of the statute.) The confession of judgment clause 
used in Pennsylvania and with some modifications in several 
other states has been construed as such a security interest. 
Thus, banks retaining judgment clauses would not be able to 
disburse funds under their credit card programs until the 
three-day rescission period has passed. Similarly, this 
would apply to instalment loans and loans made by auto 
dealers where the banks purchased the paper. The funds in 
these instances could not be disbursed or the automobile 
delivered until the passage of the rescission period. The 
same problem would arise with any revolving credit plan 
and even with single-payment loans to individuals, secured 
or unsecured, as long as the individual owned a residence. 
We are informed that a similar problem arises in Ohio, 
where the Board's regulations could be interpreted to include 
a cognovit provision in notes which has been customary in 
that state for years, as a lien on real estate leading to the 
necessity of complying with the rescission provisions. 

1710 
5/20/69 
-35-
3. Another important collection device for many banks is 
the spreader clause which is contained in many notes. 
If a borrower pledges collateral on one obligation and 
later makes other loans from the bank, the subsequent 
loans are automatically covered by the collateral on 
the earlier obligation. 
If we use the spreader clause on the first 
obligation, we must disclose that fact, plus a descrip-
tion of the collateral, to the borrower before disburs-
ing the proceeds of his subsequent borrowings. Under 
Regulation Z, if these subsequent borrowings are 
instalment loans, credit card purchases, or notes 
purchased from automobile and applicance dealers, the 
problem involved in informing the borrower of the 
spreader clause and the collateral involved makes the 
use of the spreader clause impractical. This negates 
another important collection tool. 
President Mayer emphasized that the Council's comments were 
not intended as criticism of the Board. A new field was being plowed, 
and obviously the regulations had to be interpreted and clarified. 
However, in view of the dates at which Regulation Z and the inter-
pretations had been issued, the time bind was difficult, especially 
for banks that found they had to revise the computer procedures they 
had initially developed. 
Mr. Larkin added that there also was little time to do the 
tremendous job of educating the multitude of people who had to be 
informed about Regulation Z. 
President Mayer remarked that the Council did not mean to 
convey the impression that compliance with the regulation would 
• O i v I", .• 
. 
Place an undue burden on banks relative to others who were covered 

1711 
i 
5/20/69 
-36-
by it. Qui te the contrary; in the long run the regulation undoubtedly 
would help banks, which traditionally had done a better job in dealing 
fairly with the customer. 
Governor Robertson said he might comment briefly on each of 
the three problems the Council had noted. First, those responsible 
for developing the regulation were quite aware of the difficulty of 
meeting the deadline and were exploring the question of whether any-
thing could be done to ease that difficulty, either administratively 
or by legislation. One particularly serious problem was that the 
chart makers, who had been sure they could provide all of the 
necessary tables in time, now found they were unable to do so. It 
might be possible to maneuver around that problem, perhaps by putting 
out another interpretation. 
Governor Robertson went on to say that the problem of 
confession of judgment clauses, which was pertinent in several 
States, was an especially serious one. The Federal statute clearly 
said that if there was a lien on a residence, no matter in what 
form, a three-day notice of possible rescission had to be given. 
The only possible relief at the Federal level would be to change 
the statute, and it was not likely that that would be done because 
one of the main purposes of the law was to protect the consumer in 
connection with credits that involved liens on residences. Thus, 

1712 
5/ A- ' 
5/20/69 
-37-
the only available solution--and the one that had been suggested to 
delegations from the States involved—was for those States to exclude 
liens on residences from the confession of judgment clause. The 
objection had been made that such a course would not offer a solution 
in States that did not permit garnishment proceedings, but he was not 
aware of any alternative. 
Finally, Governor Robertson remarked, consideration was being 
given to possible means for easing the difficulties relating to the 
use of a spreader clause, in which previously pledged collateral was 
1 
t " 
carried over to a new extension of credit. Many people would argue 
that the collateral should be specified, but others suggested that 
the phrase "previously pledged collateral" might provide a solution. 
Mr. Wheeler observed, with respect to the time problem, that 
when truth-in-lending legislation was enacted in Massachusetts about 
two years ago strict enforcement was waived for a period of 60 to 
90 days beyond the effective date. That had provided a comfortable 
adjustment period. 
Governor Robertson commented that while such a procedure 
might be feasible in connection with Federal enforcement of the 
national statute, there was no way to prevent civil suits after the 
effective date of that statute except through legislative action. 
In any case, there was a question whether postponing the effective 

1713 
5/20/69 
-38-
date for, say, 6 months would do any good; the same problem might 
well be encountered at the new effective date. 
4. Balance of payments. 
What are the Council's views regarding 
the revised balance of payments program, 
including the Board's guidelines? 
The Council regards the recent modifications of the 
balance of payments program as steps in the right direction. 
It is in the best interest of the United States to promote 
freer international capital movements by removing restrictive 
programs with all due speed. 
The main balance of payments problem is in the trade 
•-count now, and the current anti-inflation policies should 
help to redress the current account. 
It is disappointing that the revised guidelines still 
contain no exemption for the financing of U.S. exports. 
Governor Brimmer said he thought the findings of the recent 
L* i 
regional meetings on the foreign credit restraint program made it 
clear that there was little substance to the arguments that had been 
advanced for exempting export credits. The real problem that emerged 
during the review was that major banks with larger ceilings and foreign 
^ranches were able to obtain foreign business at the expense of smaller 
banks without such flexibility. 
Co 
s, 
, 
Apart from the conflict between large and small banks, 
Governor Brimmer continued, there was a basic question of the 
implications of relaxations in the program for the U.S. balance 

1VX4 
5/20/69 
-39-
of payments. In interagency discussions he and Governor Daane had 
argued against massive relaxation. He was not at all hopeful about 
the outlook for the balance of payments in 1969. Whatever degree of 
success was attained in the effort to curb inflation, it was not 
likely that the trade balance would improve enough in 1969 to make 
any major contribution to improvement in the over-all payments 
balance; the rate of increase in imports could not be expected to 
fall fast enough for that purpose. Given the continuing seriousness 
of the problem, he thought the foreign credit restraint program was 
exactly the kind of hedge that was needed. Therefore, he had not 
recommended any major changes in the program. 
Mr. Moore, referring to Governor Brimmer's comment about the 
conflict between large and small banks, recalled that he had suggested 
earlier that small banks be exempted from the program and that the 
controls be retained only for large banks. Governor Brimmer replied 
that that course had not been considered feasible. However, the 
Program as recently revised did provide an additional leeway of about 
$400 million to the smaller banks, which made it possible for them 
to take care of their most urgent needs. 
5. What are the Council's views on monetary and 
credit policy under current circumstances? 
'•SiO c i <~ v 
The Council believes there is no practical alternative 
to a restrictive credit policy designed to slow the rise in 
prices and reduce the expectation of inflation. There has 
been some disappointment with the seeming lack of results 
from the slowdown in the growth of money and bank credit since 

5/20/69 
-40-
late 1968. However, the lack of response in the current 
statistics of business activity should not be viewed as 
a signal to intensify restraint. On the contrary, 
patience is now needed to wait out the period between 
the application of a restrictive monetary policy and the 
subsequent impact on business activity. Although further 
drastic action is not now called for, it is equally clear 
that the urgent need to bring inflation under control 
points to the desirability of maintaining a tight credit 
rein at this time. 
In the months ahead, the Federal Reserve will have 
to steer a difficult course between the advocates of more 
restraint and those who urge a more accommodating stance 
out of fear that tight credit may bring about a business 
recession. However, the gravity of the wage-price spiral 
and the threat to future prosperity posed by worsening 
inflationary pressures suggest that the risk and dangers 
of a failure successfully to attack inflation are greater 
than those of a decline in economic activity. 
Present monetary policy continues to produce a 
distortion in credit flows through the use of Regulation Q 
ceilings. Even if Regulation Q ceilings on time deposit 
interest rates were raised or eliminated, there would be 
no basic effect on the ability of the Federal Reserve to 
control the rate of growth of deposits and bank credit. 
The majority of the members of the Council believe 
that the Regulation Q ceilings on large-denomination 
negotiable CD's (e.g., $100,000 and over) should be raised 
in order to lessen the present excessive pressure on the 
money center banks. The funds represented by large CD's do 
not compete in any meaningful way with the flow of savings 
into financial intermediaries 
specialize in home 
mortgage lending. 
President Mayer commented that while the Council was not 
Unanimous on the subject of Regulation Q ceilings, a larger 
majority than earlier now thought that the ceilings on large-
denomination CD's should be raised. 

i7i<; 
5/20/69 
-41-
Mr. Gray said he still felt there should not be any 
relaxation of Regulation Q. He believed that regardless of the 
rationale offered for such a move, the public was likely to regard 
it as an indication that the Federal Reserve and the banking 
industry were relaxing in the effort to fight inflation. Mr. Fox 
said he remained with the minority on this question, and Mr. Conn 
indicated that his conviction that a relaxation of Regulation Q 
was undesirable was deeper now than at the time of the last meeting. 
Chairman Martin inquired whether the Council had any 
further advice as to the appropriate course of monetary policy, 
including open market policy, in this difficult period. Members 
°f the Council expressed the view that the general stance of policy 
was appropriate and that there should be neither easing nor further 
tightening. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on September 15-16, 1969. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
