MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 18, 1970 

23S1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, August 18, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
2:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Ma i s e1 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Mr. Plotkin, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
SEANZA. Unanimous approval was given to the recommendation of 
the Division of International Finance that Richard Gorin, an economist 
on the staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, be nominated 
to attend the Eighth SEANZA Central Banking Course, to be held in 
Manila from October 5 to December 11, 1970. 
Private Export Funding Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated 
August 12, 1970, the staff discussed the application of Private Export 

8/18/70 
-2-
Funding Corporation to become an Agreement corporation operating under 
section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
PEFCO, incorporated under the 
laws of the State of Delaware, had been organized following a study 
under the aegis of the Bankers Association for Foreign Trade and after 
extensive negotiations with the Export-Import Bank. The Board had 
previously indicated (in 1968) its general support for PEFCO as an 
organization (to be owned primarily by United States banks) that would 
help mobilize additional private capital to finance U.S. exports of jet 
aircraft and other capital goods. However, on the basis of information 
then available, the Board had taken the interim position that, while 
PEFCO would be a permissible investment for Edge corporations, it was 
doubtful that PEFCO could be regarded as "principally engaged in 
international or foreign banking," which activity was a statutory 
requirement for an Agreement corporation. 
On the basis of material changes from the previous proposal 
and other arguments, the Board had now been requested to reconsider its 
earlier position and allow PEFCO to operate as an Agreement corporation. 
In that connection, several questions had also been raised. Attached 
to the memorandum were alternative letters that would approve or deny 
PEFCO's application to become an Agreement corporation. 
In another memorandum dated August 12, 1970, Mr. Hexter dis-
cussed legal aspects of the question whether PEFCO might become an 
Agreement corporation. 
On the basis of the legislative history of 

23 S3 
8/18/70 
-3-
sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, he concluded that 
the better interpretation was the one previously adopted by the Board, 
namely, that a corporation, such as PEFCO, that obtains its funds 
through the issuance of its securities and engages in lending those 
funds to finance United States exports is not "principally engaged in 
international or foreign banking" within the purview of section 25 and 
therefore is not eligible to become an Agreement corporation. 
Mr. Hackley 
concurred. 
Following a summarization byjGovernor Brimmer of the issues 
involved, there was a discussion during which it was generally agreed 
by the staff, and by members of the Board who spoke on the subject, 
that the objective sought to be achieved by the PEFCO organizers was 
commendable and in the national interest. 
It was also agreed that it 
would appear to make little difference, from the standpoint of economic 
considerations, whether PEFCO operated as an Agreement corporation or 
as a corporation in which Edge corporations would make investments, 
assuming that the latter route was in fact feasible. Accordingly, the 
discussion turned to the question whether it appeared that the program 
could be carried out successfully if the application to form an Agree-
ment corporation were denied or whether, as alleged by the proponents, 
the obstacles would then be such as to risk the success of the venture. 
The reasons presented by the proponents for preferring the Agreement 
corporation vehicle were reviewed at some length, along with the 

25384 
8/18/70 
-4-
difficulties said to be involved in following the alternative course, 
including the prospect that the scope of operations might be limited 
by a failure to attract investments by smaller banks, particularly those 
not having Edge corporation subsidiaries. 
The possibility of forming a 
multi-bank Edge corporation for the purpose of investing in PEFCO was 
mentioned. 
It appeared to be the consensus of those who had studied 
the problem closely that the chances of success, even if the Agreement 
corporation application were denied, might be regarded as fairly good. 
In the end, therefore, the question came down to the weight 
that should be attached to the legal opinion. There was some explora-
tion of the degree of latitude available to the Board in the light of 
that opinion. Although a certain degree of latitude for difference of 
judgment was admitted, several members of the Board commented that they 
believed the legal argument to be sound and to offer little choice. 
Accordingly, it was agreed unanimously to support the legal 
opinion and on that ground to advise PEFCO that the Board was not in 
a position to approve the application of PEFCO to become an Agreement 
corporation. 
Consideration was given to the manner in which the Board's 
position should be communicated to PEFCO, and sentiment was expressed 
in favor of allowing the application to be withdrawn if the proponents 
so desired. At the conclusion of the discussion, it was decided that 
the advice given to PEFCO should be basically in terms that the Board 
had considered the application and would not approve it, with indication 

2385 
8/18/70 
-5-
of the reasons. 
It was also generally understood that if the proponents 
then decided to proceed along the route of soliciting investments in 
PEFCO by Edge corporations, the Board would be prepared to cooperate 
by expediting action on investment applications. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
