MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 15, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Wednesday, April 15, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Mr. Plotkin, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Also present were: 
President Hayes of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, President 
Eastburn of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia, President Francis of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and 
President Galusha of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis (members of the Joint 
Board-Presidents' Conference Committee on 
the Retirement System). 
Retirement System investment arrangements. 
The Board had agreed 
to meet with the President members of the Joint Board-Presidents' Con-
ference Committee on the Retirement System, as requested by President 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1.189 
4/15/70 
-2-
Galusha (Chairman of the Committee) in a letter dated March 16, 1970, 
for the purpose of clarifying the area to be studied by the Committee 
in drawing up a specific proposal for revision of the investment arrange-
ments covering Retirement System funds. 
Governor Maisel, who, together with Governor Brimmer, represented 
the Board on the Joint Committee, favored investment in U.S. Government 
securities only, and in a letter to President Galusha dated January 26, 
1970, had set forth his philosophy with respect to investment policies. 
A copy of his letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
There was agreement among the Committee members that a primary 
objective of a revised procedure should be insulation against possible 
conflict of interest charges. 
However, the President members of the 
Committee supported the further objective of achieving the lowest net 
cost consistent with the first objective and with industry practices for 
the handling of similar funds. 
In a memorandum dated April 13, 1970, Mr. Sherman discussed the 
investment procedures followed by the Retirement System in the past, 
the objectives sought to be achieved by a revised procedure, and the 
main issue to be considered at this time, namely, whether the pension 
accumulation funds should be invested in U.S. Government securities only 
o r whether an investment adviser or advisers should be hired and given 
general discretion to invest those funds in stocks, bonds, mortgages, etc. 

1132 
4/15/70 
-3-
At today's meeting President Galusha presented a summary of his 
views, as set forth in.a letter dated April 14, 1970, a copy of which 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
In response to questions, President Galusha expressed the 
opinion that under a plan of the kind he envisaged it would be inappro-
priate for the Trustees of the Retirement System to make or review 
individual investment portfolio decisions, but that it would be appro-
priate to review total performance periodically, perhaps on a three-year 
pattern. 
Criteria that could be used in making such a review might 
include the efficiency of administrative relationships, yields in terms 
of trend line of performance, and cost to the System, recognizing that 
the true cost of a pension plan is determined by measuring the cost of 
total benefits plus administrative costs against investment returns. 
He stressed the importance of cost control as an operating principle, 
and in this connection pointed out that efficient investment procedures 
would minimize the cost of System operations, with resulting savings 
to the Treasury and ultimately to the taxpayer. 
He did not envisage 
that review of performance would result in frequent changes of invest-
ment managers, but he considered it important that the right to make 
changes be reserved. 
Various possible alternative procedures also were mentioned, 
including a plan that would contemplate investment of a portion of the 
funds in a selected list of mutual funds and investment of the remainder 

1191 
4/15/70 
-4-
through contract with a bank or insurance company on a fixed income 
basis; purchase of unit shares in a pool, trust, or mutual fund; and 
engaging the services of a bank or insurance company to administer the 
funds in accordance with prescribed general guidelines. 
President Hayes expressed the view that the conflict of interest 
problem was more theoretical than real. The Retirement System had been 
operated successfully, with a minimum of criticism, and he did not 
believe that the risk of charges of conflict of interest was of suffi-
cient importance to warrant any drastic change. It might be alleged 
that some potential conflict of interest existed because Presidents and 
some other Reserve Bank officers who were beneficiaries under the Retire-
ment System had a voice in open market operations, but there was no 
relationship between their benefits and the return on Retirement System 
funds; it could not be argued validly that any conflict existed by 
reason of their being beneficiaries, and the only danger was the impres-
sion of possible conflict of interest. The kind of solution proposed 
by President Galusha would eliminate any minimal risk of criticism by 
divorcing System personnel from day-to-day operations in the investment 
of Retirement System funds, and the plan would be consistent with the 
entire body of thought on how pension funds should be invested. He saw 
n o reason to depart from the basic principle of trying to reduce costs 
to the System, as in other System operations. 

1132 
4/15/70 
- 5-
Presidents Eastburn and Francis also favored proceeding generally 
along the lines recommended by President Galusha, for the reasons that 
had been developed by the latter. 
Governor Maisel spoke in amplification of the views expressed 
in his letter of January 26, 1970, to President Galusha, and Governor 
Brimmer expressed his support of Governor Maisel's philosophy and con-
clusions, as did Governor Robertson. 
However, comments by other members of the Board indicated that 
there was a sufficient interest in the approach proposed by President 
Galusha to warrant development of a specific proposal for consideration 
by the Board. 
Governors Maisel and Brimmer suggested that in the circumstances 
the Joint Committee be discharged, or at least that the Board members 
serving thereon be relieved from further service, since there appeared 
to be no necessity for continued debate of the fundamental issue and 
the development of a specific proposal would involve principally tech-
nical considerations. 
However, the consensus was that the Committee, 
a s presently constituted, should remain operative, particularly since 
there were other aspects of the proposed restructuring of the Retirement 
System 
that would require further deliberation 
Aft 
er further discussion, it was understood that a specific 
I , 
Proposal relating to investment of retirement funds along the lines 
:Uv>r; ; 
, 
; . 
. . 
. 
, 
- 
* 
S u 8 g e s t e d by President Galusha would be developed and that the matter 
w°uld then be brought back to the Board for further consideration. 

1.193 
4/15/70 
-6-
Labor Relations Panel. 
President Hayes referred to proposed 
rules and regulations-that had been published in the Federal Register 
for comment by the Federal Reserve System Labor Relations Panel. 
The 
Reserve Banks had not received prior notice, and he believed that action 
should have been taken only after consultation. 
It was pointed out that the Labor Relations Panel had been 
established as an independent body and was not a function of the Board 
or the Reserve Banks. 
However, it was understood that President Hayes 
would submit a letter to the Board describing in more detail the problem 
that he believed to exist in the Panel's procedures. 
Presidents Hayes, Eastburn, and Francis and members of the 
Board's staff not concerned with the remaining items on the agenda 
then withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
M r . Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Messrs. Marinaccio and Via of the Legal Division 
Bank of Minneapolis. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
had requested that the Board issue a temporary cease and desist order 
relating to certain practices reportedly engaged in by Bank of Minne-
aPolis and Trust Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota, that were believed 
to constitute unsafe and unsound banking practices. 

J194 
4/15/70 
-7-
At the request of Governor Robertson, Mr. Solomon described 
the practices that were of concern, following which Mr. O'Connell out-
lined the procedures that would be necessary to establish a basis 
for issuance of a cease and desist order. 
President Galusha provided additional information on the type 
of activities involved and commented on the degree of urgency with 
which the Reserve Bank viewed the matter. 
The staff was then requested to draw up a notice of charges 
looking toward issuance of a temporary cease and desist order, with 
the understanding that the matter would be considered by the Board 
within the next few days. 
Governor Robertson and President Galusha withdrew from the 
meeting at this point and the following entered: 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Messrs. Hersey and Norwood, Advisers, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions. 
Bank holding company matter. 
Southern California First National 
Corporation, the one-bank holding company of Southern California First 
National Bank, San Diego, California, had applied to the Comptroller 
of the Currency for permission to acquire a 40 per cent equity position 
in a Swiss bank, Heusser & Cie., through a wholly-owned subsidiary to 

1191 
4/15/70 
-8-
be chartered domestically but located in Switzerland. The Comptroller 
had requested the Board's views. 
In a memorandum dated April 14, 1970, Governor Brimmer discussed 
the proposal in terms of the Board's statutory responsibility with 
respect to overseas operations of American banks, and in the light of 
pending one-bank holding company legislation. 
He recommended advising 
the Comptroller that the Board had serious reservations as to the 
legality of the proposal and urging that the Comptroller not act on 
the application until the matter had been discussed by representatives 
of his Office and the Board. A draft letter along those lines had been 
distributed. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the Board's reservations be 
couched in terms of the appropriateness of the proposal, rather than 
its legality, and that a positive suggestion be made as to a more 
aPpropriate procedure that could be followed to accomplish the proposed 
investment. 
There was agreement with Governor Mitchell's suggestions, and 
U nanimous approval was given to a letter to the Comptroller of the 
Currency in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
Report on draft bill. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to the Bureau of the Budget regarding a Treasury draft bill "To authorize 
further adjustments in the amount of silver certificates outstanding, and 
for other purposes." 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 

i.196 
4/15/70 
-9-
Presidential Commission. 
In preparation for a meeting this 
afternoon with Mr. Reed 0. Hunt, whose appointment as Chairman of the 
proposed Presidential Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation 
was expected to be announced shortly by the President, Chairman Burns 
had asked for views as to issues that might be suggested for study by 
the Commission. 
. • 
t 
• . .; • 
Memoranda from the Office of the Secretary had been furnished 
to the Board submitting background information and preliminary staff 
views on key iss 
ues that might be considered. 
Some members of the 
Board had also set forth their views in informal memoranda to Chairman 
Burns. 
•->' » 
. 
. 
• 
.
.
.
.
. 
. 
.
.
.
. 
i 
Members of the staff elaborated at today's meeting on their 
y • *
 1 v '-J-J • * w 
i .. ,{' ! , 
thinking with regard to the broad categories of problems on which the 
study might appropriately focus. 
At the request of Chairman Burns, 
comments were also made with regard to specific issues considered to 
be deserving of attention. 
Members of the Board then summarized issues they considered 
significant and presented suggestions as to how the study by the Commis-
sion might be generally structured. 
The fact that studies by System 
research groups were under way in certain areas was not believed to 
constitute a reason why parallel studies should not necessarily be 
conducted by the Commission. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

J137 
Item No. 1 
4/15/70 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
o r THC 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
S H E R M A N 
J . 
M A I 5 C L 
HKMICn or THC IOAMQ 
January 26, 1970 
• Dear Hugh 
Here is a brief statement of some of the 
factors which I think ought to be considered when 
the System makes a decision with respect to the 
portfolio policy it ought to follow for the annuity 
accumulation account. 
As you see, I think that the bulk of the 
s ' 
committee's work should be concerned with whether 
or not it would pay to purchase annuities for exist-
ing retirees and for those for whom annuities would 
i be required in the future. 
Enclosure 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., Chairman, 
Board of Trustees of the Retirement System 
of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Cordially 
Sherman J. Maisel 
cc: Dr. McGill 
Mr. Sherman 
Mr. Bergin 

J 1:98-
s 
• , 
January 26, 1970 
INVESTMENT POLICIES 
One of the approaches of the committee examining possible in-
vestment procedures for the retirement system should be to analyze this 
question as one of portfolio choices and decisions by the Federal Reserve 
-System—a uni-que public body with unique powers and responsibilities. 
I would differentiate between the present retirement reserve 
account and the pension accumulation account. 
Funds are transferred to the retirement reserve account when 
the System incurs a specific obligation to pay a given benefit. I see 
no great advantage to the System in running an insurance business. There 
may well be cost-benefits that make it worthwhile remaining in this busi-
ness, but they ought to be carefully explored. 
The problem of the pension accumulation fund is completely 
different. While there may be certain problems with our current trustee 
agreement, conceptually this fund is simply a segregation of one part of 
the System's assets to make it possible to vest certain obligations, which 
the System has incurred, if it were decided to end the retirement system. 
Any earnings on this fund are like any other earnings on System assets 
available to be used to meet the System's current expenses. At most 
times these earnings are earmarked for retirement purposes and the Banks 
add additional funds, but it seems clear that at the moment more assets 
and earnings are available than are required. 

1.199 . . 
I 
-2-
i 
j 
There are no exact relationships between' the amount and income 
j 
of this fund and the System's obligations to purchase each year certain 
benefits for retiring employees or their beneficiaries. Crude actuarial 
! 
estimates are made of future costs of existing promises. However, such 
future costs are altered periodically by the System. Amounts required 
in the future if benefits remain unchanged are also calculated. The 
amount the System might have to pay in the future from current income, 
given certain arbitrary assumptions of salaries, earnings on assets, 
hiring and firing procedures, is also calculated. 
The basic fact, however, is that future payments which will 
change from current estimates must come from the System's future income 
including the income from any segregated assets. A simple model may be 
used to emphasize the fact that basically the Banks are responsible both 
to determine how large non-accrued benefits will be in the future and 
also to make necessary payments either at the time future liabilities 
accrue or at the time actual payments are required. 
Assume that instead of channeling additional segregated funds 
into the pension accumulation account for vesting purposes the Banks sim-
ply freeze the amount of the existing fund and accept all income from it. 
At the same time, each year they would purchase from current income all 
benefits arising during the year such as annuities at retirement, death, 
or added benefits agreed to for past service. I would guess that except 
for a difference in how sums were entered in the accounting records, not 
much difference from present procedure would be noted in net charges to 

bank income. In addition the amounts in the pension accumulation fund 
Would still remain much closer to the sum required to vest all accrued 
service than is true for the great majority of pension funds. 
Such a model is not necessary for the examination of a logical 
portfolio policy. A portfolio policy should, however, start from the 
uniqueness of the Federal Reserve System. It was created to administer 
certain of the sovereign powers of the Government with respect to the 
Issuance of currency; certain fiscal activities; and the control of bank 
assets and liabilities through the creation and requirement of bank re-
serves. The System holds a vast percentage of its assets in government 
issues. It shares with the Treasury responsibility for the marketing of 
and markets for these securities. It shifts its assets primarily to 
achieve public policy objectives. In attempting to achieve these national 
.goals in the field of money, credit, and government bonds, it determines 
a particular portfolio policy irrespective of the impact of such invest-
ment activities on the System's income. Its entire income arises from 
the governmental powers delegated to it and as a result the Treasury is 
the residual claimant for all Federal Reserve earnings. 
Given this background, one can ask whether it makes much sense 
for the System to attempt to earn a higher yield on a small part of its 
total assets. Total System assets amount to over $84 billion, whereas 
the assets it has earmarked for pension accumulation amount to only $200 
million. Even if the System were to follow a yield maximizing policy on 
this $200 million, the earnings received would not add anything to the 

vested benefits of potential retirees. They would simply add a little to 
over-all System earnings and thus to the residual income remaining after 
deduction of expenditures, including those needed to cover obligations 
under the retirement system. In effect, this would result in a somewhat 
larger amount of residual earnings transmitted to the Treasury. 
If a yield maximizing policy were adopted-for the small volume 
of earmarked assets, a logical next question would be, why not differenti-
ate some part of the large remaining System portfolio in order to obtain 
larger residual earnings for the Treasury on that part too? The basic 
question at issue in making such a decision would be, should the System 
be satisfied with a risk-free return on government issues, or should it 
be willing to take greater risks on at least some part of its portfolio 
as a means of augmenting earnings? 
If the decision were made to accept 
some greater risks, what then would be the logical limit to which such a 
policy should be pushed? 
Assume that an institution operates a portfolio with perfect 
knowledge. It recognizes that it can invest in a risk-free portfolio or 
can increase its returns by accepting payments for risks it is willing to 
take. With perfect knowledge, the difference in earnings should be ex-
actly proportional to the extra risks taken. 
In the current circumstances, the amount of risk the Federal 
Reserve can take given its $84 billion of assets is virtually unlimited. 
If it were to decide to increase its earnings by accepting additional 
risks, there is no obvious limit to the amount of risks it should take. 

ZMZ 
- 5 -
A logical portfolio policy would probably be to instruct its portfolio 
manager to make all investments with a maximum expected value irrespective 
of the variance of risks. Such a portfolio would consist only of issues 
with the largest risks since this would maximize the System's expected 
return. 
It can be argued that no one has perfect knowledge or that our 
legal structure or the action of the System cause basic imperfections in 
the capital markets. These enable a sharp money manager to increase his 
earnings beyond the equilibrium rates of the sum of the risk-free rate 
plus payment for risks. Such imperfections may exist. I am not convinced, 
however, that it is a proper role for the Federal Reserve to attempt to 
profit from such situations. Such a role seems to me to be in obvious 
conflict of interest with the System's basic duty of attempting to reduce 
such imperfections to zero. 
The System has never adopted a risk-taking portfolio management 
approach, and I believe for good reasons. The principle of profit maxi-
mizing is simply not consistent with the broader national objectives the 
Federal Reserve has in mind when it undertakes security operations. If 
this is the case for the bulk of the System portfolio, I see no special 
advantage in adopting a different approach for the small part of the port-
folio that is segregated for pension fund accumulation purposes. Retirees 
gain nothing from the added earnings on the earmarked assets, and there is 
always a danger that in taking a profit maximizing approach even on this 

1 2 Q 3 
-6-
small part of the portfolio, the System's purpose will be confused and, 
to that extent, the broader national goals of over-all System policy 
i 
partly compromised. 

izin 
Item No. 2 
4/15/70 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
I D E N T 
April 1 4 , 1970 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington", D . C. 
20551 
Gentlemen: 
This is a statement supporting a recommendation for change 
in the present pattern of investment of the reserves accumulated 
to meet the actuarial requirements of the System Pension Plan. 
It 
is an alternative to the recommendation that the Pension Plan 
reserves be invested only in U.S. government securities. 
I. This recommendation contains these elements: 
1. Contracting with a fund manager (or managers) 
in much the same legal framework as that of 
the Thrift Plan. Criteria of selection would 
be size and demonstrated competence. 
2. 
Separation of the Trustees (System personnel) 
from the management of the Fund. 
The decision-
making responsibility should be clearly and 
fully delegated to the manager. 
The Trustees 
would have the right to review annually the 
aggregate performance of the Fund, and to 
change managers. 
The broadly defined objec-
tive would be to stay in the midstream of 
pension fund performance and to maintain a 
high degree of administrative efficiency in 
the relationship with the System Pension Plan. 
As to the latter, we would be the judge; the 
former would best be judged by a panel of 
outside experts. 
(Dan McGill, University of 
Pennsylvania; James H. Lorie, University of 
Chicago; an industrial counterpart like 
Henry Porter, Financial Vice President of 
General Mills, are examples of men who might 
serve.) 
It obviously would require a 
diversified portfolio. 
o f 
M I N N E A P O L I S 
5 5 - 4 - 4 0 

f
 # >nr-
W
w
o 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
M I N N E A P O L I S 
Page 2 
3. 
Purchase of annuities for retirees on the 
date of retirement. 
This is pertinent only 
if the System were to confine its pension 
fund to U.S. governments, in which case it 
could be defended on the basis of costs. 
Dan McGill has estimated a saving of 8% in 
reserve utilization. 
If the reserves were invested in a diversi-
fied fund, there would be no saving to the 
System from the purchase of annuities^for 
retirees; in fact, it would cost more to 
administer the retirees' accounts ourselves, 
for we would lose both in investment per-
formance and administration. 
This is the 
opinion advanced in considerable candor 
by one of the companies approached by 
Dr. McGill for a bid on the annuities. 
It 
is confirmed by Dr. McGill and our actuary. 
II. 
This recommendation is based on these premises: 
1. 
That potential political criticism for 
System management of the pension fund, the 
beneficiaries of which are the employees 
of the System, is eliminated by separating 
the management of the fund from the broad 
fiduciary responsibilities of the Trustees. 
2. That the System has a responsibility to 
conduct its operations at as low a cost as 
is consistent with its public purposes. 
3. That a pension plan is an accepted operating 
cost, conceptually indistinguishable from 
any other labor cost in its justification. 
4. That there is no magic in determining the 
costs of a pension plan. 
Over time it is 
the total of the benefits paid plus 
administrative costs, less the investment 
return. 
5. That the patterns of investment and per-
formance of pension funds, like their 
benefit levels, generally are ascertainable. 

1191 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
M I N N E A P O L I S 
Page 3 
The twin objectives of the System are to 
'provide competitive benefit levels at cost 
levels consistent with our desire to operate 
--as efficiently as possible. 
Investment 
performance thus becomes relevant; if our 
investment performance is less than the 
average, either our benefits will lag or 
our costs will increase. 
Thrs last point requires elaboration. 
What difference is 
there between the cost of a pension fund invested only^in securi-
ties of the federal government and one invested in a diversified 
portfolio? 
Current practice for conservatively operated funds 
requires a 60/40 division--60% equities and 40% fixed income. 
Two^ 
of the best of the current references on American investment experi-
ence are "Managing Educational Endowments" (Ford Foundation), and 
the Merrill Lynch study by Fisher and Lorie ("Rates of Return on^ 
Investments in Common Stocks," Journal of Business, University of 
Chicago, January 1964). 
The research developed in these reports indicates a 9% 
compound rate of return on investment in common stocks listed ^on 
the NYSE from January 1926 to December 1960, with all dividends 
reinvested on a tax-exempt basis. 
During this same period, U.S 
governments and municipals averaged less than 4% and corporate 
bonds about 6%%. 
It is important to emphasize these are based 
on random selection; i.e., an "investor who selected at random 
with equal probabilities of selection—that is, exercised no 
judgment." 
We checked with a number of investment sources to deter-
mine whether the investment yields developed historically in these 
studies are still valid operating assumptions for long-term projec-
tions. 
We were assured they are. 
We then turned to our actuaries with this question: 
What 
would the difference in cost to the System be from an^investment 
policy for the Pension Plan reserves if (a) it were limited^to 
government securities yielding 4%, or (b) it were invested in a 
balanced fund; i.e., 60% in equities yielding 9%, and 40% in fixed 
income securities (governments and corporates) earning 6%? 
They first produced this table: 

1ZQ7 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
M I N N E A P O L I S 
Page 4 
Assumed rate 
of investment 
return 
Reserve at age 65 
to fund annual 
pension of $100.00 
Annual contribution 
over 30-year period 
to account reserves 
0% 
$ 1,421 
$ 4,737 
1 
1,305 
3,752 
2 
1,190 
2,933 
3 
1,101 
2,314 
3h 
1,059 
2,052 
4 
1,020 
1,819 
5 
945 
1,430 
6 
886 
1,121 
7 
832 
881 
8 
789. 
696 
9 
. 
755 
554 
From this, but taking into consideration our existing 
reserves, an assumed payroll of $145,000,000.00, and the continu-
ation of the present work force, they developed these conclusions 
At a 4% actual rate (our present assumed rate) the cost 
to the System will be $13,268,000.00. 
At a 3k% actual rate (our old assumed rate) the cost to 
the System would have been $17,618,000.00. 
At a 7h% actual rate (60/40 division, etc.) the Fund would 
be self-sustaining. 
This does not mean we would or should cease making contribu-
tions if we moved to a management system like the 60/40 which, it 
must be emphasized, is not novel or radical but in the mid-stream 
of pension plan operations. 
The assumed rate for actuarial pur-
poses, like all the other actuarial parameters, should be 

1.208 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
M I N N E A P O L I S 
Page 5 
consistently and conservatively stated. 
B u t R e v e l s or increases 
in reserve requirements caused by payroll changes and actuarial 
assumptions could be financed without proportionate increases 
in contributions. 
If none of these did occur, contributions 
would drop to zero for the cost of any pension plan is the 
total 
of the benefits paid plus administrative costs, less the invest-
ment return." 
Our own history bears this out. 
The whole issue of excess 
earnings was an example. 
Except for a very few y e a r s , the old 
Retirement System regularly earned more than the assumed rate 
Because of the unsettled question of ownership derived from the 
contributory nature of that plan, we never really came to grips 
with the investment issue and its effect on the level of Bank 
contributions and the administration of the benefit program. 
We 
are now freed of that incubus. 
We are strongly convinced that if the private-public mix^ 
of the Reserve Banks is to be m a i n t a i n e d - a n d we firmly believe it 
should--pension funds should be invested in a diversified group or 
securities at the discretion-of a professional 
i s 
manager. 
No one will deny that the basic purpose of the System is 
a public one. 
Yet the Reserve Banks traditionally have been some-
what removed from Government and somewhat oriented toward the 
private cornmunitv. 
This mix has served the System well. 
It has 
helped in the recruitment of outstanding directors and personnel. 
It has helped to focus attention of management, if not on Profits, 
on efficiency. 
We believe that this recommendation is in that 
spirit and will serve the System better not only internally, but 
externally in its relationships with the Congress and the public. 
Sincerely, 
H . D . Galusha, Jr. 
President 

Of cot'./. 
B O A R D O F D C D V E R N D R 5 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
Item No 
4/15/70 
OFFICE: OF T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 27, 1970. 
The Honorable William B. Camp, 
Comptroller of the Currency, 
Treasury Department, 
Washington, D.C. 
20220 
Dear Bill: 
A letter of March 17, 1.970, from your office asked for 
the Board's views on the application received by you from South-
ern California First National Corporation, the one-bank holding 
coi.;pa«y of Southern California First National Bank, San Diego, 
California, to acquire a 40 per cent equity position in a Swiss 
bank, Heusser & Cie., through the holding company's proposed 
wholly-owned subsidiary to be chartered domestically but located 
in Switzerland. 
From the copy of the holding company's letter of 
February 20, 1970, to you, enclosed with your letter to the 
Board, it appears that 60 per cent of the equity interest in the 
Swiss bank will continue to be owned by Swiss persons who will 
also continue to be its active management. 
It appears also that 
the intermediary corporation will conduct no business operations 
in this country of significance, but will be operated as a Swiss 
branch of the one-bank holding company and will conduct various 
financial operations for the national bank and for its own 
account. 
The letter from your office requesting the Board's 
views indicates particular interest in being advised of any 
reasons why the application should not be approved. 
The Board has serious reservations as to the appro-
priateness of the proposal in question. 
Through the years, the 
Congress has legislated specifically with respect to what 
activities national banks should be permitted to pursue abroad, 
either indirectly through Edge or Agreement corporations, or 
directly through branches or under the investment authority 

j A « I U 
The Honorable William B. Camp 
-2~ 
added to section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act in 1966. 
The 
responsibility for the administration of these provisions and 
restrictions, also applicable to State member banks, lias been 
centered by the Congress in the Board. 
The Board, therefore, urges that Southern California 
First National Corporation be advised that the appropriate pro-
cedure for accomplishing investment in Heusser 6c Cie., would be 
by suitable application by the national bank pursuant to paragraph 
Third of section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act and the Board
1 s 
Regulation M, or through an Edge or Agreement corporation established 
or operating under paragraph Second of section 25 of the Act or 
section 25(a) of the Act, respectively, and the Board's Regulation 
K. 
Rep 
resentatives of the Board will be glad to discuss the matter 
with you or your representatives at your convenience. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J . L. Robertson 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• 
F 
T H E 
Item No. 4 
4/15/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
B O A R D 
April 16, 1970 
Mr* C . William Fischer, for 
Assistant Director for Legislative 
Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D . C . 
20503 
This is in reply to your memorandum of April 6 S 1970, 
requesting the Board's views on the Treasury's proposed bill "To 
authorize further adjustments in the amount of silver certificates 
outstanding, and for other purposes." 
The proposed bill would amend 
section 1 of the Act of June 24, 1967 (31 U.S.C. 405a-2) by striking 
the dollar limitation on the amount of silver certificates, issued 
after June 3 0 , 1929., which may be reduced as outstanding on the 
books of the Treasury, and by adding Federal Reserve bank notes 
and National bank notes, issued after June 30, 1929, to the categories 
of currencies which may be so reduced. 
Such reductions would be 
made after determinations by the Secretary of the Treasury that the 
amount of the currency to be written off will .never be presented 
for redemption. 
The Board understands that the purpose of the proposal is 
to adjust the liability for currencies outstanding on the Treasury's 
books in order to reflect more accurately the true liability for 
outstanding currency no longer issued. The Board is in favor of the 
proposed legislation. 
Dear M r . Fischer 
Very truly yours 
Robert C . Holland 
Secretary. 
