MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 13, 1972 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, January 13, 1972. 
The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
M r . Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
M r . Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . O'Connell, General Counsel 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
s. ••>, it of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
i 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical 
t 
Assistants, Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff. 
Consent calendar. 
The Board discussed a draft order reflecting 
aPproval on December 15, 1971, of the application of Chemical New York 
Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of the -successor by 
merger to Eastern National Bank of Long Island, Smithtown, New York. 
The staff was requested to revise the order in the light of comments 
fiiade, for the Board's further consideration. 

65 
1/13/72 
-7-
The Board approved unanimously the application of Citizens 
Bancorp., Vineland, New Jersey, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of shares of Citizens State Bank, Vineland, New Jersey, and 
Continental Bank of New Jersey, Maple Shade, New Jersey, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Courier and armored car service. 
The Board had ordered a hearing 
to be held on January 19, 1972, before available members of the Board to 
consider whether armored car or courier services are closely related to 
banking within the meaning of section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act. 
The National Courier Association and the National Armored Car 
Association had requested reconsideration of the decision not to have a 
formal hearing. 
Although on December 16, 1971, the Board had expressed 
itself in favor of a formal hearing, it had been determined subsequently 
that the Civil Service Commission took a position against furnishing a 
hearing examiner when a formal hearing was not required. 
In the opinion 
of the Legal Division, a formal hearing was not required in the present 
instance. 
In a memorandum dated January 10, 1972, the Legal Division 
Recommended that the January 19 hearing be conducted, as announced, by 
available members of the Board; that the Board deny the request of the 
trade associations for reconsideration of the decision that a formal 

1/13/72 
-3-
hearing "on the record" would not be held; and that the Board deny the 
request of the trade associations for access to intra-agency memoranda 
considered by the Board in connection with the proposed rule making. 
Other recommendations dealt with procedures for the hearing. 
Discussion centered initially on the problem of obtaining a 
hearing examiner. 
Comments indicated a substantial body of opinion 
among members of the Board that a formal hearing would be preferable, 
and possible means of inducing the Civil Service Commission to furnish 
an examiner were mentioned. 
It was brought out that because of time 
Pressures and other considerations it was not feasible either for the 
Board to engage its own hearing examiner or to borrow one from some 
other agency. 
Some divergence of opinion within/the legal staff was disclosed. 
In support of holding an informal hearing before available members of 
the Board it was argued that that had been the kind of proceeding 
employed throughout 1971 with respect to amendments to Regulation Y, 
Bank Holding Companies, and additions to the list of activities desig-
nated as closely related to banking, and to grant a request for a 
formal hearing in the present instance would set a precedent for future 
requests that would be difficult to refuse. 
It was believed that if 
the demand for a formal hearing were taken to court, the court would 
uphold a decision by the Board not to grant a formal hearing. 

67 
1/13/72 
-7-
Another view within the Legal Division was that, although a 
hearing before available members of the Board had the advantage of 
avoiding questions of precedent, the public clamor raised by the 
affected industry in the present situation would cause such a hearing 
to place a great burden upon the Board. 
An examiner trained in legal 
input and motions could relieve the Board of that burden, appraise the 
merits of arguments, and arrive at a recommendation for the Board's 
consideration. 
This end might be largely accomplished by an alterna-
tive to a formal Administrative Procedure Act hearing, namely, 
designation by the Board of a hearing officer, a competent official 
from the staff of the Board or one of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
That 
type of proceeding also would avoid the question of precedent. 
Exploration of the significance of the question of setting a 
Precedent indicated some views that the Board would not thereafter be 
Precluded from granting only an informal Shearing and that in any sub-
sequent litigation a court would respect the right of the Board to 
choose the type of proceeding it considered warranted in particular 
circumstances (in the absence of a legal requirement). 
On the other 
hand, the staff brought out that courts might look not only at statutes 
governing a particular case but also at what treatment a regulatory 
agency had previously accorded other petitioners. 
The continuing discussion developed sharper focus on the alter-
native of designating a hearing officer from the staff of either the 

68 
1/13/72 
-7-
Board or a Federal Reserve Bank. 
It was brought out that a formal 
hearing on the record, involving lengthy procedures such as the right 
of cross-examination, rebuttals, briefs and counter-briefs, would 
probably take at least a week, whereas a proceeding before a hearing 
officer would be less time-consuming. 
Moreover, in the latter kind of 
presentation it would be possible for the Board at least in general to 
govern the frame of reference, which would be more difficult in a 
formal hearing. 
After further discussion Governor Brimmer proposed that a 
hearing officer be designated by the Board. This proposal was approved, 
with Governors Robertson and Daane dissenting because they still favored 
a formal hearing before a hearing examiner. 
It was understood that 
every effort would be made to select a qualified officer from the staff 
of one of the Federal Reserve Banks rather than from the Board's staff. 
It was also agreed that a postponement of the hearing from its scheduled 
date of January 19 would be necessary, and that the request for access 
to intra-agency memoranda would be denied. 
(Note: 
The hearing was rescheduled to commence February 10, 
1972. A copy of the order issued in this connection is attached as 
Item No. 2.) 
Bank Securities, Inc. 
On January 6, 1972, the Board discussed 
the application of Bank Securities, Inc., Alamogordo, New Mexico, 
to acquire shares of The First National Bank of Portales, Portales, 

7 
1/13/72 
-7-
New Mexico, on the basis of a memorandum of December 14, 1971, in which 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial. 
The staff 
was requested to explore further questions that were raised regarding the 
marketability of stock that would be paid to some shareholders (whereas 
others would be paid cash), and regarding management fees assessed by 
the holding company. Additional information developed by the staff was 
set out in a memorandum of January 12, on the basis of which the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation now recommended approval. 
It appeared that 
quoted prices of the applicant's shares would in fact represent essen-
tially a cash value equivalent to that being offered shareholders who 
would be paid in cash, and that year-end 1971 management fees charged 
by the applicant had declined from earlier assessments because a broader 
base had become available. 
The Division urged that if the application 
was approved the implementing document take cognizance of the problems 
arising from different offers to different groups of shareholders. 
Discussion developed agreement with the current staff recommenda-
tion, except on the part of Governor Robertson. 
Several members of the 
Board, however, conditioned their positions upon the terms in which an 
approval decision would be supported. 
Subject to that understanding, 
the application was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
It was 
understood that an order reflecting this decision would be drafted, and 
that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 

70 
1/13/72 
-7-
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Smith, Bernard, Molony, O'Connell, and Axilrod, and Mrs. Semia. 
Discount rates. 
On January 6, 1972, the Boards of Directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and St. Louis had estab-
lished, subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, 
rates of 4-1/4 and 4 per cent, respectively, rather than the present 
4-1/2 per cent, on advances and discounts for member banks under 
sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Both Reserve Banks 
had also proposed related changes in subsidiary rates. 
Comments by members of the Board indicated some support for a 
reduction of 1/4 of 1 per cent in the discount rate, but no support for 
a reduction of 1/2 of 1 per cent. 
Further discussion indicated no 
strong sentiment for a change at this time. 
It was understood that the 
Board would revert to the matter when time permitted more extended 
consideration. 
The establishment without change by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of New York, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco 
on January 6 and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on January 10, 
1972, of the rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
Would be sent to those Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
. , - - - - - - - - - 
' 
Secretary 
U 

Item N o . 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/13/72 
CITIZENS BANCORP. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Citizens Bancorp., Vineland, New Jersey, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares of Citizens State 
Bank, Vineland, New Jersey, ("Citizens Bank"), and 100 per cent of 
fche voting shares of Continental Bank of New Jersey, Maple Shade, 
Jersey ("Continental Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant was recently formed for the purpose of acquiring 
the two proposed subsidiary banks. Upon acquisition of Citizens Bank 
(deposits of $18.3 million) and Continental Bank (deposits of $8.6 
m i U i o n ) , Applicant would become the smallest holding company in the 
State, controlling less than .2 per cent of commercial bank deposits 
i t l the State. 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, unless otherwise 
n°ted, and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
through December 31, 1971.) 

72 
- 2 -
Citizens Bank, located in Vineland, is the seventh largest 
o f thirteen banks in the Vineland-Millville-Bridgeton banking market, 
c°ntrolHng 5 per cent of deposits in that market. 
Continental Bank is located in Maple Shade which is 40 miles 
n°rth of Vineland and is in the Camden banking market. 
Continental 
Bank, with less than 1 per cent of market deposits, is the 12th largest 
o f fifteen banks there. 
It appears that Citizens Bank and Continental Bank are owned by 
stockholders that control the Citizens National Bank of South Jersey, 
Bridgeton, New Jersey"^ (deposits of $10 million), which is located in 
^ e same market as Citizens Bank. However, it does not appear that 
c°nsummation of this proposal would significantly increase deposit 
Cot*centration or have adverse competitive effects in the Vineland-
-Bridgeton banking market even if Citizens National Bank is 
c°nsidered as part of this proposal. On the facts presented, consummation 
o f the proposal herein would not have an adverse effect on existing 
°
r Potential competition in any relevant area nor would any competing 
kank be adversely effected. 
Applicant's financial condition and future prospects are 
d ePendent on those of its proposed subsidiary banks. The financial 
managerial resources and future prospects of the banks are generally 
S a tisfactory and consistent with approval. It appears that the present 
^ 
The CitTzens NlTti onal Bank of South Jersey is the resulting bank 
a merger which will be consummated on January 14, 1972. 

73 
'••iyfv 3 * 
. 
- 
' 
- 3 -
banking needs of the communities to be served are already being met. 
However, Applicant proposes to provide a greater effective lending 
C aPability to the banks and form a data processing subsidiary, thereby 
Providing an alternative source for specialized banking services. There-
^°re, considerations relating to the convenience and needs lend 
some 
W eight toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
P
eriod is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
^
ank of Philadelphia pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,"" January 13, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
2/ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sheehan. 

74 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o < 
2 
1/13/72 
[12 CFR Part 225] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Hearings Regarding Courier and Armored Car Services 
On January 12, 1972, the Board of Governors announced 
Postponement of a scheduled January 19 hearing to consider whether 
^mored car and courier services are closely related to banking under 
the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. The hearing 
%'s; , v . - 
' 
has been rescheduled to commence at 10:00 a.m., Thursday, February 10, 
in Room 1202 of the Federal Reserve Building, Washington, D . C., 
before a hearing officer to be appointed by the Board. 
In addition to rescheduling the hearing, the Board acted 
uPon three motions by parties who have asked to appear at the hearing. 
Those motions and the Board's determinations with respect to them are 
a s follows: 
Separation of issues. On December 13, 1971, Wachovia 
Corporation and Wachovia Courier Corporation filed a "Motion to Pro-
vide Separate Consideration of Armored Car and Courier Services Pro-
Posed Amendment". The Board believes that separate consideration will 
facilitate a sharpening of the issues and avoid possible confusion 
tl*at might otherwise result from a joint consideration. Accordingly, 
e eParate but consecutive hearings will be held. The subject of 
Courier services will be considered beginning at 10:00 a.m. on 
*february 10; the subject of armored car services will be considered 
following completion of the consideration of courier services. 

if-
75 
- 2 -
Tvn, of hearing. On December 14, 1971, the National 
Courier Association and the National Armored Car Association filed 
a petition for reconsideration by the Board of its denial of a 
request that these hearings be conducted under §5 556 and 557 of 
Title 5, United States Code. 
(For the Board's order denying the 
original request, see 36 F.R. 23256.) On January 11, 1972, the 
Independent Bankers Association of America also requested the Board 
to conduct the hearing under §§ 556 and 557. 
The Board is authorized by § 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act to permit bank holding companies to engage in an acti-
vity that "the Board after due notice and opportunity for hearing 
has determined (by order or regulation) to be so closely related to 
banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident 
thereto." In determining whether a particular activity is a proper 
incident to banking or managing or controlling banks, the Board is 
required to consider whether performance of the activity by an affil-
iate of a holding company can reasonably be expected to produce bene-
fits to the public that outweigh possible adverse effects. 
In the subject hearings, the Board proposes to determine 
whether courier services and/or armored car services are closely 
related to banking, and, if so, whether the usual procedures of 
5 225.4(b)(1) and (2) of Regulation Y for entry by a holding company 
into activities on the list of activities specified in § 225.4(a) 
should apply to those services. The Board will not decide in 
these hearings whether any particular holding company may engage 
in courier or armored car services. 

In the Board's judgment, the regulatory actions under con-
sideration in the subject proceedings do 
not constitute an order 
t 
subject to the judicial review provisions of section 9 of the Bank 
Holding Company Act. Further, the Holding Company Act does not 
require a formal hearing on the record with respect to such regula-
tory actions; and no considerations or arguments have been presented 
to the Board that, in the Board's judgment, warrant a formal hearing 
°n the issues involved in the hearings, as a matter of Board discre-
tion. Accordingly, the motions for formal hearings are denied. 
Access to memoranda. The National Courier Association, 
the National Armored Car Association, and the Independent Bankers 
Association have also requested access to intra-agency memoranda 
Considered by the Board in deciding to announce its proposed rule-
making regarding courier and armored car services. 
Section 552 of Title 5 specifically exempts from public 
inspection "inter-agency or intra-agency memorandums or letters 
v*iich would not be available by law to a party other than an agency 
in litigation with the agency". The Board believes that the staff 
Memoranda involved would not be available to the Associations in the 
event of litigation. Moreover, the Board's knowledge and experience 
in economics, the payments mechanism, banking, and supervision of 
banks are reflected in the Board's proposal but are not reflected 
said staff memoranda, so that such memoranda cannot be considered 
• a 
_ 
to be the basis for the Board's announced proposal for rulemaking. 
In these circumstances, the Board believes that there is n< 
legal requirement compelling production and that petitioners' access 
to the staff memoranda would not contribute to their knowledge of 

relevant facts or to their understanding of the Board's rationale in 
this matter. Accordingly, the requests for access to them are denied. 
Other matters. Although the hearing will not be conducted 
under §§ 556 and 557 of Title 5, it will be a more formal type pro-
ceeding than if conducted as previously announced before available 
members of the Board. The hearing officer will have legal training and 
skills, He will be qualified to establish orderly procedures; limit 
Presentations in an appropriate manner; exclude irrelevant, immaterial, 
r epetitious, or cumulative material; distinquish between fact and 
opinion evidence; and accord appropriate weight to material presented. 
Accordingly, the Board has authorized the hearing officer 
to resolve all matters relating to the number and identity of parti-
cipants, time accorded to participants, the receipt of evidence, 
expert opinion, rebuttal, written and oral arguments and other pre-
mutations, and the desirability and use of a pre-hearing conference. 
The hearing officer will make recommendations to the Board, 
*ith supporting findings and reasons, on the basis of the subject 
hearings and material filed in the proceedings. However, the Board 
v
i H make the final determinations whether, end for what rensono, to 
adopt its proposal or any modification thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 12, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
" " ; 
- 
| 
• ISEAL} 
