MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
August 13, 1969 

2525 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Wednesday, August 13, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
I ,V ? 
i . V.. 
: i. '• y 
— • -••• 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
r 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 

252Q 
8/13/69 
-2-
Messrs. Doyle, Lynch, Noble, and Plotkin, and 
Mrs. Heller of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, Goodfellow, and Shuter 
of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Foreign Banking matter. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to its proposed acquisition of additional shares of 
Inversiones y Adelantos C.A., Caracas, Venzuela, and to its continued 
holding of shares of that holding company after the latter acquired 
shares of a credit card company and a travel agency in Caracas. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
First National City. Further consideration was given to the 
application of First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, for permission to acquire shares of the Nan Shan 
Life Insurance Company, Limited, Taipei, Taiwan. The broad question 
raised by this application was whether, as a matter of general principle, 
it was appropriate for U.S. banks, through Edge corporations, to engage 
in the insurance business abroad. 
In the judgment of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation such an activity did not fit generally into 
the concept of fostering the foreign commerce of the United States 
through permitting U.S. banks to achieve a more effective banking and 
financial organization abroad. 

8/13/69 
-3-
The more limited question raised by the application was whether 
the facts indicated that the insurance business in Taiwan was so usual 
to the business of banking in that market as to warrant an exception to 
the general rule. 
In a memorandum of August 11, 1969, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation presented additional information bearing upon questions 
raised by Board members on August 8, 1969, when the application was 
first discussed. The additional information suggested to the Division 
that if any insurance business was to be considered usual to the business 
of banking in Taiwan, it would be the casualty insurance business rather 
than the life insurance business. 
Discussion of the matter revealed that two members of the Board 
(Governors Robertson and Brimmer) felt quite clearly that the application 
should be denied, their view having been strengthened by the additional 
information now assembled. Three members (Chairman Martin and Governors 
Mitchell and Maisel) indicated that, while they had no strong view on 
the matter, they would be willing to join in a decision not to approve 
the application. 
The remaining member present (Governor Sherrill) favored 
approval of the application because he found no clear lines of distinction 
among the various industries in Taiwan, that is, commercial banking, the 
savings and loan business, life insurance, and casualty insurance. 
In 
addition, he noted that the local authorities were aware of the proposed 
acquisition of Nan Shan Life Insurance Company and apparently had expressed 
no objection. 

8/13/69 
-4-
The First National City application was then denied, Governor 
Sherrill dissenting. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
pursuant to the Board's action is attached as Item No. 2. 
Although the Board's discussion dealt mainly with the local 
situation in Taiwan and not to any significant extent with the broader 
question presented by the application, it appeared from the tone of the 
comments as well as from the decision reached in this particular case 
that a majority of the members, at least, concurred in the view of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation that it would be inadvisable as 
a general rule to permit U.S. banks, through their Edge corporations, 
to engage in the insurance business abroad. 
Depositors Corporation. The Board authorized issuance of an 
order and statement reflecting its decision on July 17, 1969, to deny 
the application of Depositors Corporation, Augusta, Maine, to acquire shares 
of The First National Bank of Houlton, Houlton, Maine. Copies of the 
documents are attached under Item No. 3. 
Marshall & Ilsley. The Board authorized issuance of an order and 
statement reflecting approval on August 1, 1969, of the application of 
Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire 
shares of Peoples State Bank, New Holstein, Wisconsin. Copies of the 
documents are attached under Item No. 4. 
Northeastern Bankshare Association. After discussion, the Board 
approved unanimously the application of Northeastern Bankshare Association, 

8/13/69 
-5-
Lewiston, Maine, to acquire shares of Westbrook Trust Company, Westbrook, 
Maine, with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting the 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Charter New York. After discussion, the Board approved unanimously 
the application of Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, to 
acquire the outstanding voting shares (except directors' qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger to Scarsdale National Bank and Trust 
Company, Scarsdale, New York, with the understanding that an order and 
statement reflecting the decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Barnett National. After discussion, the Board approved unanimously 
the application of Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, 
Florida, to acquire shares of The Tallahassee Bank North, Tallahassee, 
Florida, a proposed new bank, with the understanding that an order and 
statement reflecting the decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Amendments to Regulations G and U. The Board had been asked by 
several equity funding companies to amend its margin regulations to exempt 
working capital loans made to such companies by various lenders, including 
insurance companies and banks. 
The equity funding companies made loans to individual customers 
to finance the combined purchase of mutual fund shares and insurance, 
the loans being collateralized by the shares. They obtained funds needed 

8/13/69 
-6-
to make the loans by repledging customers' notes in groups (together with 
the shares). Margin requirements were applicable to the loans to the 
customers and the repledging of the shares was subject to a rule of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission that limited the amount of credit 
obtainable on repledging of customers' securities to the aggregate amount 
orginally extended to the customers. 
In a memorandum of August 8, 1969, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended, in the circumstances, that relief be afforded 
by adopting amendments to Regulation G, Securities Credit by Persons 
Other Than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers, and Regulation U, Credit by Banks 
for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks, that would 
permit exempt loans of the kind described to be made by lenders subject 
to those regulations. Since the amendments would be of a relaxing 
nature, since their adoption would not increase the amount of securities 
market credit available on the customers' securities in question, and 
since the amendments would have to become effective by September 1, 1969, 
for a reason set forth in the memorandum, if equity funding companies 
were to continue their business without interruption, it was recommended 
that the amendments be made effective immediately. 
After discussion, the proposed amendments were approved unanimously, 
effective immediately. Copies of the amendments, in Federal Register 
form, are attached under Item No. 5. 

32531 
8/13/69 
-7-
Emergency lending to nonmember banks. On July 17, 1969, the 
Board had discussed a memorandum of June 30, 1969, from Messrs. Farrell 
(Director, Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations) and Leavitt with 
respect to the proposed adoption by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia of a policy statement covering loans to nonmember banks 
under the authority of paragraph 13 of section 13 of the Federal Reserve 
Act and the application of that authority to cases where a nonmember 
bank needed funds to cover check clearings or to avoid capital impairment. 
It was the recommendation of Messrs. Farrell and Leavitt, for reasons 
brought out in their memorandum, that hereafter all applications for 
advances under paragraph 13 of section 13 be required to be submitted to 
the Board of Governors for consideration and approval. 
At the July 17 meeting, question was raised whether the 
recommendation would be affected by the proposals in a memorandum dated. 
July 3, 1969, from the Division of Research and Statistics with regard 
to emergency credit assistance to nonmember depositary-type institutions. 
A memorandum from Messrs. Ring and Leavitt dated August 1, 1969, 
noted that the Research Division's paper dealt with the problem of extending 
emergency credit to thrift institutions and nonmember banks during a period 
when interest rates were rising and deposits declining and that it 
contemplated reactivation, if necessary, of emergency lending procedures 
that were in effect during the summer of 1966. In contrast, the 
Philadelphia Bank's proposed policy statement dealt with requests from 

8/13/69 
-8-
nonmember banks for funds to cover check clearings or to avoid impairment 
of capital. Accordingly, the recommendation contained in the June 30 
memorandum was regarded as appropriate. 
Should the program contemplated 
by the Research Division's memorandum be adopted, it was felt that any 
confusion could be avoided by advising the Reserve Banks that the procedures 
so authorized superseded any other procedures with respect to loans to non-
member banks. 
Submitted with the Ring-Leavitt memorandum was a revised draft 
of letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
Should the letter 
be approved, it was recommended that the substance thereof be communicated 
to all of the Reserve Banks. 
Mr. Leavitt now stated that he and Mr. Ring would recommend amend-
ment of one part of the proposed letter to the Philadelphia Bank to clarify 
that if the Board approved an application for credit from a nonmember 
bank it would at the same time authorize the Reserve Bank concerned to 
make additional advances to the applicant bank, subject to the understanding 
that the Board would be kept informed of developments. 
Governor Mitchell, who had earlier expressed to the staff certain 
reservations, including reservations with regard to a procedure under 
which applications from nonmember banks would have to be submitted to the 
Board for consideration and approval, now indicated that upon further 
reflection he concurred in the staff recommendation. 
He concluded that 
there were not likely to be many such applications and that, all things 

OtT')/) 
N U U U 
8/13/69 
-9-
considered, it would be desirable for the Board to advise and participate. 
Other members agreed. One member (Governor Brimmer) suggested 
that the letter to the Philadelphia Bank be amended to include a 
stipulation that the Board, in considering an application from a nonmember 
bank, would expect to have not only the recommendation of the Reserve 
Bank but also information on how the applicant nonmember bank proposed to 
get out of the difficulty that had occasioned its application for credit. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia in the form attached as Item No. 6, 
with the understanding that the substance of the correspondence between 
the Board and the Bank would be made available to all Federal Reserve 
Banks. A copy of the letter sent to all of the Banks is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
In reply to an inquiry with regard to the apparent need at this 
time for action to authorize a general program of emergency credit 
assistance to nonmember depositary-type institutions of the kind outlined 
in the Research Division's memorandum of July 3, 1969, Mr. Partee said 
it was the staff's conclusion that no such program was needed as of the 
end of July, to which he added that the situation could of course change 
rather quickly. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff attendance. 
Culpeper construction program. 
In a memorandum dated August 8, 1969, 
Governor Sherrill discussed a request by the Federal Reserve Bank of 

8/13/69 
-10-
Richmorid that the Board of Governors approve a proposed expenditure by 
the Bank of $538,563.36 representing costs incurred and to be incurred 
in connection with certain changes in the plans for computer and 
communications facilities at the Communications and Records Center in 
Culpeper, Virginia. 
In August 1967 the Board had approved an expenditure 
of $470,000 in connection with those changes, and the Bank's Board of 
Directors had now unanimously authorized the remaining expenditure, 
which reflected a proposed total payment of $941,268 to the general 
contractor and a payment of $67,295.36 for architectural and engineering 
fees and related expenses arising out of the construction changes. 
After reviewing the history of the matter in some detail, 
Governor Sherrill recommended in his memorandum that the Board authorize 
at this time a Reserve Bank expenditure in the amount of $471,268, which 
was the difference between the amount of $470,000 previously authorized 
by the Board and $941,268, the last and final settlement offer made on 
behalf of the general contractor. He recommended that the Board defer its 
decision with respect to the balance of $67,295.36, the amount said to 
be due for architectural and engineering fees and related expenses, pending 
submission of a legal opinion from special counsel for the Reserve Bank 
as to whether any right of set-off or counter-claim should be filed 
against the Bank's architect. 
After discussion, Governor Sherrill's recommendations were 
accepted and the Board authorized a Reserve Bank expenditure at this 

cr ' ) !*-• 
8/13/69 
-11-
time in the amount of $471,268. A copy of the letter sent to the Richmond 
Bank pursuant to the Board's action is attached as Item No. 8. 
Proposed memorial. At Chairman Martin's request, the Board 
deferred consideration of a proposal that had been received relating 
to the establishment of a memorial to the late Senator Robert Owen of 
Oklahoma. 
Discount window administration. With a memorandum of August 8, 
1969, Mr. Holland had submitted a memorandum of the same date from the 
Office of the Secretary summarizing a telephone conference with Federal 
Reserve Bank discount officers on August 6, 1969. During the conference, 
particular attention had been given to the need to guard against undue 
borrowing stimulated by the spread between the discount rate and interest 
rates on alternative market sources of borrowed funds and also to the 
problem involved if banks borrowed from the Reserve Banks and sold 
Federal funds net in the same reserve week. The Board's staff had concluded 
that the comments of the discount officers, as summarized in the 
memorandum from the Office of the Secretary, reflected a generally 
adequate administrative posture. 
/ 
Following comments by Mr. Holland, the report was accepted 
without objection. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
C 2 
Secretary 

B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
• F THE 
8/13/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
AUG 1 3 1969 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of May 20, and June 5, 1969, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") 
to purchase and hold approximately 1,500 additional shares of 
Inversiones y Adelantos C.A. ("INADECA"), Caracas, Venezuela, at 
a cost of approximately $330,000. 
In this connection, approval is 
also granted for the purchase and holding of shares of INADECA by 
FNCOIC in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in the 
provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board also grants consent for your Corporation to 
continue to hold the shares of INADECA after INADECA purchases up 
to 100 per cent of the shares of a Venezuelan Credit Card Company 
("VCC") to be formed in Caracas, Venezuela, at a cost of approx-
imately $220,000 and after INADECA purchases up to 50 per cent of 
the shares of Agencia Candes ("AC"), a travel agency in Caracas, 
Venezuela, at a cost of approximately $110,000, provided all such 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the continued holding of shares of 
INADECA by FNCOIC after INADECA acquires the shares of VCC is granted 
subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That INADECA shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of VCC if VCC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if VCC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Venezuela or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to INADECA; 

r>cr *vy 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities o* VCC as it may require from time to time; 
and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by VCC be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if VCC were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by VCC in Venezuela in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of VCC. 
The Board's consent to the continued holding of shares of 
INADECA by FNCOIC after INADECA acquires the shares of AC is granted 
subject to the condition that x\C shall limit its operations to those 
of a travel agency in Venezuela and shall acquire no shares of stock. 
The Board has noted that as of June 30, 1969, the foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, First National City Bank, 
International Banking Corporation, and First National City Bank 
(International) , exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. 
The foregoing consent 
for FNCOIC to purchase additional shares of INADECA is given with 
the understanding that those foreign loans and investments will be 
reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with the guidelines; 
that the investment now being approved will be made within those 
guidelines; and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) EILztcth L. Ca.-micftagl 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
• F T H E 
8/13/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
• TFI C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
' f 
AUG 13 1969 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
The Board has carefully considered the request contained 
in your letter of April 18, 1969, for permission for your Corpora-
tion to purchase and hold up to 82.5 per cent of the outstanding 
shares of Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Limited, Taipei, Taiwan. 
It: has also reviewed the additional material furnished in support 
of that request in subsequent correspondence. 
The Board is not prepared to approve, other than in ex-
ceptional circumstances, acquisitions by Edge Corporations of con-
trolling interests of companies engaged generally in the insurance 
business. 
Such acquisitions would involve a Corporation in the 
operation and management of companies whose activities are not 
limited to those normally construed as the business of banking or 
financing. 
From the facts presented, it does not appear that the 
present or contemplated insurance activities of Nan Shan Life 
Insurance Company, Limited, are so closely related to banking or 
financing operations as to be considered incident thereto. 
Nor 
in the Board's judgment does it appear that the provision of life 
insurance facilities through the ownership and management of an 
insurance company is so usual to the business of banking in Taiwan 
as to warrant an exception to the position outlined in the preceding 
paragraph. 
In these circumstances, the Board does not believe that 
it should grant its consent to your request, which is accordingly 
denied. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. K<?n;on 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2539 
Item No. 3 
8/13/69 
UNITED StATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
DEPOSITORS CORPORATION, 
1 
Augusta, Maine, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
1 
51 per cent of the voting shares of 
1 
The First National Bank of Houlton, 
1 
Houlton, Maine. 
1 
- - - - - - 
- - - 1 
ORDER DISAPPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Depositors 
Corporation, Augusta, Maine, a registered bank holding company, for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least §1 per cent 
of the voting shares of The First National Bank of Houlton, Houlton, 
Maine. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and re-
quested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application waa published in the 
.... 
. 
Fed^r^l Register on May 6, 1969 (34 Federal Register 7340), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
With respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
comments and views has expired and all those received have been con-
sidered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
Dated at Washington, D. C,, this 13th day of August 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
.i 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrlll. 
Absent and not voting; Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L, Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

o cr /i vs 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY DEPOSITORS CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF HOULTON 
STATEMENT 
Depositors Corporation, Augusta, Maine ("Applicant"), a 
registered bank holding company, ha3 applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of at 
least 51 per cent of the voting shares of The First National Bank of 
Houlton, Houlton, Maine ("Houlton Bank"). Applicant presently con-
trols four banks which hold deposits of $165 million.^ 
Houlton Bank 
has total deposits of $15.8 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation 
thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of December 31, 1968, 
adjusted to reflect holding company acquisitions approved by the Board 
to date. Two of the banks treated herein as subsidiaries of Applicant 
are banks which Applicant has received Board approval to acquire, but 
has not yet acquired. 

a* .J1 
•2-
Statutory considerations, - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in the State of Maine control about 77 per cent of 
the deposits held by all commercial banks in the State. Applicant, the 
largest banking organization and the largest of four bank holding com-
panies in the State, accounts for 15.2 per cent of such deposits. Acqui-
sition of Houlton Bank would increase Applicant's share of such deposits 
to 16.7 per cent, and the 10 largest banking organizations in Maine would 
then control over 78 per cent of the deposits held by all banks located 
in the State. 

2543 
-3-
Applicant's subsidiaries serve all or portions of 11 of 
Maine's 16 counties. Its largest subsidiary, Depositors Trust Company, 
is also the largest commercial bank in the State--headquartered in 
Augusta, the State capital, it has 31 offices located throughout central 
Maine, and has deposits of $146 million. Applicant's three other sub-
sidiary banks operate a total of six offices and hold $19.2 million in 
deposits. 
Houlton Bank, which has two offices in Houlton (population 
about 9,000), is more than twice as large as the only other bank in 
Houlton, and is the second largest of seven banks with offices in 
Aroostook County (population 95,000). In the entire State of Maine, 
which has • few large banks, Houlton Bank is the fifteenth largest bank; 
in that area north of Portland in which Applicant's activities are con-
centrated, it is the twelfth largest bank. 
Applicant received Board approval in December 1968 (1969 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 57) to acquire voting shares of First National Bank of 
Fort Fairfield ("Fort Fairfield Bank"), which is also located in Aroostook 
County. Acquisition of Houlton Bank would therefore result in Applicant's 
ownership of two of the seven banks operating in the county, and in it3 
control of 18.7 per cent of the deposits held by banks in that area. 
Two banking organizations, Applicant and Northern National Bank of 
Presque Isle ($53 million deposits), an independent bank which is by far 
the largest organization in terms of area deposits, would control almost 
75 per cent of the deposits held by all banks in the county. 

2544 
-4-
The acquisition of Fort Fairfield Bank by Applicant has not 
yet been consummated. For that reason, the competitive capability of 
that bank as a subsidiary of Applicant is not measured by its deposits 
$4.8 million, nor is its branching potential reflected by its one 
existing office and one approved branch in the county. The likelihood 
is that, as noted by the Board in its decision on the application in-
volving Fort Fairfield Bank, the bank will be a stronger competitor as 
a subsidiary of the largest banking organization in the State than it 
has been as an independent bank, and the same is true with respect to 
Houlton Bank. It is probable, therefore, that the high degree of county 
concentration which would immediately exist upon consummation of the 
Present proposal would increase still further in the future. 
Under Maine law, a bank may establish branches in the county 
In which it is located, in contiguous counties, and, outside those areas, 
in any town that has no banking office. The nearest office of Fort 
Fairfield Bank is about 42 miles from Houlton Bank and the two banks 
are not presently significant competitors. However, since both banks 
are located in Aroostook County, their legal branching areas are iden-
tical, and ownership of both banks by Applicant would therefore result 
in the foreclosure of potential competition between them. This fore-
closure i3 of particular significance in a stable or declining economy 
8uch as exists in Aroostook County. Since such an area is less likely 
to attract new entry than is an area with a more dynamic economy, the 
effect of foreclosing such competition is less likely to be ameliorated 
through competition arising from a source outside the area. 

2545 
-5-
In addition to the present application and to its ownership 
of Fort Fairfield Bank, Applicant has filed an application to acquire 
The Katahdin Trust Company ($4.6 million deposits), which is head-
quartered in Patten in Penobscot County, a county contiguous to Aroostook 
County. Katahdin Trust operates its only branch in Island Falls, in 
Aroostook County, about 30 miles southwest of Houlton and on the fringe 
of the area immediately served by Houlton Bank. Approval of both the 
present application and that one would result in Applicant's control 
of three of the seven banks which operate offices in Aroostook County. 
Without implying a determination on the merits of the application re-
lating to Katahdin Trust, processing of which has been suspended at 
Applicant's request pending a determination with respect to the present 
matter, it seems clear that any anticompetitive consequences of that 
proposal would be less significant than those involved in the present 
case. The filing of that application therefore further evidences the 
fact that there are alternative methods of entry by Applicant into the 
Houlton area which are less inimical to the preservation of future com-
petition and the prevention of excessive concentration than the present 
proposal. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a 
monopoly; neither does it appear that it would be in furtherance of any 
combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business of banking 
in any area. As implied by the foregoing discussion, however, Applicant's 
proposal would have significant anticompetitive effects. The acquisition 

2546 
-6-
of one of the larger independent banks in Maine by the dominant banking 
organization in the State makes more difficult and less likely the 
development of competing organizations of a size comparable to that of 
Applicant. That consideration is perhaps not of compelling significance 
where the bank involved is not large in absolute terms and is substan-
tially smaller than another bank in its county, if its acquisition would 
Permit an applicant to serve an area which it could not otherwise serve. 
**ut it is of significance where, as here, the bank to be acquired is one 
o f the larger of a limited number of banks so located as to have the 
ability to provide competition to one of the subsidiaries of that appli-
cant, since the possible alternative proposals foreclosed by the acqui-
sition could lead to direct competition with such other subsidiary, as 
well as with other banks in the area. Although the acquisition here pro-
posed would likely improve the ability of Houlton Bank to compete with 
the much larger Northern National Bank of Presque Isle, there are other 
Possible methods of accomplishing that result which would not foreclose 
future competition with any banking institution already in the Aroostook 
County area, but which could, on the contrary, increase such competition. 
Similarly, if it be assumed that Applicant requires a broader base of 
operations in Aroostook County in order to effectively compete throughout 
that area, there are other alternatives available to it which do not 
involve anticompetitive effects as serious as the present proposal. 
Financial and managerial resoucess and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is satis-
factory, and the prospects of each appear favorable. Management of 

2547 
-7-
Applicant and its subsidiary banks is regarded as experienced and 
competent. 
Houlton Bank is in satisfactory financial condition, with 
a good earnings record. Policy decisions of the bank are dominated 
by its President, who is past the usual retirement age. However, mid-
dle management of the bank is experienced and appears competent, and 
there do not appear to be any problems of management succession which 
cannot be solved by the bank without assistance. Prospects of Houlton 
Bank are regarded as favorable. 
Considerations under the banking factors are consistent with, 
but lend no significant weight toward, approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the cocr.munities Involved. - Consummation 
of Applicant's proposal would not affect the convenience or needs of cus-
tomers of Applicant's subsidiaries located outside the Houlton and Aroostook 
County areas. 
Applicant states that it9 acquisition of Houlton Bank will 
afford the latter greater lending power through participation of loans 
with other subsidiaries, and will result in improvements in Houlton Bank's 
trust account administration, internal audit procedures, and data pro-
cessing services. There appears to be only limited demand in the area 
for the new and improved services which would result. In addition, such 
services are available presently from the larger bank in Aroostook County, 
and could be made available in the area by Applicant without consummation 
of the present proposal. Therefore, although the convenience of customers 

-8-
2548 
of Houlton Bank desiring such services would to some extent be served, 
this consideration provides only limited weight in favor of approval of 
the application. 
Summary and conclusion, - Consummation of Applicant's proposal 
would have significant anticompetitive effects, which, the Board finds, 
are not outweighed by any other considerations presented in the record. 
On the basis of all relevant facts contained in the record, 
and in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, 
it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would not be 
in the public interest and that the application should be denied. 
August 13, 1969, 

Item No. 
8/13/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
* 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION, 
1 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
1 
or more of the voting shares of Peoples 
1 
State Bank, New Holstein, Wisconsin. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Peoples 
State Bank, New Holstein, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Wisconsin 
Commissioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner offered no objection to approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 8, 1969 (34 Federal Register 7474), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration, Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
time shall be extended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th day of August 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice-Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2551 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
PEOPLES STATE BANK, NEW HOLSTEIN, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Peoples 
State Bank, New Holstein, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
Applicant controls 6 banks in the Milwaukee area, with 
1/ 
aggregate total deposits of approximately $548 million. 
Bank, 
operating the only banking office in the City of New Holstein, which 
is 70 miles from Milwaukee and is located in the southeastern corner 
of Calumet County, Wisconsin, has total deposits of less than $11 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of December 31, 1968, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and have been adjusted to reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions for which Board approvals 
have been issued to date. 

2552 
-2-
application was given to the Wisconsin Commissioner of Banking, and 
his views and recommendation were requested. The Commissioner offered 
no objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. 
In each case the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 
10 largest banking organizations in Wisconsin, which include 8 of 
the 11 Wisconsin-based bank holding companies, control approximately 
$3.A billion of total bank deposits in the State or almost 40 per cent 
of such deposits. The three largest, all holding companies, control 
about 30 per cent. The largest controls almost 17 per cent. Applicant, 

the third largest, controls 6.5 per cent. After acquisition of Bank, 
Applicant would control an additional .1 per cent of total bank deposits 
in the State. Thus, acquisition of Bank would have only a negligible 
effect on Applicant's share of control. 
Bank is the largest of nine banks located in Calumet County 
and holds 22.7 per cent of county deposits. One of the banks in the 
county is now affiliated with a holding company (other than Applicant). 
Bank's relevant market area is shown as primarily the City of New 
Holstein and the Town of New Holstein (with a combined estimated pop-
ulation of 5,000), but as including also the cities of Kiel and 
Chilton and their surrounding areas, including a small portion of 
Manitowoc County to the east of New Holstein. Bank is represented as 
competing with four other banks in its service area (containing about 
11,000 people), and with three other banks located, respectively, in 
Manitowoc, Sheboygan, and Fond du Lac counties, in communities that 
are located outside Bank's designated service area. Bank controls 
23.6 per cent of the total deposits of the eight competing banks. The 
largest of Bank's competitors (on the basis of deposits) controls 
22.5 per cent of such deposits. 
Based upon deposit and loan growth 
during the past five years, Bank appears to lack aggressiveness in 
serving the community. 
The data presented reflect that Applicant's acquisition of 
Bank would not have a substantially adverse impact upon the degree 
of concentration of banking resources in the State, nor in any of 

the relevant service areas. On the record before the Board, it is 
concluded that the proposed affiliation would not result in a 
monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
relevant area. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of 
Applicant's proposal on existing or potential competition, the 
Board finds that these considerations present no bar to approval of 
fche application. Applicant states that no service area of any of 
Applicant's subsidiaries overlaps Bank's service area, all offices 
Applicant's subsidiaries are at least 70 miles from Bank, and that 
I 
there is no competition between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries. 
No banking alternative in the service area would be eliminated by 
consummation of the proposed acquisition. The development of future 
competition between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries is con-
sidered to be unlikely (even in the absence of the affiliation proposed 
he rein) in view of the distances and geographical barriers involved, 
branching restrictions applicable in Wisconsin, and the number of 
banks in the intervening areas. Also, it appears unlikely that con-
summation of the proposed affiliation will have any undue adverse 
effect on any of the seven banks regarded as Bank's competitors, each 
°f which has experienced, during the last five years, a higher rate 
°f loan and deposit growth than has Bank. 

The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed trans-
action would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a 
monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in any relevant 
section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiaries is 
generally satisfactory; and management is considered competent. 
Future prospects for the group appear favorable. 
Bank's management and financial condition are judged to be 
fair. The chief executive officer, whose family interests own control 
of the Bank, is 76 years old. 
It appears that Bank and the community 
it serves would benefit from more aggressive supervision and credit 
policies. 
Improvement in these areas, as well as suitable management 
succession, could be provided by Applicant if the transaction herein 
is consummated. 
Future prospects of the Bank would also be enhanced 
by affiliation with Applicant. 
The Board concludes that considera-
tions under the banking factors are consistent with and lend some 
weight towards approval. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - The City 
of New Holstein and the surrounding area have developed, in recent 
years, from a primarily farm economy to one that is commercially as 
well as agriculturally oriented. The growth in manufacturing and 
retail firms and the construction of new housing subdivisions have 
contributed to the economic development of the area. 
These 

-6-
2556 
considerations and, in addition, favorable transportation and recre>-
ational facilities enhance the area's prospects for continued growth. 
Applicant proposes to effect more aggressive credit policies for Bank 
and a program of loan participations with other banks in Applicant's 
system; also to make data processing services and trust facilities 
available to Bank's customers; and to provide expanded computer services 
for Bank. Applicant proposes also to provide Bank with a farm loan 
officer and various types of specialty financing that have not been 
available at Bank; and to furnish trained personnel as needed. 
It 
appears that Applicant can and will assist Bank to serve the area more 
fully. The local availability of improved and expanded services as 
proposed would be beneficial to the area as well as to Bank. 
Considera-
tions relating to the convenience and needs of the community served 
by Bank provide weight in favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
August 13, 1969. 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. G] 
PART 207 - SECURITIES CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN 
BANKS, BROKERS, OR DEALERS 
1. Effective immediately § 207.4(f) is amended to read as follows 
§ 207.4 Miscellaneous provisions. 
"k 1c * 
(f) Combined purchase of mutual funds and insurance. 
(1) An 
extension of purpose credit provided for in a plan, program, or invest-
ment contract that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77) and provides for the 
acquisiti on both of a security issued by an investment company described 
in § 207.2(d)(5) and of an insurance policy or contract shall be subject 
to all the provisions of this part, except that, where the credit is 
secured by the security and does not exceed the premium on such policy (plus 
any applicable interest), the maximum loan value of such security shall be 
40 per cent of its current market value, as determined by any reasonable 
method. 
(2) Sections 207.1(c), (d), (f), ( 3), (h), (i), and (j) of 
this part shall not apply to any credit extended to a person registered 
Pursuant to § 207.1(a) who extends credit pursuant to subparagraph (1) 
\ 
°f this paragraph, Provided, That: 
(i) the credit extended pursuant to this subparagraph is secured 
by securities that are issued by an investment company described in 
o t r r r ^ 
Item No.,5 
8/13/69 

§ 207.2(d)(5), and are carried for the account of one or more customers 
under a plan, program, or investment contract described in subparagraph (1) 
of this paragraph (and the person extending such credit receives written 
notice from the recipient of the credit to this effect); and 
(ii) the provisions of such plan, program, or investment contract 
conform to the provisions of Rule 15c2-l of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission concerning hypothecation of customers' securities (17 CFR 240.15c2-l) 
* 
* 
* 
2a» 
Section 207.4(f) has been emended to add a new subparagraph 
(2) to permit a perscn to extend exempt credit, in connection with the whole-
sale financing of equity funding plans or programs, to persons registered 
pursuant to § 207.1(a) who extend credit in accordance with § 207.4(f)(1). 
To qualify for the exemption the credit must be secured by customers' securi-
ties which are issued by an investment company described in § 207.2(d)(5), 
i.e., certain mutual fund shares, pledged in conformity with the provisions 
of a rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding hypothecation 
of customers' securities, and accompanied by a statement received by the per-
son extending the credit that such securities are carried for the account of 
one or more customers under an equity funding plan, program, or investment 
contract. . 

2 5 1 5 9 
3 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
Code, relating to notice, public participation, and deferred effective 
dates, were not followed in connection with this amendment. The effect 
of the amendment is to avoid duplication of margin requirements. 
In the 
circumstances, the Board found that following such procedures would result 
in delays that would be 
contrary to the public interest and serve no use-
ful purpose. 
Adopted August 13, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenycn 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2560 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. U] 
PART 221 - CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF 
PURCHASING OR CARRYING MARGIN STOCKS 
1. Effective immediately 5 221.3(x) is amended to read as follows 
§ 221.3 Miscellaneous provisions. 
* * * 
0 0 
Combined purchase of mutual funds and insurance. 
(1) An 
extension of purpose credit provided for in a plan, program, or invest-
ment contract that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77) and provides for the 
acquisition both of a security issued by an investment company described 
in paragraph (v)(5) of this section and an insurance policy or contract 
shall be subject to all the provisions of this part, except that, where the 
credit is secured by the security and does not exceed the premium on such 
policy (plus any applicable interest), the maximum loan value of such 
security shall be AO per cent of its current market value, as determined 
by any reasonable method. 
(2) Sections 221.1 and 221.3(t) of this part shall not apply to 
any credit extended to a person registered pursuant to § 207.1(a) of this 
Chapter (Regulation G) who extends credit pursuant to § 207.4(f)(1) of this 
Chapter, Provided, That: 

o cr i > 
-2-
(i) the credit extended pursuant to this subparagraph is secured 
by securities that are issued by an investment company described in 
paragraph (v)(5) of this section, and are carried for the account of one 
or more customers under a plan, program, or investment contract described 
in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (and the bank receives written notice 
from the recipient of the credit to this effect); and 
(ii) the provisions of such plan, program, or investment 
contract conform to the provisions of Rule 15c2-l of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission concerning hypothecation of customer's securities 
(17 CFR 240.15c2-1) 
•k ft ft 
2a. 
Sect 
ion 221.3(x) has been amended to add a new subpara-
graph (2) to permit a bank to extend exempt credit, in connection with 
the wholesale financing of equity funding plans or programs, to persons 
registered pursuant to 5 207.1(a) of this Chapter (Regulation G) who 
extend credit in accordance with 5 207.4(f)(1). To qualify for the exemp-
tion the bank credit must be secured by customers' securities which are 
issued by an investment company described in 5 221.3(v)(5), i.e., mutual 
fund shares, pledged in conformity with the provisions of a rule of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission regarding hypothecation of customers' 
securities, and accompanied by a statement received by the bank, that 
such securities are carried for the account of one or more customers 
under an equity funding plan, program, or investment contract. 

t . 
• 
-3-
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
Code, relating to notice, public participation, and deferred effective 
• , 
!. ! 
I 
dates, r/ere not followed in connection with this amendment. The effect 
of the amendment is to avoid duplication of margin requirements. 
In the 
circumstances, the Board found that following such procedures would 
result in delays that would be contrary to the public interest and serve 
no useful purpose. 
Adopted August 13, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
Item No. 6 
•F THE 
8/13/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I D I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O E N 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
AUG 2 0 1969 
Mr. Karl R. Bopp, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Bopp: 
This is in response to your letter of June 13 requesting 
the Board's comments on a proposed policy statement covering loans 
to nonmember banks under the authority of paragraph 13 of Section 13 
of the Federal Reserve Act, and on the application of that authority 
to cases where a nonmember bank needs funds to cover check clearings 
or to avoid capital impairment. 
The Board does not believe that this authority should be 
exercised merely to protect the stockholders of a nonmember bank. 
It is of the opinion that a decision in this regard should be based 
on other probable consequences of failure to obtain credit and the 
impact of any resulting bank failure on the economy. 
The policy statement proposed by your Bank and the 
questions concerning loans to cover check clearings or to avoid 
capital impairment, when viewed in the light of.the report of the 
System Committee on the Discount Mechanism, would seem to raise 
the possibility of differing evaluations among the Reserve Banks 
of situations that would adversely affect the economy. 
The Board 
believes that any application for credit under the authority of 
paragraph 13 of Section 13 would be a matter of System interest 
and that all such applications should be handled with appropriate 
uniformity, particularly in view of the possible involvement of 
other interests such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and State banking commissioners. 
It seems doubtful that this 
objective could be achieved by the adoption of broad policy state-
ments by individual Reserve Banks. 

Mr. Karl R. Bopp 
-2-
The Board has concluded, therefore, that it would be 
advisable for each application for an initial advance under 
authority of the thirteenth paragraph oJ Section 13 to be sub-
mitted to the Board for consideration and approval, and that 
each application be accompanied by pertinent information in re-
gard to the circumstances underlying the application (including 
plans of the borrower to liquidate the advance promptly) and by 
a recommendation from the Reserve Bank concerned. 
In instances 
where the Board approves the advance, it would so indicate and 
would authorize the Reserve Bank to approve further advances. 
In urgent cases it would be understood that the information 
could be submitted to the Board by telephone and that the Board 
would be prepared to act promptly. To facilitate such action, 
it would be appreciated if you would keep us :urrently informed 
about any prospective nonmember bank borrowings. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

••-ooisoV/ 
"'f^URfc^V 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• 
F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 7 
8/13/69 
S-2100 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 21, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
There follows the text of a letter that has been sent 
to the President of a Federal Reserve Bank regarding procedures 
to be followed in handling requests from nonmember banks for 
loans under the authority of paragraph 13 of Section 13 of the 
Federal Reserve Act: 
"This is in response to your letter of June 13 
requesting the Board's comments on a proposed policy 
statement covering loans to nonmember banks under the 
authority of paragraph 13 of Section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, and on the application of that authority 
to cases where a nonmember bank needs funds to cover 
check clearings or to avoid capital impairment. 
"The Board does not believe that this authority 
should be exercised merely to protect the stockholders 
of a nonmember bank. 
It is of the opinion that a 
decision in this regard should be based on other 
probable consequences of failure to obtain credit and 
the impact of any resulting bank failure on the 
economy. 
"The policy statement proposed by your Bank and 
the questions concerning loans to cover check clear-
ings or to avoid capital impairment, when viewed in 
the light of the report of the System Committee on the 
Discount Mechanism, would seem to raise the possi-
bility of differing evaluations among the Reserve Banks 
of situations that would adversely affect the economy. 
The Board believes that any application for credit 
under the authority of paragraph L3 of Section 13 
would be a matter of System interest and that all such 
applications should be handled with appropriate 
uniformity, particularly in view of the possible 

involvement of other interests such as the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation and State banking 
comroissioners. 
It seems doubtful that this objec-
tive could be achieved by the adoption of broad 
policy statements by individual Reserve Banks. 
"The Board has concluded, therefore, that 
it would be advisable for each application 
for an initial advance under authority of the 
thirteenth paragraph of Section 13 to be submitted 
to tiie Board for consideration and approval, and 
that cach application be accompanied by pertinent 
information in regard to the circumstances under-
lying the application (including plans of the 
borrower to liquidate the advance promptly) and by 
a recommendation from the Reserve Bank concerned. 
In instances where the Beard approves the advance, 
it would so indicate and would authorize the Reserve 
Bank to approve further advances. 
In urgent cases 
it would be understood that the information could 
be submitted to the Board by telephone and that 
the Board would be prepared to act promptly. 
To 
facilitate such action, it would be appreciated if 
you would keep us currently informed about any 
prospective nonmenber bank borrowings." 
Very truly yours, 
"P 
r
v 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

O C T i 
Item No. 8 
8/13/69 
AOOHcan orriciAi. conBispoNDtNcc 
TO T H I S C A R S 
August 15, 1969. 
Mr. Aubrey N. Hefliri, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. He flip.: 
This acknowledges your letter of July 14, 1969, referring 
to the changes in plans for, and related construction work on, the 
computer and communications facilities at the Communications and 
Records Center, Culpeper, Virginia. 
Concerning the changes in con-
struction plans, the Board of Governors on August 7, 1967, approved 
an expenditure in the amount of $470,000, and your July 14 letter 
advises that your Bank's Board of Directors has unanimously authorized 
an additional expenditure in the amount of $538,563.36, of which 
$471,268 vculd be paid to Piracci Construction Company, Baltimore, 
Maryland, the general contractor, and $67,295.36 to your Bank 5s 
architect, Marcellus Wright & Partners, Richmond, Virginia. 
As reflected in the correspondence previously exchanged 
between the 3oard and your Bank in this matter, and confirmed by your 
July 14 letter, the Board's August 7, 1967 authorization for expendi-
ture of $470,000 was premised upon a cost estimate rendered by your 
Bank's architect prior to the preparation of revised drawings and 
specifications. 
Between August 1967 and December 1968, during which 
time drawings and specifications were completed and construction pur-
suant to the change orders was undertaken, further cost estimates were 
submitted by the architect, the last of which, in the amount of 
$898,069 was submitted in the form of certification of payment con-
tained in a letter dated December 19, 1968. 
On or about May 23, 1969, pursuant to Demand for Arbitration 
filed with the American Arbitration Association on behalf of the con-
tractor, a final claim for cost incident to the change order construc-
tion was made in the amount of $1,253,232, or $355,163 in excess of the 
$898,069 certified as due by the architect on December 19, 1968. 
Sub-
sequent to the filing of the Demand for Arbitration, counsel for the 
contractor tendered a settlement offer of $941,263, which offer remains 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
- t f ^ V f t f r . 
o r 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTE 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Sitif 
•^URESfX 

Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin 
-2-
outstanding at this date. 
Payment by your Bank to the contractor of 
$471,268, the amount for which Board authorization is herein sought, 
when added to t.ie $470,000 authorized by the Board in August 1967, 
would represent acceptance and payment of the settlement offer of 
$941,268 made on behalf of the contractor. 
On the basis of a review of the architect's December 19, 
1968 certification for payment, and in reliance upon the settlement 
recommendations contained in letters of May 28 and July 3, 1969, to 
your Bank from your counsel, Mr. Gilbert A. Cuneo, the Board has 
approved payment by your Bank to the Piracci Construction Company of 
an additional $471,268. This authorization simultaneously constitutes 
Board concurrence in your Eank's acceptance of the offer made in 
settlement of the pending Demand for Arbitration. 
It is assumed that: 
your Bank's counsel will take all steps necessary to effect a recorded 
settlement and dismissal of the Demand for Arbitration. 
Regarding the remaining $67,295.36 of the $538,563.36 for 
which authorization was requested, which remainder you state would be 
paid as architect and engineering fees and related expenses, the 
Board has deferred action on this portion of your request pending re-
ceipt from you of a legal opinion which it is understood you have re-
quested of Mr. Cuneo as to whether such proposed payment should be 
reduced or withheld because of any setoff or counterclaim that: might 
be asserted against the architect. Upon receipt of this opinion and 
your Bank's recommendation, the Beard will consider further your re-
quest for authorization relating to the proposed $67,295.36 expenditur 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
