ft 609 
>(Kev. 5-67) 
Minutes for 
February 2, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, February 2, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, Sigel 
Smith, Eckert, Keir, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, 
Kichline, and Wendel of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Katz, Wood, 
Baker, Gekker, Pizer, Ruckdeschel, and Stem 
of the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Keir reported on the current Treasury 
financing as well as on conditions in the Government securities market 
IJ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

473 
2/2/68 
-2-
generally, Mr. Wendel commented on aspects of the proposed Federal bud-
get, Mr. Eckert reviewed recent and prospective bank credit developments, 
Mr. Ettin reported on the corporate and municipal bond markets and on 
flows at savings institutions, and Mr. Baker summarized foreign exchange 
and gold market developments. Copies of the several charts and tables 
distributed in connection with today's review have been placed in the 
Board's files. 
Governor Sherrill withdrew from the meeting at this point, as 
did Messrs. Broida, Solomon (Adviser), and Bernard, and Miss McWhirter. 
Members of the research divisions except Messrs. Smith and Sammons also 
withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Cloth and Sanders, and Mrs. Heller of 
the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull and Lawrence of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Burton and Miss Greene of the Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Jamison, Assistant Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Boston and Minneapolis on January 29 and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on February 1, 
1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 

2/2/68 
-3-
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed merger of The Pickens Bank, Pickens, South Carolina, into State 
Bank and Trust Company, Greenwood, South Carolina, was approved unani-
mously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion stated that 
consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Telegrams to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
1-2 
York authorizing the opening and maintenance 
of accounts in the names of Banque du Liban 
(Bank of Lebanon) and the Board of Commis-
sioners of Currency, Singapore. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget regarding 
3 
enrolled bill S. 1542, "To amend section 408 
of the National Housing Act, as amended, to 
provide for the regulation of savings and 
loan holding companies and subsidiary com-
panies ." 
Application of Central Banking System (Item No. 4). There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated January 22, 1968, from the Division 
of Examinations, with other pertinent papers, regarding the application 
of Central Banking System, Inc., Oakland, California, to become a bank 

1 ^ o 
2/2/68 
-4-
holding company through acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the vot-
ing shares of Central Valley National Bank, Oakland, California, and 
First National Bank of Fresno, Fresno, California. The Division rec-
ommended approval, as did the Banking Markets Section, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, and the Comptroller of the Currency. 
Following a review of the application by Mr. Leavitt, Governor 
Brimmer expressed the view that it would be unfortunate to allow the 
plans to go forward with a substantial capital deficiency already 
evident, as described in the distributed material, especially since 
there were indications that further expansion of the holding company 
system was contemplated. He noted that the subject had been discussed 
with the proponents by the Reserve Bank, that a letter had been re-
quested, but that the nature of the reply, if one had been made, was 
not apparent from the file. 
Mr. Burton said that he understood the applicant had submitted 
a letter, but with no definite promise of a capital increase at the 
present time. 
Governor Robertson said that he would be willing to approve the 
application; he did not see much for or against it. However, he felt 
that it might be wise from a psychological standpoint to pursue the 
matter of capital adequacy further before taking formal action on the 
application. He suggested that the question be raised again with the 
applicant through the Reserve Bank, with a request for submission of 

473 
2/2/68 
-5-
definite plans for augmenting capital over the next two or three years. 
The proponents would then be aware that the Board would be looking at 
the capital situation in connection with any acquisitions that might 
be proposed later. 
Governor Maisel stated that his view of the application was 
more than neutral. 
It appeared to him that an aggressive, competitive 
bank such as Central Valley was a useful institution, and that the 
introduction of the proposed holding company into the California bank-
ing picture would fill a need by enabling the affiliation of small 
independent banks that did not want to be merged out of existence. 
Governor Brimmer commented that it was for that reason, par-
ticularly, that he would like to see the holding company launched on 
a sound basis, with stress on capital adequacy. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he would not be averse to 
obtaining additional information on plans for strengthening capital, 
but that he would not favor making that a condition to approval of the 
application. He suggested that, since it seemed probable on the basis 
of comments at today's meeting that the Board would eventually approve 
the application, the staff prepare an order and statement for consid-
eration by the Board. Meanwhile, negotiations in regard to capital 
could proceed. 
Following further discussion, it was agreed to request the 
applicant to submit additional information with respect to a program 
for reducing or eliminating the indebtedness of the holding company 

2/2/68 
-6-
and strengthening the capital position of the lead bank. It was under-
stood that the staff would draft an order and statement regarding the 
application in order that they might be available when the Board voted 
on the application. 
Secretary's Note: A copy of the letter 
sent to applicant through the San Francisco 
Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated February 1, 
1968, requesting authorization for a dinner at the Federal Reserve 
Building on March 26, 1968, in connection with the annual meeting 
of the Conference of General Auditors of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
with anticipated attendance of approximately 40 persons. 
(Governor 
Robertson later approved on behalf of the Board a list of persons to 
whom invitations would be extended.) 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics recom-
mending the appointment of Patricia Harris as Statistical Clerk in 
that Division, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,995, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
On February 2, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
5 
approving the designation of Robert W. Thomas as 
special assistant examiner. 

2/2/68 
-7-
(%3 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Item No. 
Letter to Bordentown Banking Company, Borden-
town, New Jersey, approving the establishment 
of a branch at 300 Farnsworth Avenue incident 
to the removal of the bank's main office from 
that location to U.S. Route 130, Bordentown 
Township. 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
T E L E G R A M 
2/2/68° 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
February 2, 1968 
MA.CLAURY - NEW YORK 
Your wire of February 1. Board approves opening and 
maintenance of an account on books of Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York in the name of Banque du Liban, subject to usual 
terms and conditions. It is understood that participation 
in this account will be offered to other Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 

< < 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
Item No. 2 
2/2/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
February 2, 1968 
MACLA.URY - NEW YORK 
Your wire of February 1. Board approves opening and 
maintenance of an account on books of Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York in the name of Board of Commissioners of Currency, 
Singapore, subject to usual terms and conditions. 
It is under-
stood that participation in this account will be offered to 
' . ' . i - l . 
.-IV) 
r; y:.; 
i 
: ' ( r ; ' 
'.It,! 
•« 
..;>.•< 
v: 
,., 
: 
: 
; 
- V : \ i -
other Federal Reserve Banks. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 
! •.••; 
k 'i ; 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F t H E 
Item No. 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
2/2/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , Q. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
OFFICE OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
February 2, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of January 31, 1968, 
for the views of the Board of Governors with respect to enrolled 
bill S. 1542, "To amend section 408 of the National Housing Act, 
as amended, to provide for the regulation of savings and loan hold-
ing companies and subsidiary companies." 
The Board understands 
that the purpose of this legislation is to provide a comprehensive 
statutory framework for the registration, examination, and regu-
lation of holding companies controlling one or more federally 
insured savings and loan associations. 
The Board favors Presidential approval of S. 1542. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J . L. Robertson. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
item No. 4 
• F T H E 
2 / 2 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 9, 1968. 
Central Banking System, Inc., 
301 - 20th Street, 
Oakland, California. 
94612 
Gentlemen: 
This is in reference to your application to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of Central Valley National 
Bank, Oakland, California, and First National Bank of Fresno, Fresno, 
California. 
In its preliminary consideration of this application the 
Board was concerned over the capital position of Central Valley 
Nat ional Bank and the debt of the proposed holding company incurred 
to partially finance the acquisition of the Fresno Bank's stock. 
It can sometimes be appropriate for a bank holding company 
to incur reasonable indebtedness to strengthen the capital of one or 
more of its subsidiary banks. However, debt incurred in order to 
acquire an existing bank, whether as part of a formation of a bank 
holding company or at a subsequent stage, is generally undesirable 
since it limits the future ability of the holding company to furnish 
such assistance to its subsidiary banks as needed. 
In President Rafton's letter of December 27, 1967, he 
stated that management recognizes that growth of Central Valley 
National Bank would necessitate additional capital in the next one 
or two years. The Board is of the view that, considering the pro-
posed debt of the holding company, there is a more immediate need 
for plans to strengthen the capital position of the holding company 
group. 
Accordingly, it is requested that you furnish a specific 
statement of plans to eliminate or reduce the proposed debt of the 
holding company together with a similarly specific statement of 
program for strengthening the capital position of Central Valley 
National Bank with in the near future. In order to facilitate the 
Board's disposition of this application, it would be appreciated 
if you would reply as promptly as practicable. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
ggs&k-. 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

4 SO 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRS 
Item No. 5 
O F T H E 
2 / 2 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 5, 1968 
Mr. 0. 0. Wyrick, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Mr. Wyrick: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of January 31, 1968, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
designation of Robert W. Thomas as a special assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 
As requested, the name of John L. Stewart 
has been deleted from our list of special assistant 
examiners. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

481 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
P H I L A D E L P H I A . 
PENNSYLVANIA 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 6 
2/2/68 
February 2, 1968 
Board of Directors 
Bordentovn Banking Company 
Bordentovn, Nev Jersey 08505 
Dear Sirs: 
On behalf of the 
Reserve System, acting unde 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Bordentovn Banking Company, Bo 
Jersey, of a branch 
Farne 
Burlington Countyy'NevJerfcey, 
vithin six month® fnamttie cite of 
At ptfe 
of your bank and 
as a b m m h your 
13Q/^etvcen\Cros swi 
Cp\jfelr ling ton 
ti iC office. 
s of the Fede^ 
lority, the Federal 
stablishment by 
•lington County, New 
Avenue ill Bordentovn, 
the branch is established 
jetter. 
th Avenue is the main office 
thAt vhen that office is opened 
t wranch office at U. S. Route 
Farnsvorth Avenue, Bordentovn 
v Jersey, vill be opened as the 
The 
the\ba^ vill. 
totaiv oj 
offeritas of 
this spr! 
'orAgoing approval is granted vith the understanding 
-nayjgurate a program to increase capital funds by a 
through sale of stock in three successive annual 
*00,000 each, the first offering to be made sometime 
Very truly yours, 
I. Ca^.joU 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 
1/ Reference is made to a meeting on January IT, 1968 at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia attended by Messrs. Wells and Deacon 
of Bordentovn Banking Company and Messrs. Campbell and Case of 
the Federal Reserve Bank. 
