MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 15, 1967 

•;;.) c -
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, December 15, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Miss Wolcott, and Miss McWhirter 
of the Office of the Secretary 
V" ; { 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials used in connection therewith have 
been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill 
and Eckert of the Division of Research and Statistics then withdrew 
from the meeting. Messrs. Broida and Molony and Miss McWhirter also 
withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Sanders of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull, Cleaver, and Lawrence of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Tj Other officers and staff of the Division also were present, 

' 
4 8 2 5 1 
12/15/67 
-2-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on December 14, 1967, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
. 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. After discussion of a 
draft of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Keweenaw 
Savings Bank, Mohawk, Michigan, into The Merchants & Miners Bank, 
Calumet, Michigan, in which the conclusion was stated that consummation 
of the merger would have no adverse competitive effects, the Board 
agreed with the view of the Banking Markets Section that the competitive 
effects would be slightly adverse. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the transmittal 
°f the report in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The 
Keweenaw Savings Bank, Mohawk, Michigan, and The 
Merchants & Miners Bank, Calumet, Michigan, would 
have slightly adverse competitive effects. 
H.R. 14030. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency Committee with respect 
t o H.R. 14030, a bill "To provide for an independent agency for the 
supervision of Federal credit unions, and for other purposes." A copy 
°f the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 

' 4830 
12/15/67 
-3-
"Golden Passbook" accounts. Pursuant to the understanding 
at the meeting on October 18, 1967, and in the light of information 
obtained subsequently through the Federal Reserve Banks, there had 
been distributed a revised draft of reply to the request of Chairman 
Patman of the House Banking and Currency Committee that the Board 
study the legality of so-called "Golden Passbook" accounts and their 
use "as a device to renew excessive interest rate competition for 
i\ .', i 
consumer savings." 
Although the revised draft was regarded as generally 
acceptable, there were a number of suggestions for further editing. 
It being understood that those suggestions would be taken 
into account, unanimous approval was given to the transmittal of a 
letter reflecting their consideration. A copy of the letter, as 
sent, is attached as Item No. 2. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited 
staff attendance. 
Director appointments. To succeed Mr. Carl A. Day, who 
Was resigning effective at the end of 1967, it was agreed to 
ascertain through the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York 
whether Mr. Howard F. Carver, President, Gleason Works, 
Rochester, New York, would accept appointment, if tendered, as a 
director of the Buffalo Branch for the unexpired portion of the 

4831 
12/15/67 
-4-
three-year term ending December 31, 1968, with the understanding 
that if it were found that he would accept the appointment would be 
made. 
In the event it was ascertained that Mr. Carver would not 
be available, it was agreed that the same procedure would be followed 
with respect to Mr. Norman F. Beach, Vice President and General 
Manag er, Kodak Park Division, Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, 
New York. 
Secretary's Note: 
It developed that Mr. Carver 
would not be available, but that Mr. Beach would 
accept the appointment if tendered. 
Accordingly, 
an appointment telegram was sent to Mr. Beach. 
It was also agreed to ascertain through the Chairman of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco whether Mr. Norman B. 
Houston, Jr., Senior Vice President and Treasurer, Golden State 
Mutual Life Insurance Company, Los Angeles, California, would accept 
appointment, if tendered as a director of the Los Angeles Branch for 
the three-year term beginning January 1, 1968, with the understanding 
that if it were found that he would accept the appointment would be 
made. 
Secretary's Note: 
It having been ascertained that 
an acceptance would be forthcoming, an appointment 
telegram was sent to Mr. Houston. 
With respect to the forthcoming vacancy on the Board of 
Directors of the Pittsburgh Branch, Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 

483il 
12/15/67 
-5-
which the Board of Governors had contemplated filling by the 
appointment of Dr. Richard M. Cyert, Dean of Carnegie Mellon 
University, advice had now been received that Dr. Cyert was on 
sabbatical leave and probably would not return to the United 
Stat es until September 1968. In the circumstances, the staff 
was requested to contact the Cleveland Reserve Bank in an effort 
to develop the names of other persons who might be considered, 
including the names of persons not associated with large industrial 
organizations. 
Reserve status. Representatives of three California banks 
(City National Bank, Beverly Hills; United States National Bank, 
San Diego; and Southern California First National Bank, San Diego) 
were to visit the Board's offices this afternoon to discuss the 
reserve status of those banks. Question was raised whether any 
members of the Board were planning to be present, and Governors 
Mitchell and Brimmer indicated that they were. 
Citizens and Southern. At the request of Governor Robertson, 
Mr. Solomon summarized the discussion that had taken place during 
a visit to the Board's offices yesterday by representatives of The 
Citizens and Southern National Bank, Savannah, Georgia, concerning 
the question of a possible violation of the Bank Holding Company Act 
that had arisen in connection with a recent merger application. 

4833 
12/15/67 
-6-
Governor Robertson noted that a memorandum on the matter was being 
sent to the Board members by Mr. Solomon. 
Study of institutional investors. At the request of 
Governor Robertson, Mr. Brill commented on a luncheon meeting yester-
day with Chairman Cohen of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
concerning resolutions now being considered within the Congress that 
would urge the Commission to undertake a study of the role of 
institutional investors in the securities market. Mr. Cohen, faced 
with a tight budgetary situation, was exploring the possibility of 
securing both financial and personnel assistance from the Federal 
Reserve if such a study should be conducted. 
Mr. Brill mentioned some of the factors that the Board no 
doubt would want to consider before reaching a decision on the extent, 
if any, to which it would commit resources, and there followed a 
preliminary discussion of the matter during which a considerable 
degree of interest in the subject of the proposed study was expressed. 
There was general agreement, however, that no commitments should be 
made at this stage, and it was understood that a staff memorandum 
reviewing the issues involved and possible alternatives available to 
the Board would be prepared as a basis for further consideration of 
* 
;; 
the matter. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

4 4834 
12/15/67 
-7-
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Robertson today 
approved on behalf of the Board memoranda 
recommending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
Salary increases, effective Decerrber 17, 1967 
Name and title 
Division 
Office of the Secretary 
Dianne Robertson, Stenographer 
Legal 
Barbara Jane Sawyer, Stenographer 
Research and Statistics 
Carmen H. Feliciano, Secretary 
Examinations 
Bernice Bell, Secretary 
Administrative Services 
Clifford V. Glover, Messenger 
vickie M. Hulteen, Stenographer 
Data Processing 
Patricia Ann Russell, Production Control 
Clerk 
Judy c. Walker, Secretary 
%lary increase, effective January 14, 1968 
Basic annual salary 
From 
$4,269 
4,776 
6,065 
5,867 
3,609 
4,776 
4,776 
5,331 
To 
$4,776 
4,936 
6,263 
6,065 
3,731 
4,936 
4,936 
5,507 
Johnny Samuel Fox, Jr., Chauffeur (Station Wagon), Division of 
Administrative Services, from $4,701 to $5,179 per annum. 

12/15/67 
-8-
Transfer 
Virginia M. Spivey, from Assistant Supervisor, Secretarial 
Section, to Secretary, Office of the Secretary, effective December 
1967. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Barry C. Craig, Attorney, Legal Division, effective the close 
of business January 23, 1968. 
Carol M. Bassie, Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business December 22, 1967. 
Marcia Patz, Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business December 29, 1967. 
Royal Shipp, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business January 3, 1968. 
Clara M. Berger, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business December 15, 1967. 
Michael Costley, Cafeteria Laborer, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective December 7, 1967. 
Governor Robertson today noted on behalf of 
the Board a memorandum advising that Bruce L. 
Moffett, Operator (Offset Press), Division 
of Administrative Services, had filed applica-
tion for retirement effective January 1, 1968. 
Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of a letter 
sent today to all Federal Reserve Banks 
transmitting revised instructions relating 
to the custody of unissued Federal Reserve 
notes and of collateral for Federal Reserve 
notes. 
On December 15, 1967, actions were taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated authority 
as reflected in the following letters, copies 
of which are attached as indicated: 

4836 
i V'i •^•^•-A >* '•••'•• 
12/15/67 
••••J.-;,-
-9-
Sz. the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
approving the appointment of Melvin J. Foster 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
approving the appointment of Marvin L. Knoff 
as examiner. 
Item No, 
it 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Letter to Norfolk County Trust Company, 
Brookline, Massachusetts, approving the 
establishment of a branch in Foxborough. 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Letter to Savannah Bank & Trust Company of 
Savannah, Savannah, Georgia, approving the 
establishment of an in-town branch. 
' 1 
' . ! 
V* 
: M ' :v 
, ZZ'^'i i 
t 
'--s-.i i C •„ a 
C.;iv5 -J - ^r'Ui.v1. 
fv 

Item No. 11 
12/15/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A I M I N O T O N 
OFFICE O F THE 
CHAIRMAN 
December 18, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Banking and Currency Committee, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
1 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
_ 
This is in response to .your letter of November 20, 
1967, requesting the Board's views on H.R. 14030, a bill ,hTo 
provide for an independent agency for the supervision of Federal 
credit unions, and for other purposes." 
The Board understands that the major purpose of this 
bill is to spin off the Bureau of Federal Credit Unions from 
the Department of Housing, Education, and Welfare. Such a 
^organizational proposal does not relate to the Board's area 
°f responsibility, and, accordingly, we have no comments to 
offer for your consideration with respect to H.R. 14030. 
M 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 2 
12/15/67 
•r'MLRE^.' 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 22, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of October 12, 1967, 
in which, on behalf of your Committee, you request the Board to 
study the legality of "Golden Passbook" accounts and their use as 
a device to renew excessive interest rate competition for smaller 
(so-called "consumer") savings. 
The "Golden Passbook" account is not a unique instrument. 
It is simply the trade name used by some banks for a time deposit, 
°pen account that involves use of a passbook. 
Consumer-type open 
accounts are also offered in passbook form under different names 
and in nonpassbook form as well. 
Such forms of open accounts, 
while not entirely new, were not promoted to any great extent until 
the past year or two, and can be regarded as still in the experi-
mental stage. 
Information is not available to indicate whether the 
form of the deposit - passbook versus nonpassbook - has been a domi-
nant consideration influencing depositor attraction to this type of 
saving. 
The regulatory framework for use of time deposits, open 
account has been in Regulation Q since its inception in 1933. A 
feature distinguishing such accounts from savings accounts is the 
recluirement that such accounts must have a specific maturity or be 
subject to a minimum notification period before withdrawal. 
In most 
types of consumer open accounts recently introduced, the depositor 
is required to give written notice at least 90 days in advance of 
withdrawal. 
These accounts are designed for relatively interest-
sensitive customers, and the banks generally require a much larger 
minimum deposit than is applicable to their regular savings accounts 
example, $1,000 for several of the more publicized plans. 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
4S3IJ 
While interest rates offered on consumer-type open accounts 
a*"e limited to the maximums prescribed by Federal regulations, the 
rates paid vary with the competitive situation of the bank and also 
with applicable State law. Although separate rate information cover-
ing this particular type of account has not been collected on the 
existing Federal Reserve quarterly survey of time and savings deposit 
rates, the survey data suggest that rates offered on such deposits by 
most large banks are in the 4-3/4 per cent to 5 per cent range. 
As the Board indicated in its letter of January 17, 1967, 
it does not consider that the use of the term "Golden Passbook" 
violates or circumvents the Board's Regulation Q. A deposit contract 
that requires at least 90 days1 written notice prior to any with-
drawal from the account is not a "savings deposit" under Regulation Q. 
It may be a "time deposit, open account", in which event the maximum 
Permissible rate of interest is 5 per cent per annum. An open account 
time deposit in which the contract requires written notice of 30 to 
89 days would be subject to an interest ceiling of 4 per cent, the 
same as a savings deposit. 
(A deposit with a maturity or required 
notification period of less than 30 days does not meet the definition 
"time deposit, open account".) 
Although a bank must reserve the right to require at least 
3 0 days' notice of withdrawal from a "savings deposit", in practice 
Such a deposit is paid on demand. While it is typically represented 
by 
a passbook, that is not required, and a number of banks do not use 
the passbook form for savings accounts. Similarly, there is no re-
tirement as to the form of the contract in the case of time deposits, 
open account, and, as indicated above, they are issued in both pass-
°ok and nonpassbook form. In other words, the distinctions, insofar 
a s the Board's Regulation Q is concerned, between "savings deposits" 
"time deposits, open account" do not depend on the particular 
documentary form used by a bank. 
You suggest that the "Golden Passbook" account violates the 
sPirit if not the letter of the Regulation Q prohibition against pay-
ment of interest on savings deposits at a rate in excess of 4 per cent 
P e r annum. The purpose of Regulation Q is, of course, to implement 
Congressional policies relating to the payment of interest on deposits-
emand, savings, and time. When those policies are being circumvented 
y the use of various labels, such as occurred in recent years by 
Member banks issuing "short-term promissory notes", the Board considers 
t-hat both the letter and the spirit of Regulation Q would be frustrated 
UlUess appropriate corrective action is taken. However, when the use 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-3-
4840 
°f a particular kind of document does not circumvent the rules governing 
payment of interest on deposits, no useful purpose would be served by 
attempting to regulate such matters of form. 
To furnish your Committee with current information on the use 
and development of "Golden Passbook" accounts, the Board asked the 
Reserve Banks for their views on certain aspects of such accounts. 
In 
response to a specific inquiry whether member banks with such accounts 
in fact require 90 days1 notice before permitting withdrawals, the 
Reserve Banks report that their examination of such accounts for com-
pliance with Regulation Q has revealed that violations have been rare 
and mainly inadvertent or through misunderstanding of the Regulation. 
In other words, member banks are paying 5 per cent only on funds that, 
by 
contract, they are assured of having the use of for at least 90 days. 
They may, in accordance with section 217.4(d) of the BoardTs Regulation, 
Permit withdrawals upon less than 90 days' notice where that is necessary 
to prevent great hardship to the depositor. 
Such emergency-type with-
drawals may be made only upon receipt of an application describing fully 
the circumstances constituting the emergency and are accompanied by some 
forfeiture of interest. 
The Reserve Banks have also indicated that banks offering 
Golden Passbook" accounts are careful in explaining to customers the 
effect of the notice of withdrawal requirement. 
Since passbook "savings 
deposits" are in practice paid on demand, such explanation is probably 
necessary to avoid potential misunderstandings and the possible impair-
m ent of customer relationships that might arise from a "Golden Passbook" 
account holder presenting his passbook and asking for immediate payment. 
The Reserve Banks generally are of the view that such accounts 
were developed principally as an effort on the part of commercial banks 
t o retain existing accounts rather than to draw off deposits held by 
savings banks and savings and loan associations. Banks also appear to 
be using such accounts to some extent as an effort to hold funds that 
might otherwise be withdrawn and invested in money market instruments, 
such as Treasury bills, bank acceptances, and the like. Insofar as 
competition with savings institutions is concerned, the New York Reserve 
Bank (in whose district the "Golden Passbook" account apparently was 
first introduced) notes that the use of such accounts does not permit 
commercial banks to compete on equal terms with savings banks in New 
York State, since savings banks in New York pay 5 per cent interest on 
deposits with respect to which depositors have the privilege of with-
drawal on demand. 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-4-
4841 
Thus, while there is no question that banks are using passbook 
and nonpassbook open accounts as a means to compete for consumer savings, 
the thrust of such competition is to remain competitive with savings 
banks and savings and loan associations rather than to renew excessive 
interest rate competition. 
(On savings deposits, the maximum rate for 
banks is 4 per cent; for S&L's it is generally 4-3/4 per cent, with 
5 per cent permitted in certain western States and where savings banks 
Pay such a rate. On bank consumer time deposits the maximum rate is 
5 per cent; on S&L certificate accounts the maximum is 5-1/4 per cent for 
those paying 4-3/4 per cent or less on regular accounts. The maximum on 
S&L certificate accounts is 5 per cent for associations paying in excess 
°f 4.75 per cent on regular accounts, except that associations in certain 
western States may pay 5-1/4 per cent on certificate accounts maintained 
for three years.) 
In attempting to combat the 3/4 per cent competitive advantage 
under the current Federal interest rate ceilings that S&Lfs have over 
commercial banks in the area of regular savings deposits, banks using 
Golden Passbook" type accounts have simply selected one of various al-
ternatives. Another alternative, more favorable to depositors as to 
maturity but less convenient, would be a series of 30-day certificates 
°f deposit (one for each deposit of funds) that, upon maturity, the 
depositor could renew for a like period by appropriate communication with 
the bank. The maximum rate on such deposits, as on the 90-day notice 
account, is 5 per cent per annum, since the certificates are not auto-
matically renewable. 
Such alternatives were available to member banks 
before the 1966 interest-rate legislation was enacted, and the Board does 
n°t believe that such legislation was directed against use of any such 
alternatives. 
Perhaps banks are attracting some new funds by offering open 
account type instruments. However, the fact remains that these accounts 
are a much different type of deposit contract than the regular savings 
deposits. 
In order to obtain an additional 1 per cent per annum over 
the maximum rate on bank savings deposits - or an additional 1/4 per cent 
° V er the maximum rate on regular S&L savings accounts - the depositor 
must give up immediate access to his funds and accept a restriction of 
9 0 days1 notice of any withdrawal. This difference in the nature of a 
savings deposit and a time deposit, open account is believed to be a 
significant and a rational basis upon which to establish a rate differ-
er*tial both within the commercial banking system and between commercial 
banks and savings and loan associations. 

' 4842 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-5-
;
i
. 
In this connection, it might be noted that an investor in a 
savings and loan association certificate account, by not withdrawing 
his funds for six months, may obtain 5-1/4 per cent interest on his 
funds. Thus, by committing himself for six months in an S&L certificate 
account rather than three months in a bank "Golden Passbook" account, he 
may obtain an additional 1/4 per cent, which is not available on con-
sumer savings in a commercial bank. 
The Board shares your interest in "Golden Passbook" type 
accounts. To assure that information on offering rates and amounts out-
standing of such accounts is current and readily available, the Board is 
in the process of developing appropriate requirements and procedures for 
reporting of statistical information on such accounts as a separate item 
°n future quarterly surveys of time and savings deposits. 
Sincerely yours, 
^ ^ ^ 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
>1 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
4843 
Item No. 3 
12/15/67 
S-2040 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 15, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
'v." 
. 
Enclosed are revised instructions relating to the 
custody of unissued Federal Reserve notes and of collateral for 
Federal Reserve notes. These instructions supersede digests of 
rulings published in the 1915 Bulletin, pages 12 and 273 
(F.R.L.S. #5350, #5351, and #5852); and the Board's letters of 
January 6, 1916 (No. 493; F.R.L.S. #5841); August 9, 1917 
(X-312; F.R.L.S. #5840); March 31, 1926 (X-4574; F.R.L.S. #5360); 
October 7, 1926 (X-4682; F.R.L.S. #5862); November 25, 1930 
(X-6766; F.R.L.S. #5863); August 25, 1934 (X-7992; F.R.L.S 
#5864) 
and August 5, 1944 (S-779; F.R.L.S. #5340.1). 
The purpose of the revision is to eliminate obsolete 
material in the miscellaneous rulings and instructions outstanding 
Included in the revision is an item (No. 3) regarding when joint 
custody of Federal Reserve notes and gold certificates deposited 
with the Federal Reserve Agent should be assumed by the Agent and 
the Federal Reserve Bank. 
(This instruction is now contained in 
the Board's letter of October 13, 1960.) 
Very truly yours, 
v a , * 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND ALL FEDERAL RESERVE AGENTS 

4844 
S-2040-a 
CUSTODY OF FEDERAL RESERVE NOTES AND COLLATERAL HELD BY 
FEDERAL RESERVE AGENTS 
(1) The law requires that all Federal Reserve notes and 
all gold certificates deposited with any Federal Reserve Agent be 
held for the Agent in the joint custody of the Agent and the Federal 
Reserve Bank. 
(2) Gold certificates and unissued notes held by the Agent 
should be kept in vaults or divisions thereof having two locks with 
different combinations or keys, one to be held by the Agent or his 
designated representative and the other by officers of the Bank. 
(3) Representatives of the Agent and of the Bank should 
assume joint responsibility for custody of unissued notes addressed 
to the Agent at the time the sealed pouches (or other containers) 
are opened and their contents verified by package count with the 
advice of shipment of the notes. 
Representatives of the Bank exercising joint control may 
be qualified employees designated by the officers charged with 
responsibility for joint custody. 
(4) As the Bank and Agent are jointly liable for the 
safekeeping of gold certificates and unissued notes held by the 
Agent, a joint record should be maintained of all entrances to 
vaults or divisions thereof in which such funds are kept, showing 
by 
whom made, the purpose, and details of funds deposited or with-
drawn. 
(5) While the law does not require joint custody by the 
Agent and the Bank of eligible paper and Government securities 
Pledged as collateral for notes, it is desirable that such collateral 
be held in this manner. 

4845 
B O A R D CDF G D V E R N D R S 
12/15/67 ^ 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2 ! 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 18, 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of December 13, 1967, the Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Melvin 
J. Foster as an assistant examiner for•the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago. Please advise the effective date of the 
appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
!- >.'. • 
i 
' ' ' , 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 5 
12/15/67 
b o a r d o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P C N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 18, 1967 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of December 13, 1967, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Marvin L. 
Knoff, at present an assistant examiner, as an examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, effective 
December 31, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

p 
Item No. 6 
12/15/67 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
BANK 
O F 
B O S T O N 
* 4 a 4 7 
30 PEARL STREET 
Board of Directors 
Norfolk County Trust Company 
Brookllne. Massachusetts 
Gentlemen: 
1967 
On behalf of die Boa 
^•erve System, actlag under delegated putho 
'las approved tat, establishment 
®rook line, Massachusetts, of a1 branch at 2 
*°xbott>ugh, Massachusetts, provided the branch is established 
w*thln one year from the date of this letter. 
pd of Governors of the Federal 
this Bank 
Trust Company, 
sset Street, 
ority, 
loJmty ' 
Cecass^ 
•K'V,,-;.;--
In approving this b 
t o the sound financial condit 
your bank. Moreover, it _ 
"ranch will serve tlwe conveni 
establishment of die branc 
d«« IrabU competitive situation 
ration has been given 
is factory toanagement 
d that the proposed 
f the conmunlty 
to create an un-
Slncerely yours, 
i •;» 
'Mix-* < 

Item No. 7 
12/15/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F A T L A N T A 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 3 0 3 0 3 
Decamber 15, 1967 
Board of Directors 
Savannah Bank & Trust Company 
Savannah 
Savannah, Georgia 
Gentlemen: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, acting under duly delegated authority, this Bank has aprroved 
establishment of a branch at 126 East Bryan Street, Savannah, 
Borgia, provided the branch is established by June 15, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
Harold T. Patterson 
President 
cc: 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
