Minutes for 
January 8, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
US 

53 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 8, 1968. 
The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, 
Sigel, Smith, Eckert, Keir, Weiner, Ettin, 
Freedman, Fry, Gehman, Thompson, Trueblood, 
and Zeisel, and Mrs. Smelker of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Irvine, Katz, 
Wood, Bryant, Emery, Gekker, Mills, Pizer, 
Roxon, and Stem of the Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Economic review. Members of the research staff reviewed the 
U.S. international payments position and selected international finan-
cial developments against the background of the new balance of payments 
program announced by the President at the turn of the year. 
This was 

61 
1/8/68 
-2-
followed by a review of trends in domestic business and financial con-
ditions. The reports were based to some extent on materials that had 
been distributed in preparation for tomorrow's meeting of the Federal 
Open Market Committee, and copies of the relevant documentation have 
been placed in the Committee's files. In addition, at the Board's 
request, copies of the papers presented by the staff of the Interna-
tional Finance Division were distributed to the Board members subse-
quent to the meeting; these papers have been placed in the Board's 
files. 
During the course of today's review Mr. Solomon summarized the 
highlights of his recent trip to Japan, Australia, and New Zealand as 
a member of the Government mission dispatched to those countries for 
the purpose of explaining the new balance of payments program. 
Following discussion based on the staff presentations, members 
of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Partee, Eckert, and 
Sammons withdrew from the meeting. Mr. Broida and Miss McWhirter also 
withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of Data 
Processing 

1/8/68 
-3-
Messrs. Gedanken, Statistician, and Greenspun, Economist, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Miss Hall, Operations Analyst, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Veenstra, Chief, Financial Statistics Section, 
Division of Data Processing 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to The Citizens and Southern National 
1 
Bank, Savannah, Georgia, granting its request 
for permission to accept drafts or bills of 
exchange drawn for the purpose of furnishing 
dollar exchange. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
2 
Banks relating to a revised survey of time and 
savings deposit rates at member banks. 
The letter to the Presidents (Item No. 2) reflected acceptance 
by the Board of the proposal in a memorandum from the Division of 
Research and Statistics dated January 3, 1968, that a revised survey 
of time and savings deposit rates replace the survey conducted on a 
quarterly basis in 1967. The new survey was to be in two parts: 
(1) 
a streamlined sample survey covering amounts outstanding and interest 
rates on major categories of deposits, to be conducted three times a 
year at quarterly intervals beginning January 31, 1968, and (2) a more 
detailed survey, to be conducted once a year on a universe basis. 
The 
surveys were to be conducted jointly with the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
The report form was subject to approval by the Budget Bureau. 

1/8/68 
-4-
New York building p r o g r a m (Item No. 3). In connection with 
consideration by the Board of a proposed building program at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, questions had been raised as to the 
adequacy of assessments by the Reserve Bank of the future size of its 
staff and of its space needs, particularly in light of the impact of 
automation. At its meeting on June 24, 1966, the Board decided to 
defer action on a request by the New York Bank for permission to 
engage an architect to prepare preliminary plans and specifications 
for an annex building pending analysis by the Board
fs staff of the 
Bank's prospective requirements and alternative possibilities for meet-
ing them. 
Such an analysis had now been completed, and in a distributed 
memorandum dated December 14, 1967, submitting the report to the Board 
the Division of Bank Operations summarized the major findings. On the 
basis of the study the Division recommended that the Board authorize 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to proceed with its building pro-
gram. However, in view of certain unsatisfactory characteristics of 
the security court, the Division further recommended that the Reserve 
Bank be requested to continue exploration of that problem in an attempt 
to overcome the undesirable conditions. 
Following summary remarks by Mr. Mcintosh based on the dis-
tributed document, Governor Mitchell stated that the Board's Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans had discussed the 

1/8/68 
-5-
matter last week. He expressed the view that the staff had put together 
an exceptionally good report that contained all the relevant facts and 
provided a solid basis for authorizing the Bank to go ahead with its 
building program. While he would not urge that the Board require the 
preparation of a comparable document with respect to each Reserve Bank 
building program, he believed such an analysis would be useful whenever 
the time schedule permitted. He would furnish the New York Reserve 
Bank a copy of the staff report, in that manner calling to the Bank's 
attention the questions with respect to the security court. 
Governor Brimmer also spoke favorably of the staff analysis. 
In his view the Board should now authorize the New York Bank to go 
ahead with its building program. At the same time he would like to 
encourage the Bank to study further the problem of access to the secu-
rity court, along with the question of the type of passageway that 
should be provided between the main and annex buildings. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
Boston building program. Governor Mitchell noted that, as the 
Board knew, the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had been negotiating 
with the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company for the acquisi-
tion of property adjoining the Bank building as a means of alleviating 
its space problems. Last week, he said, President Ellis discussed with 
the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans an 

61 
1/8/68 
-6-
alternative involving the purchase of another site and construction of 
a new Bank building. President Ellis indi cated that if the alternative 
plan were to be followed it would be necessary to move fairly rapidly, 
and it was understood that he would undertake to provide certain addi-
tional information. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the Board would be in a better 
•yrtiap^v'ovod qrtmni^nG Iv 
to 
C ^ y ? 
;ic r. . r.ixn 
position to make a decision if the staff had an opportunity to prepare 
an analysis along the lines of the New York study, which was an excel-
lent example of what could be done given sufficient time. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the staff should be able to 
draw upon the experience gained in analyzing the New York building 
program and make an evaluation of the Boston situation in a shorter 
time. 
Following further discussion it was understood that the staff 
would undertake a study of the Boston problem. 
Either at this point in the meeting or earlier, members of the 
staff concerned with the presentation of one or more of the foregoing 
topics withdrew from the meeting. 
Director appointment. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston whether John M. Fox, 
Chairman of the Board of United Fruit Company, Boston, Massachusetts, 
would accept appointment, if tendered, as a Class C director of that Bank 
for the unexpired portion of the term ending December 31, 1970, with the 

1/8/68 
-7-
understanding that if it were found that he would accept, the appoint-
ment would be made. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of The Bank of Rich Square, Rich Square, North Carolina, into The 
Planters National Bank and Trust Company, Rocky Mount, North Carolina, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The con-
clusion stated that the competitive effect of the proposed merger 
would be slightly adverse. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon 
then withdrew from the meeting. 
Management succession at Atlanta. Governor Mitchell summarized 
the results of a meeting that the Board's Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans had had last Friday with First Vice 
President Kimbrel of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta relative to 
possibilities for filling the post of First Vice President if Mr. 
Kimbrel were elected President of the Bank to succeed Mr. Patterson 
following the latter's retirement at the end of January. 
Governor 
Mitchell said that Mr. Kimbrel had been furnished a list of names of 
Persons not now connected with the Atlanta Bank who might be considered 
for the post. Mr. Kimbrel had indicated that he would study the list, 
but he continued to express reservations about going outside the Atlanta 
Bank and indicated that in any event he doubted whether the directors 

1/8/68 
-8-
of the Bank would be prepared to take action at their next meeting. 
The Committee suggested to Mr. Kimbrel that he alert the Chairman of 
the Bank to the situation, with the thought that the latter, if he had 
substantial questions, might want to get in touch with Chairman Martin. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Attached as Item No. 4 
is a copy of a letter sent today to the 
Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks 
regarding a revision in the procedure for 
reporting possible violations of various 
criminal provisions of the Federal banking 
laws involving Federal Reserve Banks or 
State member banks. The Justice Department 
had advised, in reply to the Board's letter 
of December 13, 1967, that it would have no 
objection to the modification. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Lillian Humphrey as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,493, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Cynthia L. Reilly as Research Assistant, Division of International 
Finance, with basic annual salary at the rate of $7,184, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
William Henry Phillips, Jr., as Purchasing Assistant, Division of 
Administrative Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,734, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Transfer 
Margaret C. Caldow, from the position of Secretary in the Office 
of the Secretary to the position of Secretary in the Board Members' 
Offices, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of $8,309, 
effective January 1, 1968. 

61 
1/8/68 
-9-
Transfers 
Virginia Ann Callahan, from the position of Secretary in the 
Legal Division to the position of Secretary in the Board Members' 
Offices, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of $7,184, 
effective January 1, 1968. 
Nyart S. Sharigan, from the position of Secretary in the Board 
Members' Offices to the position of Secretary in the Division of Inter-
national Finance, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of 
$8,860, effective January 1, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Carl R. Johnson, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business January 2, 1968. 
Stephana P. Smith, Research Assistant, Division of International 
Finance, effective the close of business January 5, 1968. 
On January 8, 1968, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Item No. 
Letter to The Sylvan State Bank, Sylvan 
5 
Grove, Kansas, approving the declaration 
of a dividend. 

f'Z 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/8/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 8, 1968. 
The Citizens and Southern National Bank, 
Savannah, Georgia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
authorizes your bank to accept drafts or bills of exchange drawn 
for the purpose of furnishing dollar exchange as required by the 
usages of trade in such countries, dependencies, or insular 
possessions of the United States as may have been designated by 
the Board of Governors, subject to the provisions of Section 13 
of the Federal Reserve Act and the Board's Regulation C. 
Enclosed is a list of the countries with respect to 
which the Board of Governors has found that the usages of trade 
require the furnishing of dollar exchange. 
The foregoing authorization has been given with the^ 
understanding that the foreign loans and investments of The 
Citizens and Southern National Bank will not exceed the guidelines 
established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. Your attention is also directed to 
the fact that dollar exchange acceptance financing does not 
represent export credit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

Countries Approved by the Board 
with Respect to Dollar Exchange Acceptances 1/ 
"The Board has designated the following as countries 
whose usages of trade require the furnishing of dollar exchange, 
so that member banks may accept drafts drawn upon them by banks 
or bankers in such countries: 
Australia, New Zealand, and otherl/ Australasian 
dependencies; Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, British 
G u i a n a ! / , British Honduras, Chile, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Dutch East Indies A/, Dutch Guiana^/, Ecuador, 
French Guiana, French West Indies, Guatemala, 
Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto 
Rico, Salvador 6/, Santo DomingoZ/, Trinidad§/, 
Uruguay and Venezuela." 
1/ 
Source: 
Interpretations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System (as of January 1, 1961), p. 80 
2/ 
Now delete "other." 
3/ 
Now Guyana. 
4/ 
Now the Republic of Indonesia 
5/ 
Now Surinam. 
6/ 
Now El Salvador. 
7/ 
Now the Dominican Republic. 
8/ 
Now Trinidad and Tobago. 

«AL RE^V 
B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
1/8/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 16, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
The survey of time and savings deposit rates at member banks 
has been revised, beginning with the January 31 survey, Under the new . 
procedures, the January, April, and July surveys will be conducted on 
a sample basis, using a revised and considerably simplified reporting 
form (copy enclosed). The October survey will be conducted on a universe 
basis using a compatible though more detailed reporting form, which will 
be forwarded at a later date. 
A list of the banks included in the sample has been furnished 
to the Head of Research at your Bank and a technical memorandum outlining 
procedures for processing the reports at the Reserve Banks will be forwarded 
shortly. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plans to conduct an 
identical survey at all nonmember banks on the sample list, and the results 
of the surveys will be combined for purposes of publication. 
Since the survey is being conducted on a sample basis, a special 
effort should be made to obtain as accurate reporting as possible. In this 
regard, the January survey will be particularly important, since the type 
of reporting on this survey will tend to set the pattern for subsequent 
surveys. Moreover, in view of the substantial revisions that have been 
made in the reporting form, the risks of misunderstanding the instructions 
and reporting errors would be expected to be high the first time that it 
is used. 
An innovation in the sampling plan is the provision for augmented 
sampling in major Standard Metropolitan Statistical areas (list enclosed). 
Those covered include virtually all SMSA's with total population on the 
I960 Census of 500,000 or more and selected smaller areas which Heads of 
Research had indicated were essential. The bank samples for these areas 
will provide the basis for accurate estimates of rates and amounts of 
deposits outstanding and for detailed analysis of savings flows in each 
such area. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P, Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/8/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 10, 1968 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York 
10045. 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
This refers to your letter of April 19, 1966, and 
subsequent correspondence concerning your Bank's proposal to 
construct a new annex building. Enclosed is a report prepared 
by the Division of Bank Operations at the Board's request 
which analyzes the various factors involved in your proposed 
building program. The study recommends that the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York be authorized to proceed with its 
building program. The Board has reviewed the Division's 
study and concurs in that recommendation. Accordingly, your 
Bank is hereby authorized to proceed with plans along the 
lines proposed. 
The study also recommends that your Bank give con-
sideration to possibilities for alleviating the unsatisfactory 
conditions associated with the existing arrangements for the 
pickup and delivery of valuables. The Board assumes that this 
problem will be carefully considered. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 

66 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
1/8/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
S-2044 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 8, 1968 
Dear Sir: 
The Board's letter of August 19, 1948 (S-1033; F.R.L.S. 
#6503), is revised by deleting the last sentence of the third 
paragraph and substituting therefor the following: 
In every case in which a report is made 
to the local United States Attorney, whether 
of a felony or of a misdemeanor, one copy of 
the report should be forwarded to the Board 
and two copies should be forwarded to the 
Attorney General of the United States, Depart-
ment of Justice, Washington, D. C. 
The Board has heretofore transmitted to the Department 
of Justice two copies of each report of possible violations of the 
Federal banking laws received from the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Under the revised procedure, the Department's two copies of each 
report will be forwarded directly to it by the Reserve Banks and, 
thus, copies of the reports will be received more promptly by the 
Department. 
Very truly yours 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

F E D E R A L R E S E K V E 
B A N K 
OF 
KANSAS CITY 
Item No. 2 
1/8/68 
JANUART 8 , 1968 
BOARD Of DlRKCTORS 
TNC SYLVAN STATK BANK 
SYLVAN GROVE, KANSAS 
GSNYLKMKNS 
ON SCHALF OR TNK BOARD OR GOVKRHORS ACTINO UNOKR OKLK* 
OATKO AUTHOR ITY, THIS SANK HAS ARRROVKO, UNOKR THC MOVISIOHS 
OF PARAORARH 6 OR SKCTION 9 OF YHI FKOKRAL RSSSRYK ACT ANO 
SECTION 5 1 9 9 U ) OR U . S , RKVISSO STATUTKS, THC OKCLARATION OR 
A OIVIOCNO OR $ 2 % 0 0 0 SY YHI SYLVAN SYATK BANK, SYLVAN GROVK, 
KANSAS IN JANUARY OR 1968. THIS LCYYCR DOCS NOT AUTHORISK 
ANY rUYURt OKCLARATION Of 0IVI0KN9S THAT VOULO RCOUIRK PRIOR 
APPROVAL UNOKR THC rORKOOINO STATUTCS. 
VTRV TRULY YOURS » 
K / J . SWORDS 
Vice PRESIDENT 
