MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 26, 1971 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 3 Amendment to Regulation J, Collection of 
Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve 
Banks• 

• 
2780 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 26, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance _L/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Miss Key and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistants, 
Office of the Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Rippey then reviewed matters of interest to the Federal Reserve 
presently being considered by the Congress. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on October 13; by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
* 
• i • 
• 
1 
• 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas on October 14; 
JV Other officers and staff of the Division also were present 

2781 
10/26/71 
-2-
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on October 18; and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San Francisco 
on October 21, 1971, of the rates on advances and discounts in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved publication of a notice of oppor-
tunity for hearing, pursuant to section 222.4(a) of Regulation Y, Bank 
Holding Companies, regarding the application of First Chicago Corporation, 
Chicago, Illinois, to engage in real property leasing. A copy of the notice 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Provident International 
Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, granting consent to the acquisition 
of additional shares of International Leasing Corporation, Sydney, Australia. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Nortrust Corpora-
tion, Chicago, Illinois, to become a bank holding company through acquisition 
of shares of the successor by merger to The Northern Trust Company, also of 
Chicago, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A 
copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. The Board also approved unan-
imously the related application of Nortrust Bank, Chicago, Illinois, a 
proposed State member bank, to merge with The Northern Trust Company, and 
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of 
the order is attached as Item No. 4. The application of Nortrust Bank 

2792 
10/26/71 
-3-
for membership in the Federal Reserve System was also approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board approved unanimously applications by United Jersey 
Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey, to acquire shares of Peoples Bank of South 
Bergen County, Carlstadt, Peoples Bank of Montvale, and Peoples Bank of 
Ridgewood, all located in New Jersey, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board designated the Territory of American Samoa as being in 
the Twelfth Federal Reserve District for purposes of check collection, 
effective October 26, 1971, as recommended in a memorandum from the Divi-
sion of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated October 19, 1971. Attached 
as Item No. 7 is a copy of the amendment to footnote 1 in section 210.2 
of Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve 
Banks, reflecting this action, along with a copy of the letter sent to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar, and the 
meeting continued from this point with limited staff attendance. 
Mr. Treadway of the Division of Research and Statistics reviewed 
recent stock market and margin credit developments. His comments were 
based on a memorandum from the Capital Markets Section dated October 22, 1971 
a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No.'^l' ^ 
10/26/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
First Chicago Corporation 
Proposal to Engage in Real Property Leasing 
First Chicago Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, a bank 
holding company, has applied, pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(0)) and section 222.4(a) 
°f the Board's Regulation Y, for permission to engage, through its 
subsidiary, First Chicago Leasing Corporation, in certain activities 
involving the leasing of real property to McDonald's Corporation, 
Chicago, Illinois, Notice of the application to engage in certain 
real property leasing activities was published on August 4, 1971 
in the Chicago Daily Nev7s, a newspaper circulated in Chicago. 
Such notice described the activities as follows: 
"leasing'real 
Property, or acting as agent, broker, or adviser in leasing of 
8uch property, where at the inception of the initial lease the 
expectation is that the effect of the transaction and reasonably 
anticipated future transactions with the same lessee as to the same 
Property will be to compensate the lessor for not less than the 
lessor's full investment in the property." 
The Board has determined that leasing personal property 
under substantially similar conditions as those proposed is so closely 
related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper 
incident thereto (section 222.4(a)(6) of the Board's Regulation Y) 
but has made no such determination with respect to the leasing of 
real property. 

I 
•"J? "* 
27m. 
Interested persons may express their views on whether such 
Veal property leasing activities^ tinder the circumstances described, 
so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks 
to be a proper incident thereto. 
Interested persons may also express their views on the 
question whether consummation cf the proposal can "reasonably be 
expectcd to produce benefits to the public, such as greater con-
venience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that out-
weigh possible adverse effects, such a3 'undue concentration of 
resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
unsound banking practices." 
Any requests for a hearing on this question, or on the 
Question whether the proposed activities are activities so closely 
delated eo banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a 
Proper incident thereto, should be accompanied by a, statement sum-
marizing the evidence that the person requesting the hearing proposes 
t o submit or to elicit at the hearing and a statement of the reasons 
Why this matter should not be resolved without a hearing. 
The application may be inspected in Room 1020 of the Board's 
kuildi. ng or at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Any views or requests for hearing should be submitted in 
. Writing and received by the Secretary, Board of Governors of the 
federal Reserve System, Uashington, D. C. 20551, not later than 
November 26, 1971. 
• 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
October 26, 1971. 
, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2785 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No.'^l' ^ 
10/26/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 26, 1971 
Provident International Corporation 
Broad & Chestnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 5, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("PIC") to acquire 
and hold approximately 620,000 additional shares of International 
Leasing Corporation ("ILC"), Sydney, Australia, with value of approx-
imately $112,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed acquisition of shares 
of ILC by PIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That PIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly 
any shares of stock of ILC if ILC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of'the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if ILC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Australia or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to PIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, PIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of ILC as it may require from time to time; 
and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by ILC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if ILC were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

279G 
Provident International Corporation 
2 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by ILC in Australia 
in the currency of that country. 
Your attention is also directed to a recent interpretation 
issued by the Board relating to leasing activities.* 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the proposed acquisition will not involve any transfer of funds, 
cither directly or indirectly, from the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No 
10/26/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
in the Matter of the Application of 
NORTRUST CORPORATION, 
Chicago, Illinois, 
approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of 
fche successor by merger to The Northern 
Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Nortrust Corporation, Chicago, 
Illinois, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant 
w°uld become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 100 
p e r cent of the voting shares (less directors1 qualifying shares) 
the successor by merger to The Northern Trust Company, Chicago, 
Illinois ("Bank"). 

2798 
-2-
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a means of acquiring the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organization 
is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banks and Trust Companies for the State of Illinois and requested his 
Views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of 
t h e application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on September 30, 1971 (36 Federal Register 19195), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
a n d views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
V a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
c°nsideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and a n those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
t h e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
ef£ect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
ftw J 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
th 
6 Banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to k 
be served, and finds that: 

Applicant is a newly organized corporation formed for the 
Purpose of becoming a bank holding company. Bank, with deposits 
o f $1.4 billion as of December 31, 1970, is the fourth largest bank 
^ the City of Chicago and the State of Illinois. 
Inasmuch as the proposal constitutes a corporate reorgani-
2ation and reflects no expansion of corporate interests or signifi-
cant change in the character of the banking facilities involved, 
c°nsummation of the proposal would eliminate neither existing nor 
Potential competition, nor does it appear that there would be any 
Averse effects on any bank in the area. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant and Bank are regarded as generally satisfactory and con-
sistent with approval of the application. The convenience and needs 
the communities involved would not be immediately affected by 
c°neummation of this proposal but improved services may be provided 
in the future under the more flexible corporate structure of the 
company. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction 
v°nld be in the public interest, and that the application should 
approved. 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the record, that 
Said application be and hereby is approved for the reasons sum-
^ U z e d 
above, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
ate of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 

this Order* uhless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 26, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors E.obertson, Maisel, and 
Brimmer. 
(Sisned) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
fSlSAL) 

Item No.'^l' ^ 
10/26/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C. 
l n the Matter of the Application of 
^ORTRUST BANK, 
Chicago, Illinois, 
approval of merger with The 
^orthern Trust Company, Chicago, 
Illinois. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION 
FOR MERGER OF BANKS UNDER 
BANK MERGER ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by NOTtrust 
kank, a proposed member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank with The 
Northern Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois, under the charter of the 
^°tmer and the name of the latter. Notice of the proposed merger, 
form approved by the Board, has been published as required by said 
Act. 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports 
competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the Comp-
troller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Board has considered all relevant material contained in the record 

2802 
-2-
in the light of the factors set forth in the Act, including the 
effect of the proposal on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and prospects of the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that 
said application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summa-
rized in the Board's Order of this date relating to the application 
of Nortrust Corporation to become a bank holding company, provided 
that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 26, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
and Brimmer• 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

2 8 0 - 3 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• P THE 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/26/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS nrriCJIAL CnHllEEPUNDENCE 
TO THE tlOAHD 
October 26, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Nor trust Bank 
Chicago, Illinois 
Gentlemen; 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of Nor trust Bank, Chicago, Illinois, for stock In the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth. 
(1) Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the safety 
of its depositors, and except with the permission of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
such bank shall not cause or permit any change to be 
made in the general character of its business or in the 
scope of the corporate poxvrers exercised by it at the 
time of admission to membership. 
(2) The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that Nor trust Bank, Chicago, Illinois, will not conduct a banking 
business with the public until it has merged with The Northern Trust 
Company, Chicago, Illinois. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

GUARD DP GDVC.RHDRS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2 8 0 4 
Board of Directors 
-2-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adapted, by the board 
of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution should 
be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described herein may be 
accomplished is limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, 
unless the bank applies to the Board and obtains an extension of 
time. When the Board is advised that all of the requirements have 
been complied with and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the 
bank a formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

Item No.'^l' ^ 
10/26/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Applications of 
UNITED JERSEY BANKS, 
Hackensack, New Jersey, 
for approval of acquisition of 100 
per cent of the voting shares of 
Peoples Bank of South Bergen Coynf.y» . 
Carlstadt, Peoples Bank of Montvale, 
Montvale, and Peoples Bank of Ridgewood, 
Ridgewood, all in New Jersey. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There have come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), applications by United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, 
New Jersey, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 
per cent of the voting shares of Peoples Bank of South Bergen County, 
Carlstadt ("Peoples Carlstadt"), Peoples Bank of Montvale, Montvale 
("Peoples Montvale"), and Peoples Bank of Ridgewood, Ridgewood 
("Peoples Ridgewood"), all in New Jersey. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the applications to the New Jersey 
Commissioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the applications. 

-2-
2 8 
Notice of receipt of the applications was published in the 
Federal Register on August 19, 1971 (36 Federal Register 16146, 16147), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. Copies of the applications were 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the applications in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisitions on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and 
finds that: 
Applicant, with six subsidiary banks holding aggregate deposits 
°f $856 million, is the second largest banking organization in New Jersey 
with 5.7 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State. (All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1970 and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through August 31, 1971.) The 
three proposed subsidiaries, Peoples Carlstadt, Peoples Montvale, and 
Peoples Ridgewood, with deposits of $4.7 million, $4.0 million, and 
$1.0 million, respectively, and Applicant's lead bank, Peoples Trust 
°f New Jersey, Hackensack, New Jersey ("Peoples Trust") with deposits 
°f $652 million, are all located in the Patcrson banking market which 
is approximated by Passaic and Bergen Counties. Applicant presently 
ranks as the largest banking organization in the market with control 

28 o? 
of 10.8 per cent of deposits• Acquisition of the proposed subsidiaries 
would increase codtrol by only 0.1 per cent of market deposits. Although 
the separate and distinct service areas of the proposed subsidiaries are 
within the service area of Peoples Trust, there is no real existing com-
petition betxjeen them because the three banks were sponsored by principals 
°f Peoples Trust and have been affiliated with Peoples Trust or Applicant 
since their formation. On the same basis and because the likelihood of 
disaffiliation appears to be remote, significant potential competition 
does not appear to be foreclosed by approval of the applications. Never-
theless, unconditional approval of these applications would appear to 
have an adverse competitive impact in that home office protection could 
be perpetuated in two of the three communities, Carlstadt and Hontvale, 
both of which are growing rapidly and should be attractive for future 
branch entry. Charter restrictions imposed by the New Jersey Commissioner 
°f Banking prohibit merger by the three banks for a period of five years 
from their respective dates of charter. These restrictions will expire 
1973 and 1974. However, possible anticompetitive effects of approval 
could be eliminated if home office protection were not perpetuated. Con-
sequently, approval of the applications is conditioned upon Applicant 
filing merger applications and, subject to supervisory approval, merging 
the three banks with Peoples Trust within five years of the date of 
fcbis Order so as to remove or aid in removing home office protection 
from the respective communities unless, within such five-year period, 
there is a change in Nex-; Jersey law which would accomplish the same result. 

On that basis arid after consideration of the record, the Board 
concludes that no significant adverse competitive effects are 
likely to result from approval of the applications. 
The financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and the proposed sub-
sidiaries appear to be satisfactory. Although approval of the 
aPplications is not expected to result in any significant new 
services, considerations related to convenience and needs of the 
f t ' 
communities involved as well as to financial and managerial 
resources are consistent with approval. 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the record, that 
said applications be and hereby are approved for the reasons sum-
prized above, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
B°ard or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to 
^legated authority, and 
It is further ordered, That Applicant shall file merger 
aPPlications 
and, subject to supervisory approval, merge the three 
b a n k s with Peoples Trust of New Jersey, Hackensack, New Jersey, 
Within five years of the date of this Order so as to remove or 
in removing home office protection from the respective communities 

-5- 
2 8 0 9 
unless, within such five-year period, there is a change in New Jersey 
law which would accomplish the same result. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 26, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

i; 
2 8 i o 
Item No. 7 
10/26/71 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—-FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. JJ 
PART 210--COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER 
ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Designation of Federal Reserve District for American Samoa 
* 
The Board of Governors has amended footnote 1 in 
5 210,2 by adding the words "and American Samoa" immediately 
following the word "Guam". The purpose of the amendment is to 
merican Samoa as being in or of the Twelfth Federal 
Reserve District for check collection purposes. 
Effective date: October 26, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 26, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

2811 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDHRESPDNDCNCC 
TD THE ••A W D 
November 1, 1971 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan 
President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
This is to advise you that the Board has approved 
the extension of the Twelfth District to include the Territory 
of American Samoa for check collection purposes, and that 
Regulation J will be amended to reflect this change. 
A copy of page one of Regulation J showing the neces-
sary change is attached. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Enclosure 
