MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 12, 1972 

45 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 12, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 

48 
1/12/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter to The 
State Savings Bank of West Branch, West Branch, Michigan, authorizing the 
issuance of capital notes. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Monroe County Bank, 
Dundee, Michigan, authorizing the issuance of capital notes. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to First Chicago Interna-
tional Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting consent to the 
acquisition of shares of First Chicago Servicos Ltda., a corporation being 
formed in Brazil. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency a report on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed merger of Bank of Gouverneur, Gouverneur, New York, into The St. 
Lawrence County National Bank, Canton, New York. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
Competition would be eliminated by the proposed 
merger of Bank of Gouverneur into The St. Lawrence 
County National Bank, Canton. Consummation of the 
proposal would reduce the number of banking alter-
natives in the Gouverneur area from 3 to 2 and would 
permit the resulting institution to operate 4 of 5 
banking offices in that area. Overall, the effect 
of the proposal on competition would be adverse. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on December 23, 1971, of the application of Banks of Iowa, Inc., Cedar 
Rapids, Iowa, to acquire shares of Council Bluffs Savings Bank, Council 
Bluffs, Iowa. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 

47 
1/12/72 
-3-
The Board approved unanimously the application of Lincoln First 
Banks, Inc., Rochester, New York, to acquire shares of Lincoln First/Baer 
Corporation, New York, New York, the successor to Baer Credit Corporation, 
New York, New York, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Applications of Midlantic Banks. On December 30, 1971, during a 
discussion of the proposal of Midlantic Banks, Inc., Newark, New Jersey, 
to transfer the home office of Citizens National Bank from Englewoodito 
Tenafly in connection with Midlantic's alternate application to acquire 
the latter bank, the staff was asked to prepare a report on the current 
banking structure in New Jersey. 
Subsequently, this information was made 
available in a staff memorandum dated January 10, 1972. 
At today's meeting a majority of< the Board members indicated that 
they favored approval of the application on the grounds that the proposed 
transaction would result in pro-competitive benefits and would be in the 
Public interest. 
On the other hand, Governors Robertson, Maisel, and 
Brimmer were of the opinion that consummation of the transaction would have 
an adverse effect on competition, not outweighed by any public benefits. 
The application was approved, Governors Robertson, Maisel, and 
Brimmer dissenting. 
It was understood that an order and statement reflecting 
tftat^didisioii^wbtild Becprepa'redrf oi:ihe;>Bokra-,'55:?^6n8iae'riit.'i'dn arid that'a 
X • •« ! 
s ..... ; . • 
, "... ; • 
, . ... Is 
.. •• 
. 
• ... 
, ,V ' 
dissenting statement would also be prepared. 

48 
1/12/72 
-2-
On November 26, 1971, the Board considered the application of 
Midlantic Banks, Inc., to acquire shares of Madison National Bank, Madison, 
New Jersey. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation had recommended 
approval, conditioned upon Midlanticrs commitment to merge Madison National 
into an eligible subsidiary prior to October 26, 1976. This condition 
would serve to remove home office protection from Madison in the absence of 
a change in New Jersey law which would effect the same result. Additional 
information was requested with respect to certain aspects of the proposed 
acquisition. 
This information was provided in a staff memorandum dated 
• i 
' ! I J 
• • 
. : 
, 
,1 I. i. 
_ , f ' . 
• • 
December 3, 1971. 
!;• .! ' ' us; .;;:. . v. > • 
*i ' 
•: u'-< 
\c : 
' , •"• I 
At today's meeting a question was raised regarding the length of 
time involved for the merger of Madison National into an eligible subsid-
iary. The staff stated that although they had recommended that five years 
be provided for this purpose, Midlantic had indicated its intention to 
...v.' t! W.'J H v y'U 
t. 
X'.. ;X', 
"u • u,u 
JiUVJai'V 
, } J /2 
consummate the merger within a shorter period. Discussion then developed 
that a majority of the Board favored approval of the application. 
Governor 
Robertson, however, felt that the additional services resulting from the 
proposed acquisition would not outweigh the anti-competitive effects and 
therefore he would deny the application. 
f i ; 
. . . . 
' 
The application was then approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
fci i* <T : * £ ; > 
It was understood that the order and statement reflecting the Board's deci-
sion would specify a two-year period for consummation of the merger of 
Madison National into a subsidiary. 
It was also understood that a dissenting 
statement would be prepared. 

48 
1/12/72 
-2-
Carlton Agency. 
In a memorandum dated December 16, 1971, the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the application of 
Carlton Agency, Inc., Carlton, Minnesota, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of Carlton National Bank, Carlton, Minnesota. 
The Division stated that the capital adequacy and earnings prospects of 
Carlton National were considered marginal, and that the manner in which the 
proposed acquisition had been structured would expose Carlton National to a 
potential unwarranted drain on its earnings. The Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis had also recommended denial for similar reasons. 
The Board unanimously denied the application. 
This action included 
denial of an application of Carlton Agency to acquire assets of First National 
Bank Insurance Agency, Carlton, Minnesota. 
It was understood that an appro-
priate order would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Pamphlet on Regulation X. 
In a memorandum dated January 7, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that the Board (1) 
approve publication of 1.5 million copies of a pamphlet explaining in lay-
men's terms the general provisions of margin regulations, particularly 
Regulation X, Rules Governing Borrowers Who Obtain Securities Credit, and 
(2) authorize the expenditure involved. A draft text of the pamphlet was 
attached. 
Following a brief discussion, the Board unanimously approved publi-
cation of the pamphlet and authorized the resulting expenditure. 

50 
1/12/72 
" 6" 
It was then requested that the staff look into the possibility of 
a violation of the Board's margin regulations in connection with a news-
paper story concerning a student who had effected purchases of stock and 
received confirmations on orders totaling $200,000 from several brokerage 
firms, without signing forms or paying any money. 
It was understood that 
the staff would report its findings to the Board. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Smith, 0'Connell, 
and Frederic Solomon withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. Governor Robertson reported to the 
Board on the progress being made in rehabilitating Bank of the Commonwealth, 
Detroit, Michigan, which had long been in the category of serious problem 
cases. 
It was contemplated that the bank would undertake the task of re-
structuring its capital funds with the assistance of the FDIC, which would 
agree on Monday, January 17, 1972, to acquire a maximum of $60 million of 
capital notes of the bank to replace funds exhausted by charge-offs of 
losses attributable to policies followed by management prior to active inter-
vention by the Federal Reserve and other supervisory agencies in 1970. 
It was understood that all of the necessary Board actions in rela-
tion to the current developments, including the issuance of a new cease 
and desist order, would be taken by Governor Robertson under authority 
delegated to him by the Board. 
(Note: Copies of the letter subsequently 
sent to the FDIC and a press statement containing comments of Governor 
Robertson are attached as Items 6 and 7; copies of other documentation 
relevant to the current developments have been placed in the Board's files.) 

51 
1/12/72 
-7-
Messrs. Smith, O'Connell, and Solomon then withdrew from the 
meeting and Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel Administration, 
entered. 
Staff appointment. 
The Board approved the appointment of Ralph 
C. Bryant as Director of the Division of International Finance, effective 
January 13, 1972, to succeed Robert Solomon, who would continue in his 
capacity as Adviser to the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
-9 

B O A R D G F G D V E R N D R S 
52 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O P! R E S P • N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B U A W D 
Item No. 1 
1/12/72 
January 12, 1972 
Board of Directors 
The State Savings Bank 
of West Branch 
West Branch, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $300,000 
in subordinated capital notes by The State Savings Bank of West 
Branch, West Branch, Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago as amended by Senior Vice President Morrison's 
letter of December 27, 1971, to your bank's Chairman of the 
Board Gould. This approval is given on the condition that the 
capital notes cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity 
without the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is 
granted with the understanding that the sale of these capital 
debentures will be consummated within six-months from the date 
of this letter. It is further understood that any advertising 
with respect to the obligations will, in addition to being in 
compliance with the provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, 
clearly distinguish the nature of the obligation from a deposit, 
including by setting forth in bold face type that the obligation 
is subordinated to the claims of depositors and not insured by the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

53 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/12/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 12, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Monroe County Bank 
Dundee, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3) (i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $300,000 
I n subordinated capital debentures by Monroe County Bank, Dundee, 
Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago as amended by Senior Vice President Morrison's letter of 
December 27, 1971, to Executive Vice President England of your 
bank. Approval is granted with the understanding that the sale 
°f these capital debentures will be consummated within six-months 
1:rom the da te of this letter. It is further understood that any 
advertising with respect to the obligations will, in addition to 
being in compliance with the provisions of section 217.6 of 
Regulation Q } clearly distinguish the nature of the obligation 
from a deposit, including by setting forth in bold face type that 
the obligation is subordinated to the claims of depositors and 
n°t insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
54 
Item No. 2 
1/12/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R K E S P D M O E N C E 
T D 
t h e : 
b o a r d 
January 12, 1972 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
One First National Plaza 
Chicago, Illinois 
60670 
r, 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 1, 1971, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold up to 100 per cent of the shares of 
First Chicago Servicos Ltda. ("FCS"), a corporation to be 
formed in Brazil, at a total cost of approximately $1,000, 
provided the shares are acquired within one. year from the 
date of this letter. 
This consent is granted on the condition that 
FCS acts as The First National Bank of Chicago's repre-
sentative office and confines its activities to those that 
are normal for a representative office of a United States 
bank in Brazil. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment will be made within the For-
eign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to The First 
National Bank of Chicago and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

55 
Item No. 4 
1/12/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANKS OF IOWA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Banks of Iowa, Inc., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, a bank holding 
Company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Council Bluffs Savings Bank, Council Bluffs, Iowa ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a ll comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls 3 banks with deposits of approximately 
million, representing 3.8 per cent of the total commercial bank 
^posits in the State, and is the second largest banking organization 
and bank holding company in Iowa.-^ Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
(deposits of $52 million) would increase Applicant's share of 
deposits in the State by 0.8 percentage points. 
Bank operates one office and three branches, and serves 
t^e Omaha-Council Bluffs banking market. Bank is the fourth largest 
o f 34 banking organizations serving that market with 4.2 per cent of 
y 
All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding 
c°nipany formations and acquisitions approved through December 15, 1971. 

deposits. The three larger banking organizations serving this market 
are located in Omaha, Nebraska, on the western side of the Missouri 
River which bisects the Omaha-Council Bluffs market, and control ap-
proximately 65 per cent of the total market deposits. No existing 
competition would be eliminated as this acquisition represents 
applicant's initial entry into the market, and the development of any 
meaningful competition between any of Applicant's existing subsidiaries 
and Bank appears remote in light of the distance involved, the closest 
subsidiary being 136 miles northeast of Bank's main office, and the 
State's highly restrictive branching laws. Some potential competition 
w°uld be foreclosed since Applicant could be considered a likely 
entrant into the market through de novo entry or through the acquisi-
tion of a smaller bank, and Bank could be a strong addition to a 
8®aller holding company. However, as a subsidiary of the second 
*Q*gest holding company in Iowa, Bank could readily present the needed 
competitive force against the larger Omaha-based banks that eventually 
might result in a desirable deconcentration of this market. The 
^mediate benefits of increasing competition within the market out-
W e igh the potential benefits of Applicant's entry through alternate 
^eans. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
'hat consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
Effect competition in any relevant area. Affiliation with Applicant 
W°uld increase Bank's lending capabilities through participations with 

-3-
Applicant's subsidiaries and special emphasis would be given to 
expansion of Bank's activities in computer services, trust adminis-
tration, and investment counseling. Assistance in the area of 
municipal financing and international banking would also be provided. 
.Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served lend some weight toward approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial resources 
and prospects as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank 
a r e considered satisfactory and consistent with approval. It is the 
Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tlle reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
UtUess such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ January 12, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
^ a i sel, and Brimmer: Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
G°vernor Mitchell. 
G°vernor Sheehan did not participate in the Board's action on this matter. 

58 
Item No* 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/12/72 
LINCOLN FIRST BANKS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Lincoln First/Baer Corporation 
Lincoln First Banks, Inc., Rochester, New York, Applicant, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> as amended, has applied for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) 
o f the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire 
per cent of the voting shares of Lincoln First/Baer Corporation, 
New York, New York ("Lincoln/Baer'1), the successor to Baer Credit 
Corporation ("Baer"), which is presently 100 per cent owned by Baer 
folding, A.G., Switzerland. Baer Holding, A.G., will own 49 per cent 
o f the voting-shares of Lincoln/Baer. Lincoln/Baer has no significance 
e*cept as a means to restructure the ownership of Baer Credit Corporation. 
^°tice of the application affording opportunity for interested persons 
submit comments and views was duly published (36 Federal Register 
^335 and 23273). The time for filing comments and views has expired 
j 
all received have been considered. 
Making or acquiring loans or other extensions of credit is 
a n activity that the Board has previously determined to be closely 
Elated to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). A bank holding company may 
accluire a company engaged in this activity so long as the proposed 
Requisition is consistent with the relevant factors specified in 
§ 4 (c)(8) of the Act. Lincoln/Baer, which will have assets of $6.8 million, 
conduct only the activities presently conducted by Baer, a small 

59 
-2-
commercial finance company whose major activity is non-notification 
accounts receivable financing. Baer also engages to a limited extent 
in inventory and equipment financing and in unsecured short-term inter-
national financing. These types of commercial financing are specialized, 
serving high risk customers who generally cannot obtain sufficient 
bank financing. Lincoln/Baer will not accept demand deposits and will 
engage solely in the activities described in § 225.4(a)(1) of Regulation Y. 
Accordingly, the activities to be conducted by Lincoln/Baer are closely 
related to banking. 
Applicant is the fifteenth largest banking organization in 
New York State, controlling five banks with aggregate deposits of 
billion. Baer, which operates from a single office in New York City, 
i s a small factor in its market (approximated by the Second Federal Reserve 
^strict), competing with over 50 commercial finance companies, as well as 
the commercial finance subsidiaries or departments of six area banks. 
Applicant's subsidiary banks, while located in the market area, do not 
°ffer commercial finance services of the type offered by Baer, and con-
summation of the proposal would thus have no adverse effects on competition. 
Applicant will make a capital contribution to Lincoln/Baer, 
fcbus making likely its development as a stronger competitive force than 
Ba*r. Additionally, consummation of the proposal will enable Applicant 
t o provide additional services to those of its customers who require this 
specialized type of financing and will perhaps enable Applicant to further 
develop its services in the international field. There is no evidence 

60 
-3-
in the record that the proposal would result In any undue concentration 
of 
resources, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound bank-
ing 
practices or other adverse effects on the public interest. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved and Appli-
cant is hereby permitted to engage in the activities now conducted by 
fiaer that are authorized by 12 CFR 225.4(a)(1). This determination is 
subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and 
to the Board's authority to require such modification or termination of 
the activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the 
Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and pur-
Poses of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder 
to prevent evasion thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
January 12, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell. Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sheehan. 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 / 1 2 / 7 2 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 14, 1972 
^he Honorable Prnnk Wille, 
^airman, 
federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
17th Street, No W., 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Chairman Wille: 
Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, a member State 
Bank under the supervision of the Federal Reserve System, has applied to 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for assistance unier Section 
l3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1823 (c)). 
^ a t Bank was last examined by examiners for the Feder.nl Reserve Bank of 
Chicago on March 15, 1971. In addition, the Federal Reserve Bank has 
^intained continued daily surveillance of the Bank's affairs. 
Information derived from such examination end surveillance re-
VealQ that, as a result of policies followed by Bank's management before 
August 1970, Bank has ^rave problems which have not proved susceptible to 
°°lution-without outside assistance and have become more pressing. Bank 
^curved loan looses of about $22.3 million in 1970 and 1971, principally 
Cr> assets acquired before August 1970, and is likely to incur substantial 
further losses on other assets co acquired. Bank has an investment 
account of about $246 million of municipal securities (with average 
^turity of 22.2 years, and 56% being either unrated or rated Baa) ac-
quired before that date, which at December 31, 1971, had market depre-
cNation of about $29 million and would be subject to further depreciation 
interest rates rise. Bank's substantial dependence upon short-term, 
interest-sensitive liabilities to finance long-term, fixed-interest assets 
E j e c t s Bank to the hazard of sudden increased coots which can imperil 
^ o earnings and capital position. Bank's capital of about $73.6 million 
(consisting of about $15 million capital notes, $30.4 million preferred 
Stccks $15.1 million common stock, $3.0 million surplus, $0.8 million 
^divided profits, end $9.3 million reserves) is so inadequate imd 
structured as to preclude Bank from absorbing losses which arc likely 
tc> occur in some assets and looses which would be incurred in sales of 

The Honorable 
•Frank Wills 
- 2 -
other assets (now depreciated in price), although such sales are 
accessary In order to reduce Bank's dependence upon short-term, interest-
sensitive! liabilities. In brief, Bank is seriously illiquid and urgently 
needs to strengthen and restructure its capital. 
In the circumstances, it is the opinion of the Board of 
Governors that Bank of the Coraraonwea 1th in in danger of closing, that 
the proposed assistance program is appropriate to prevent such closing, 
arid that the program will enable the Bank to effect the necessary 
restructuring of its capital and to continue as a viable institution. 
The Board consents to and approves the proposed Capital Note Agreement 
between Bank of the Commonwealth and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation and the issuance by Bank of notes in accordance with the terms 
of the Agreement. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith, 
Secretary 

Item NOo 7 
1/12/72 
For immediate release 
January 18, 1972 
J. L. Robertson, Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors 
the Federal Reserve System, today made the following comment on 
the proposed action to restructure the capital of Bank of the Cotrmon-
*ealth, Detroit, Michigan, with the assistance of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation: 
"The Board wholeheartedly approves this action to strengthen 
the capital position of Bank of the Commonwealth. As one of the 
Nation's 50 largest commercial banks, Bank of the Commonwealth plays 
a vital part in the economies of Detroit, the State of Michigan and 
the Nation generally. The approval of this action by the Bank's 
security holders will ensure a continuing vigorous role for the Bank 
in its important economic functions. 
