MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 1, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Amendment to VFCR Guidelines. 

34 g6 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, December 1, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 3:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Katz, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mrs. Junz, Assistant Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Sammons, Consultant 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
1/ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

3487 
12/1/72 
-2-
Amendment to VFCR Guidelines. Governor Brimmer recommended, 
for reasons he described in a memorandum of December 1, 1972, supple-
mented by comments at today's meeting, that the Board amend the 
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines to exempt claims on for-
eigners that may be purchased by VFCR-reporting institutions from the 
U.S. Overseas Private Investment Corporation in connection with settle-
ment of claims under insurance and guarantees by the Corporation. 
The amendment was approved unanimously. A copy of the press 
release issued in this connection is attached as Item No. 1. 
Foreign operations. The Division of International Finance 
commented on the key elements in the Report of the Task Force on 
Foreign Operations of U.S. banks. 
Governor Mitchell entered the meeting at this point and all 
staff members other than Messrs. Holland, Smith, O'Connell, and Greenspan 
withdrew. 
Art program. At the meeting on November 30, 1972, the Board 
discussed the question of a suitable recognition of the assistance 
given by Mr. Nathan Cummings in obtaining works of art for display in 
Federal Reserve buildings. A draft of resolution to be presented to 
Mr. Cummings was made available to the members of the Board at that 
time and was subsequently revised in the light of comments made. 

3488 
12/1/72 
-3-
At today's meeting the revised resolution was approved. Gover-
nor Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the resolution is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
12/1/72 
For immediate release 
December X, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today the adoption of an amendment to exempt from the 
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint guideline ceilings foreign assets 
acquired in connection with settlement of claims under insurance and 
guarantees of the U.S. Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC). 
Without the amendment, the purchase of euch foreign assets by U.S, banks 
and other IKS. financial institutions would have been subject to guide-
line ceilings, even though no new capital outflow would have resulted* 
The rimendments are to add to the guidelines, as both 
Sections I.I~B~4 and IXI-E-7, the following: 
''jfaauranco and Guaranty Settlements of OPIC 
A foreign asset acquired directly or through purchase of a 
participation in a pool of foreign assets, provided the foreign asset 
or the participation is covered by a payment guarantee issued by the 
U.S, Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) under its insurance 
and guaranty claims settlement authority, is exempted from an insti-
tution's ceiling," 

F E • E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
B r J A K J G F G G V E K N D R 5 
WASHINGTON. C. C". 20SSI 
c F r e : 
Item No. 2 
12/1/72 
RESOLUTION 
Whereas NATHAN CuMMINGS has encouraged an interest: in the 
arts in the Federal. Reserve. System; and 
Wheress NATHAN CUMMIKGS has considered and has encouraged 
Arts, and 
Whereas the Board desires to acknowledge and record its 
appreciation for these actions: 
Thereupon, upon vote duly taken, it was RESOLVED: 
(1) That a plaque shall be installed in a suitable place ir. the 
visitors' room at. the. Federal Reserve Building, Washington, B.C. that, 
shall be inscribed as follows: 
(2) That the Chairman of the Board shall convey to NATHAN CUKHIKCS 
a copy of this resolution in appreciation of his efforts for the System. 
December 1, 1972 
others to consider the Federal Reserve System as a repository for Fine 
"In recognition of the efforts of NATHAN CUNNINGS 
in advancing the interest of the arts in the 
Federal Reserve System," 
M 
II 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur 1« . Burns. Chairman 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
