Minutes for 
April 3 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advi 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1258 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 3, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
M r . Shepardson 
M r . Mitchell 
M r . Daane 
M r . Maisel 
M r . Brimmer 
M r . Sherman, Secretary 
M r . Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Broida, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
M r . Holland, Adviser to the Board 
M r . Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
M r . Molony, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
M r . Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Smith, 
Eckert, Wernick, Ettin, Fisher, Gehman, 
Rosenblatt, Thompson, and Trueblood of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Reynolds, Baker, 
Bryant, Dunn, Emery, Gekker, Gemmill, Maroni, 
Mills, and Pizer of the Division of 
International Finance 
Economic review. Staff members of the Research and International 
Divisions reviewed developments related to the U.S. balance of payments 
position, selected international financial matters, and economic and 
financial trends in the domestic economy. The presentations were based 

1259 
4/3/67 
-2-
in part on materials that had been distributed in preparation for 
tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, and copies 
of the relevant materials have been placed in the Committee's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
Research Divisions (except M r . Sammons) and Messrs. Broida and Morgan 
withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 
M r . Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Miss Hart and M r . Via, Senior Attorneys, Legal Division 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following items, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective numbers indicated, were 
approved unanimously after consideration of background material that 
had been made available to the Board and clarification of points of 
information about which members of the Board inquired: 
Item No. 
Letter to Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, 
1 
Georgia, approving the establishment of a 
branch at 3300 Northside Parkway, N.W. 
Letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
2 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Seoul, Korea. 
Letter to Bankers International Corporation, 
3 
New York, New York, granting consent to an 
additional capital increase by the bank's 
wholly-owned subsidiary, Bankers International 
(Luxembourg), and to purchase of the additional 
shares by Bankers International Corporation. 

i 258 
4/3/67 
-3-
Messrs. Sammons and Dahl then withdrew from the meeting. 
Application of State Bank of Albany (Items 4 and 5). There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on March 20, 1967, of the application of State Bank of Albany, 
Albany, New York, to merge The Emerson National Bank of Warrensburgh, 
Warrensburg, New York. 
Several members of the Board commented favorably on a procedure, 
in merger negotiations, under which the bank to be merged solicited 
tenders from several banks. Since three banks had been invited to sub-
mit offers in the present case, it was suggested that comment in the 
Board's statement concerning that procedure might serve a useful purpose. 
Mr. Via replied that while reference to this point in some 
statement of the Board might be appropriate, this case appeared not to 
present the best opportunity. 
The solicitations had been undertaken by 
the executor of the dominant shareholder's estate presumably in order 
to satisfy the probate court. 
With this explanation, the Board agreed that it would be pre-
ferable to await a more appropriate opportunity for comment on the fore-
going point, and issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 4 and 5. 
Messrs. Egertson and Via then withdrew from the meeting. 
Report by Governor Maisel. Governor Maisel gave a brief report 
on conversations he had had last week with a number of Government 

1259 
4/3/67 
-4-
securities dealers and other market participants. In terms of the 
discount rate, those with whom he had talked were clearly of the view 
that there would be a severe market reaction if there should be no 
change in the rate. If the discount rate were reduced by 1/2 of a 
percentage point, all agreed that such action would be looked upon as 
an indication of the System's desire for further ease. Some felt that 
such a move would occasion market reaction; others felt that the move 
had been largely discounted. If the discount rate should be reduced 
by 1/4 of a point, all agreed that such action would be construed as a 
cautionary move reflecting fear of future inflation and therefore an 
unwillingness to move strongly. It might be interpreted as amounting 
in effect to some reversal of System policy reflected in the recent 
reserve requirement reduction and in open market operations. Some of 
those with whom he had talked thought that such an announcement would 
have no appreciable market impact, but at least half thought it would 
have the effect of nudging interest 
rates back up. As he read the 
staff documentation prepared for tomorrow's Open Market Committee meet-
ing, it seemed to him that the staff was somewhat more optimistic in 
terms of the market being willing to accept a 1/4 point reduction in 
the discount rate. 
Governor Maisel also reported that several bankers with whom he 
talked indicated that they had been paying more for CD's than they were 
believed to be worth in order to have assurance of ample availability 

1259 
4/3/67 
-5-
of funds over the April 15 tax date. If pressures over the period were 
not severe, it appeared that a change in banker attitudes toward CD's 
could be expected quite promptly. 
Regulation R matter. Mr. Shay reported that a letter of March 31 
had been received from Discount Corporation, New York, New York, request-
ing that the Board amend its Regulation R (Relationships with Dealers in 
Securities under Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933) to permit securi-
ties firms having interlocking relations with banks to underwrite, 
distribute, and otherwise deal in State tax anticipation notes bearing a 
maturity of not more than thirteen months. Representatives of Discount 
Corporation had met with members of the Board's staff prior to the Board 
meeting this morning to discuss this request and to urge prompt action 
by the Board in order that, if the decision was favorable, they might 
indicate by Wednesday, April 5, their ability to participate in a syndi-
cate to underwrite a forthcoming issue of New York State tax anticipation 
notes. 
Mr. Shay recalled that in November 1965 the Board amended Regula-
tion R to allow interlocking relationships between member banks and 
securities firms when the latter's underwriting activities were confined 
to an expanded list of securities that the banks themselves might under-
write. However, the expanded list did not include general obligations 
of States and political subdivisions thereof. The principal reasons for 
retaining that restriction were (1) that the Comptroller of the Currency 

1259 
4/3/67 
-6-
had issued a ruling including revenue bonds in the category of "general" 
obligations, and (2) the quality of State and municipal issues was not 
uniformly high. The possibility existed that an interlocking relation-
ship between a bank and a securities firm handling lower-quality obli-
gations might influence imprudent investment in such issues by the bank 
or its customers. The issue now presented was whether the Board wished 
to consider a further relaxing of Regulation R and, if so, whether it 
would be appropriate to review again the whole matter of State and 
municipal obligations rather than to confine attention to the limited 
category of securities that was embodied in Discount Corporation's 
request. 
After discussion, it was agreed that a background memorandum 
from the staff was essential before considering the substantive issues 
involved, and the matter was deferred pending receipt of such a document. 
Regulation T matter. Governor Maisel reported that while in New 
York last week he had received comment from one of the dealers with whom 
he visited that Regulation T (Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members of 
National Securities Exchanges) was purportedly being violated frequently, 
at least if the interpretation of that regulation by one prominent New 
York law firm was correct. An example cited was the assistance given by 
Lehmann Brothers to Ling-Temco-Vought, Inc., in connection with its acqui-
sition of the Wilson Company. It was maintained that if this and similar 
transactions did not contravene the prohibitions contained in Regulation T, 
then the regulation was poorly written and should be clarified. 

1259 
4/3/67 
-7-
Miss Hart noted that the Securities and Exchange Commission had 
responsibility for enforcing Regulation T and dealing with violations, 
and it was understood that she would inquire whether complaints such as 
mentioned by Governor Maisel had come to the Commission's attention. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
On March 31, 1967, 
Governor Shepardson approved on behalf of 
the Board a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco (copy attached as 
Item No. 6) approving the appointment of 
Thomas J. Maple as assistant examiner. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on 
behalf of the Board a letter to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas (copy 
attached as Item No. 7) approving the 
appointment of Johnny R . Costner as 
assistant examiner. 

1 2 8 3 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Of GOV^V • 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
4/3/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
>f«AL 
Rt^V* 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Trust Company of Georgia, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Trust Company of 
Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, of a branch at 3300 Northside 
Parkway, N . W . , Atlanta, Georgia, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E . Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

1264 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R B 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
4/3/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
a d d r e s s 
o f f i c i a l 
c o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1967. 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association, San Francisco, California, pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in 
the City of Seoul, Republic of Korea, and to operate and maintain 
such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regula-
tion M . 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1968, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for busi-
ness, furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Seoul. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the 
form of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded 
as foreign assets for purposes of the voluntary foreign credit re-
straint effort. 
Very truly yours, 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank 
stated that the Board also had 
approved a six-month extension 
(Signed) Karl E . Bakke 
of the period allowed to establish 
£ 
B a k k e 
the branch; and that if an extension A s s i s t a n t ' S e c r e t ; r y . 
should be requested, the procedure 
prescribed in the Board's letter of 
November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should 
be followed.) 

1265 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4 / 3 / 6 7 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
H O A R D 
••f^URtsvV 
April 3, 1967. 
Bankers International Corporation, 
280 Park Avenue. 
New York, New York 0 
Gentlemen: 
This will acknowledge your letter of February 24, 1967, 
referring to the Board's letter of May 6, 1966, which, in part, 
granted consent for Bankers International (Luxembourg)("BILSA"), 
your wholly-owned subsidiary, to increase its capital to Belgian 
Francs 200,000,000 (US$4,000,000 equivalent), consisting of 
200,000 shares, par value Belgian Francs 1,000 per share; for 
your Corporation to purchase and hold 100,000 additional shares 
of BILSA, at a cost of approximately US$2,000,000; and, for your 
Corporation to transfer to BILSA up to approximately US$500,000 
as a contribution to capital. 
You state that at the stockholders meeting of November 15, 
1966, the capital of BILSA was increased to Belgian Francs 220,000,000 
(US$4,400,000) and that the total number of shares of BILSA became 
220,000 rather than 200,000. 
Therefore, your Corporation purchased 
120,000 additional shares at a cost of approximately US$2,400,000. 
In the circumstances, the Board of Governors grants con-
sent to the additional capital increase of BILSA and the purchase 
°f the additional shares by your Corporation which utilized US$400,000 
of the proposed contribution to capital. 
Very truly yours, 
* 
' 
, I 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
KSrl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 2 G 6 
Item No. 4 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
4/3/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
-
In the Matter of the Application of ' 
STATE BANK OF ALBANY
 
1 
for approval of merger with 
' 
The Emerson National Bank of 
' 
Warrensburgh 
*' 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1828(c), Public Law 89-356), an 
application by State Bank of Albany, Albany, New York, a State member 
bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of 
the merger of that bank and The Emerson National Bank of Warrensburgh, 
Warrensburg, New York, under the charter and title of State Bank of 
Albany. 
As an incident to the merger, the two offices of The Emerson 
National Bank of Warrensburgh would become branches of the resulting 
bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has 
* 
been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

zihd the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
. C \ 
proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D . C # , this 3rd 
day of April, 1967, 
By order of the Board of Governors• 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, 
and Governors Shepardson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Hartin. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) ilerritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

* 14 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
Item No. 5 
4/3/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY STATE BANK OF ALBANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE EMERSON NATIONAL BANK OF WARRENSBURGH 
STATEMENT 
» 
State Bank of Albany, Albany, New York ("State Bank"), with 
n v. 
total deposits of about $556 million, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(c), as amended by Public Law 89-356), for 
the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank xri.th The Emerson 
National Bank of Warrensburgh, Warrensburg, Nev; York ("Emerson National"), 
which has total deposits of about $11 million."^ The banks would merge 
under the charter and name of State Bank, which is a member of the 
Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, the two offices 
of Emerson National would become branches of State Bank, increasing 
2/ 
the number of its offices to 30. 
Competition. - The main office of Emerson National is in 
3/ 
Warren County (population 44,000)" at Warrensburg (population 2,300), 
approximately 70 miles north of Albany (population 130,000), which is 
the site of the head office of State Bank. Emerson National operates 
l/Figures are as of June 30, 1966. 
y Includes one authorized branch that has not yet opened. 
if 1960 census figures. 

i 2 r > 9 
a branch at Lake Luzerne, about 18 miles south of Uarrensburg. The 
20 banking offices in Warren County are operated by five locally head-
quartered banks, of which Emerson National is the third largest. It 
does not appear that any of the remaining offices would be adversely 
affected by the merger of State Bank and Emerson National. 
State Bank operates 28 offices in 23 communities situated 
in 11 of the 15 counties that comprise the Fourth Banking District of 
New York. With 25 per cent of the total deposits and 20 per cent of 
the deposits of individuals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC" 
deposits), State Bank ranks second in size among the 41 commercial 
banks headquartered in the Fourth Banking District. Emerson National 
holds about 1 per cent of the total deposits, and of the IPC deposits, 
in the Fourth Banking District. National Commercial Bank & Trust 
Company, headquartered in Albany, is the largest Fourth District bank, 
holding 27 per cent of the total deposits and 24 per cent of the IPC 
deposits. In the past 10 years, State Bank has acquired total deposits 
of about $87 million through six mergers, the latest being its acquisi-
4/ „ 
tion of The First National Bank of Cario in 1964. 
The nearest office of State Bank to Emerson National is its 
branch in Saratoga County (adjacent to Warren County) at Saratoga Springs, 
about 21 miles south of Lake Luzerne. State Bank derives well under 
i 
, 
5/ 
1
 Per cent of its loans, and of its IPC deposits, from the service area-
Q f
 Emerson National. Emerson National obtains about 5 per cent and 7 per 
Fed. Res. Bulletin 1416 (1964). 
5/ The area from which a bank obtains 75 per cent or more of its deposits 
o f
 individuals, partnerships, and corporations. 

-3- 
1270 
cent, respectively, of its IPC deposits and loans from the service area 
of State Bank. It does not appear that meaningful competition would 
develop between the two banks if they did not merge, although State lav; 
permits a bank, subject to a home-office-protection feature, to branch 
de novo in the State Banking District in which it is located. In view 
of the small size of Emerson National, it seems unlikely that it would 
branch beyond its present service area. The home-office-protection 
restriction would preclude State Bank from establishing a new branch 
in the more significant Warren County communities with the exception 
of Lake George, which is seven miles southeast of Warrensburg, However, 
the largest bank in Warren County already operates a branch in Lake 
' « 
. 
\ 
George, a community with a 1960 population of 1,026, In addition, a 
merger application filed with the Board would, if approved, open North 
Creek 
to de novo branching, but that community is 19 miles northwest 
Of Warrensburg. Emerson National is the only bank headquartered in 
Warrensburg,and its merger with State Bank would open the community to 
novo branching. 
The effect of the merger on competition would not be signifi-
cantly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects, - The 
banking 
factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to merge 
Q
re satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities, - The only 
significant effect of the merger on banking convenience and needs would 
in the area served by Emerson National, which includes several Warren 

County communities but consists principally of Warrensburg, Lake Luzernea 
and Lake George. Resort activities dominate the local economy, and the 
area's population nearly triples during the summer months; off-season 
facilities, catering to hunters and skiers, are also enjoying some 
success. Residential construction, consisting mainly of vacation homes 
convertible to year-round occupancy, is at a high level. A new inter-
state highway providing improved access promises to contribute to the 
area's growth. 
f® 
••'.,.; . 
• • 
' 
^ 
• 
... 
. _.. 
. . 
... " • 
.. 
. ' . ,' 
. • • ' . • . 
t 
t 
. 
• 
t 
Because of its low lending limit and lack of loanable funds, 
Emerson National is unable to meet the credit needs of the area it 
serves. The bank's loans equal more than 70 per cent of its deposits. 
As of June 30, 1966, Emerson National had about ninety loans in its 
portfolio which it originated and in which other banks were partici-
pating. The original amount of these loans was nearly $4 million and 
Emerson National was able to retain about one-third. The ability of 
Emerson National to meet local credit needs is also impaired to some 
degree by the heavy dependence of the area it serves on resort activity; 
the bank recognizes that there is a limit to the extent that it can 
Prudently concentrate its loan portfolio in credit dependent on a single 
kind of local business. 
The replacement of Emerson National by offices of State Bank, 
v,
ith its larger lending limit, would provide an adequate and convenient 
source of credit for the area now served by Emerson National, which 
u
°uld probably enhance the development of the local economy. In making 
!oan funds available, State Bank would not be dependent on the volume 

- 5 -
of deposits derived from the local area and its more diversified loan 
portfolio would enable the bank to cope readily with area credit needs 
despite the predominance of resort activity. In addition, State Bank 
would offer a broad range of other banking services, many of which are 
not now conveniently available to the customers of Emerson National. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
proposed merger would benefit the banking convenience and needs of the 
area served by Emerson National, and would not result in any signifi-
cantly adverse consequences for banking competition. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
A
Pril 3, 1967. 

L>Cs 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 6 
F E D E R i A O R t & t R V r ' S V a T E M
 
4 / 3 / 6 7 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
•
 1
J •'<>. •: »
 ;
 
I'j Y '_»
 5 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1967 
Mr. Irwin L . Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear M r . Jennings: 
; '. ;".. ,-.v L' : 
V;. l\; • ;vt ,.: , 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of March 29, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Thomas J. Maple as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, effective 
today. 
V • 
' !!. ' 
\ . 
' r- 
t . I ' 
It is noted that Mr. Maple owns some shares 
of stock of the Grant County Bank, John Day,^Oregon. 
Accordingly, the Board's approval of the appointment 
of Mr. Maple is given with the understanding that he 
will dispose of the stock no later than 30 days from 
today's date. 
r> y 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
A.-.; 'j"x ••>' • 
t> • 
5. 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1274 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• p THE 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4 / 3 / 6 7 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 4, 1967 
Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of March 30, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Johnny R. Costner as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Please advise 
the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
