Minutes for June 4, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Off ice of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject referred 
to below: 
Page 5 Amendment to Supplement to Regulation V, 
Loan Guarantees for Defense Production. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. 
If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1703 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 4, 1970. 
The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. 0'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Allied Bank International. 
Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to Allied Bank International, New York, New York, approving 

1704 
6/4/70 
-2-
(1) an increase in its paid-in capital stock and (2) an amendment to 
its articles of association. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
Waccamaw Corporation. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated May 28, 1970, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of The Waccamaw 
Corporation, Whiteville, North Carolina, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to American 
Bank & Trust Company, Monroe, North Carolina, which would be in addition 
to those of one bank al ready held. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Opinion of Accounting Principles Board. 
In a memorandum dated 
May 26, 1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed the 
proposed Opinion of the Accounting Principles Board of the American 
Institute of Certified Public Accountants limiting the application of 
'pooling" accounting for business combinations. Among other features, 
the proposal would permit the inclusion of "goodwill" as an asset, sub-
ject to mandatory amortization over a period not to exceed 40 years. 
The Division recommended that the Board not make public comment on the 
Proposed Opinion at the present time. 
After discussion the recommendation of the Division was accepted, 
°n understanding that staffs of the regulatory agencies would continue to 

170 
6/4/70 
-3-
study developments in connection with the proposed Opinion, which was 
believed likely to be modified in view of the controversy it had engen-
dered and that the subject was also being followed by the Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation. 
Appeal from hearing examiner's ruling. A memorandum from the 
Legal Division dated May 18, 1970, had been distributed relating to a 
request for permission to appeal a hearing examiner's ruling made by 
the National Association of Insurance Agents, et_ al_. , which had sought 
to intervene in a hearing held pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act regarding the proposed acquisition of shares in 
two insurance agency companies by The First National Bancorporation, 
Inc., Denver, Colorado. Attached to the memorandum was a proposed order 
and statement that would reflect the Division's recommendation that the 
Board grant the request and order that the hearing be reconvened for the 
purpose of affording the National Association of Insurance Agents, et al 
an opportunity to renew their motion to be made parties to the hearing. 
The recommendation was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as 
issued, are attached under Item No. 2. 
Testimony on credit cards. A draft had been distributed of a 
statement relating to developments in the bank credit card field to be 
presented by Governor Brimmer on June 10, 1970, before the House Select 
Committee on Small Business. 

r ? m 
6/4/70 
-4-
The scope and content of the proposed statement was regarded 
as generally satisfactory. 
However, there was agreement with a sugges-
tion by Mr. Smith that it would seem advisable to omit a portion of 
the draft dealing with the question whether the possession of bank credit 
cards had, as sometimes alleged, led many persons into overspending and 
contributed to consumer bankruptcies. 
Governor Maisel suggested the inclusion of some expression of 
concern about the concentration of the bank credit card business into 
two major systems, with potential implications from the standpoint of 
competition. 
It was noted that these were interchange systems and were 
not necessarily restrictive in terms of competition in local markets. 
However, it was understood that this suggestion would be given considera-
tion in the further drafting of the testimony, the consensus being that 
a carefully worded comment might be appropriate if it did not indicate 
that a major problem currently existed. 
It was also understood, in light of a suggestion originally 
made by Governor Robertson, that consideration would be given to including 
in the statement some stronger expression of the Board's perception of 
the need to continue to maintain a close watch over developments in the 
bank credit card field generally. 
Subject to these understandings, and with the further understand-
ing that such additional suggestions as members of the Board might have 
would be transmitted direct to the staff, it was agreed that the state-
ment would be presented in a final form satisfactory to Governor Brimmer. 

1707 
6/4/70 
-5-
(Note: A copy of the statement in final form is being placed in the 
Board's files.) 
Equal Employment Opportunity. 
Reports on their individual 
programs as of September 1969 had been submitted by the Federal Reserve 
Banks to the Conference of Presidents' Subcommittee on Equal Employment 
Opportunity and subsequently made available to the Board. 
In a memo-
randum dated May 28, 1970, Mr. Holland reviewed those reports against 
the background of the 10-point program adopted by the Conference of 
Presidents--and concurred in by the Board--in December 1968. He recom-
mended that a letter (draft attached) be sent to the Presidents of the 
Reserve Banks urging implementation of the equal employment opportunity 
programs at all levels of supervision and development of positive plans 
of action along the lines prescribed by the Civil Service Commission 
for Government agencies and by the Treasury Department for depositary 
banks. 
During discussion there was general agreement that a shift in 
emphasis to the development of action plans was appropriate at this time. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the letter to the Federal 
Reserve Banks, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 3. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Hexter, 
Farrell, and Massey (Bank Operations) then withdrew. 
Regulation V. Mr. Holland reported that a high-level inter-
agency advisory group, including Chairman Burns, had met to consider 

1708 
6/4/70 
-6-
policy implications involved in the making of a $250 million loan by 
a consortium of banks to the Penn Central Railroad in the form of a 
V-loan that would be fully guaranteed, probably by one of the guaran-
teeing agencies within the Defense Department. 
This loan would be 
made at the prime commercial bank rate. A final Government decision 
had not yet been reached, but was expected shortly. 
In this connection, Mr. Holland said, it had been noted that 
the Supplement to Regulation V, Loan Guarantees for Defense Production, 
as amended October 27, 1969, provides that a guaranteeing agency may 
from time to time prescribe a rate of interest higher than 7-1/2 per 
cent if it determines a loan to be necessary in financing an essential 
defense production contract. 
In this case no defense production contract 
was involved, but the underlying statute (the Defense Production Act of 
1950, as amended) contained language which would permit a broadening of 
the language of the Supplement to Regulation V. 
The type of amendatory language that appeared appropriate was 
then suggested, and agreement was expressed. 
Accordingly, an amendment to the Supplement to Regulation V for 
the purpose mentioned was approved unanimously effective June 4, 1970, 
with the understanding, however, that it would not be transmitted to 
the Federal Register for publication until such time as it was determined 
by the Vice Chairman that this would be appropriate in the light of the 
interagency discussions currently taking place and their eventual outcome. 

1709 
6/^/70 
-7-
Note: As amended, subsection (a) of section 7 of Regulation V 
(the Supplement) read as follows: 
(a) Maximum rate of interest. The maximum interest rate charged 
a borrower by a financing institution with respect to a guaranteed loan 
shall not exceed 7-1/2 per cent per annum, except that the agency guaran-
teeing a particular loan may from time to time prescribe a higher rate 
if it determines the loan to be necessary for the purpose of financing 
any contractor, subcontractor, or other person in connection with the 
performance of any contract or other operation deemed by the guarantee-
ing agency to be necessary to expedite production and deliveries or 
services under Government contracts for the procurement of materials or 
the performance of services for the national defense. 
Cleveland officer salaries. Governor Mitchell reported receipt 
of a telephone call from President Hickman of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland with regard to a proposal that would involve assigning to 
two officers of the Bank titles not commonly used by the Reserve Banks, 
with concurrent salary adjustment. 
It had been left, Governor Mitchell 
said, that President Hickman would present the matter to the Board for 
consideration by letter. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon then 
withdrew. 
One-bank holding companies. 
Governor Sherrill reported that a 
staff task force was studying the impact on the Board's operations of 
the enactment of pending one-bank holding company legislation and had 
developed a series of projects that might be undertaken. 
These would be 
made available to members of the Board for review and suggestions, and 
the members could expect to be visited by Mr. Holland or Mr. Shull in 
this regard. 

1710 
6/4/70 
-8-
Special program. Upon recommendation of Governor Sherrill, 
the Board approved a budget overexpenditure of about $6,000, including 
salary, per diem, and travel costs, to permit participation this year 
in the National Urban League's Summer Fellowship Program. 
Officer appointment. 
Upon recommendation of Governor Sherrill, 
the Board approved the appointment of Henry W. Meetze as Assistant 
Director of the Division of Data Processing, effective June 8, 1970, 
with salary at the rate of $23,900 per annum. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
1711 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
6/4/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 4, 1970. 
Allied Bank International, 
P. 0. Box 3076;, , 
Church Street Station, 
New York, New York. 
10008 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 18, 1970, 
the Board of Governors approves an increase in the paid-in 
capital stock of your Corporation from $25,500,000 to 
$27,000,000. 
It is understood that the additional paid-in 
shares will be purchased by First Hawaiian Bank, Honolulu, 
Hawaii. 
It is also understood that the purchase price of 
the shares will increase your paid-in surplus by $748,583. 
Accordingly, the Board also approves amendments 
to Article TENTH of your Corporation^ Articles of Associa-
tion to include the name of the new stockholder. 
As you are aware, Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act requires that an increase in issued and out-
standing capital stock be fully paid in within 90 days 
after the date of this letter. 
Very truly your <5 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

171Z 
Item No. 2 
6/4/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Applications, 
Pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, by 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANC0RP0RATI0N, INC., 
Denver, Colorado, 
for determinations as to Diversified Insurance, 
Inc. and Guaranty Insurors, Inc., proposed 
nonbank subsidiaries. 
ORDER DISPOSING OF REQUEST FOR PERMISSION 
TO APPEAL FROM RULING ON MOTION TO INTERVENE 
Pursuant to an Order of the Board, dated October 31, 1969, 
notice of which was published on November 7, 1969 (34 Federal Register 
18070), a hearing was held in Denver, Colorado, on December 11, 1969, 
before a duly selected and designated hearing examiner, on applica-
tions filed by The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, 
Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for determinations that 
the insurance agency activities planned to be undertaken by its 
Proposed subsidiaries, Diversified Insurance, Inc. and Guaranty 
Insurors, Inc., are of the kind described in section 4(c)(8) of the 
fiank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. § 1843(c)(8)) and 
section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR § 222.4(a)), 
DOCKET NOS » 
BHC - 100 
BHC - 101 

1713 
so as to make it unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4(a) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. § 1843(a)), respecting the ownership or control 
of voting shares ih nonbanking companies, to apply in order to 
carry out the purposes of the Act. 
At the outset of the hearing, the National Association of 
Insurance Agents, Inc., the Colorado Insurors Association, Inc., 
and Mr. Jack Miller, doing business as the Jack Miller Agency, 
("Intervenors"), appeared by counsel and filed a motion, pursuant to 
section 263.10(a) of the Board's Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings 
(12 CFR § 263.10(a)), requesting that the hearing examiner rule that 
they were entitled as of right to be admitted as parties to the 
proceeding. The merits of the motion were discussed with the hearing 
examiner and argued by counsel for the Intervenors, by counsel for 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., and by Board counsel. 
Thereafter, and under circumstances described in the Statement that 
accompanies this Order, the Intervenors withdrew from the hearing and, 
by counsel, filed with the Board, pursuant to section 263.10(e) of 
the Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings (12 CFR § 263.10(e)), a 
request for special permission to appeal from the ruling of the hearing 
examiner which, it is averred, denied their motion to be made parties 
to the proceeding. 
For the reasons set forth in the Statement that accompanies 
this Order, 

1 7 1 4 
-3-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the request for special permission 
to appeal is granted, and that the hearing be reconvened, at a time and 
Place to be determined by the hearing examiner, but as soon as practi-
cable, for the purpose of affording the Interveners an opportunity to 
renew their motion to be made parties, and for further proceedings not 
inconsistent with the Board's Statement. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 4, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1 7 1 5 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
* 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REQUEST BY NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE AGENTS, ET AL., 
FOR PERMISSION TO APPEAL FROM RULING ON MOTION TO INTERVENE IN HEARING 
RE TWO PROPOSED NONBANKING SUBSIDIARIES OF FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION 
STATEMENT 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado 
('Applicant"), a bank holding company within the meaning of 
section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
§ 1841(a)), filed requests for determinations by the Board that 
the insurance agency activities planned to be undertaken by its 
Proposed subsidiaries, Diversified Insurance, Inc. and Guaranty 
Insurors, Inc., are of the kind described in section 4(c)(8) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. § 1843(c)(8)) and section 222.4(a) of the Board's 
Regulation Y (12 CFR §222.4(a)), so as to make it unnecessary for 
t he prohibitions of section 4(a) of the Act (12 U.S.C. § 1843(a)), 
respecting the ownership or control of voting shares in nonbanking 
companies, to apply in order to carry out the purposes of the Act. 
° n October 31, 1969, the Board ordered that a hearing be held on 
the aforesaid requests, notice of which was published in the 
Register on November 7, 1969 (34 Federal Register 18070). 
Pursuant to the aforesaid order and notice, a hearing 
W a s held in Denver, Colorado, on December 11, 1969, before a duly 

-ii-
1716 
selected and designated hearing examiner. At the outset of the 
hearing, the National Association of Insurance Agents, Inc. 
("National Association"), the Colorado Insurors Association, Inc. 
("Colorado Association"), and Mr. Jack Miller, doing business as 
the Jack Miller Agency ("Miller Agency"), (sometimes hereinafter 
referred to collectively as "Intervenors"), appeared by counsel 
and filed a motion, pursuant to section 263.10(a) of the Board's 
Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings (12 CFR § 263.10(a)) ("Rules 
of Practice"), requesting that the hearing examiner rule that they 
were entitled as of right to be admitted as parties to the proceed-
ing. The merits of the motion were discussed with the hearing 
examiner and argued by counsel for the Intervenors, by counsel 
for the Applicant, and by Board counsel. Thereafter, and under 
circumstances described hereinafter, the Intervenors withdrew from 
the hearing and, by counsel, filed with the Board, pursuant to 
section 263.10(e) of the Rules of Practice (12 CFR § 263.10(e)), 
a request for special permission to appeal from the ruling of 
the hearing examiner which, it is averred, denied their motion to 
be made parties to the proceeding. 
The Board's Rules of Practice do not favor interim appeals 
from rulings by hearing examiners. However, interim review is 
appropriate where, as here, the allegation is that the hearing 
examiner erred in refusing to admit persons as parties, each of whom 
claims he is ". . . entitled as of right to be admitted as a party 

i * t" Within the meaning of section 263.2(c) the Rules of Practice 
(12 CFR § 263.2(c)). Failure to resolve the issue at this juncture 
could result in the necessity for a hearing de novo. Accordingly, 
the Board concludes that the request for special permission to appeal 
should be granted. Further, for the reasons discussed hereinafter, 
the Board concludes that the Intervenors should be granted leave 
to renew their motion before the hearing examiner.^ 
Right of intervention. - Determinations under section 4(c)(8) 
of the Act are required to be made by the Board "after due notice and 
hearing, and on the basis of the record made at such hearing . . . ." 
The provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act relating to cases 
of "adjudication required by statute to be determined on the record 
after an opportunity for an agency hearing" direct the agency to give 
"interested parties" an opportunity for "the submission and consider-
ation of facts, arguments, offers of settlement, or proposals of 
adjustment when time, the nature of the proceeding, and the public 
interest permit". 5 U.S.C. § 554(a), (c)(1). The Administrative 
Procedure Act does not define "interested parties". 
y As the record now stands, the Applicant has put in its evidence, 
and its witnesses have been cross-examined by Board counsel. Should 
the Intervenors be made parties, it appears that cross-examination 
by their counsel of the Applicant's witnesses ought to proceed on 
the basis of the transcript and other components of the record; put 
another way, it does not appear that any useful purpose would be 
served by requiring that exhibits and testimony now in the record 
b e offered anew (although the Intervenors ought to have an oppor-
tunity to show the contrary if they so desire). However, the 
intervenors ought to be permitted to state for the hearing examiner's 
c°nsideration any objections they may have to the admissibility of 
the evidence now in the record. 

-4-
1718 
Also apposite here is section 9 of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. § 1848), which provides, in part: "Any party aggrieved by 
an order of the Board under this Act may obtain a review of such order 
in the United States Court of Appeals . . . 
(Emphasis added.) 
Section 9 relates, of course, to standing to obtain judicial review 
of a Board order; the provision does not, by its terms, purport to be 
dispositive of the question, who has a right to intervene at a hearing 
under the Act. There is authority for the view, however, that, when 
a statute such as section 9 is applicable, a person who might be 
"aggrieved" by an agency order, such as a competitor (and trade associa-
tion of competitors) of an applicant, is entitled to intervene at the 
hearing, since, otherwise, "judicial review, which may be had only by 
a party to the proceedings . . . who has been 'aggrieved' . . . , could 
be denied or unduly forestalled by the . . . [agency] merely by denying 
intervention." National Coal Association v. Federal Power Commission, 
2/ 
191 F.2d 462, 467 (D. C. Cir. 1 9 5 1 ) F u r t h e r , there is authority 
for the view that where there is no statute, such as section 9, provid-
ing for judicial review by a "party aggrieved", but the applicable 
statute entitles a "person aggrieved or whose interests are adversely 
affected" to judicial review, then ". . . fairness requires that one 
2/ "Probably the reason for the scantiness of [case law] authority 
Ton the question whether standing to obtain judicial review carries 
with it the right of intervention] is that agencies almost always 
allow intervention by those entitled to obtain [judicial] review." 
1 Davis, Administrative Law § 8.11 at 567 (1958). 

1719 
-5 
with such a recognized interest in the outcome of the agency proceeding 
must be permitted to participate in it from the outset." That is to 
say, " . . . intervention is necessary in order to make the right to 
review effective." American Communications Association v. United States, 
298 F.2d 648, 650 (2d Cir. 1962). 
On the other hand, it is argued that " . . . there is no 
logically necessary relationship between the right to an administrative 
hearing and a right to appeal." Jaffe, Judicial Control of Administrative 
Action 524 (1965). 
Does standing to appeal necessarily imply a right to an 
administrative hearing? It will be said that a right to 
appeal to be "effective" implies a right to make or partici-
pate in making the administrative record. No doubt a right 
to participate at the administrative level increases the 
effective scope of the right to appeal, but the right to 
attack an order resting on a record made by others, or on 
no record at all, could be valuable. 
It would have precisely 
the virtue, if that virtue were being sought, of expanding 
the class of potential public champions to attack "obviously" 
invalid orders without a similar expansion of the administra-
tive process. But if the relaxation of standing requirements 
does not necessarily expand the number and scope of adminis-
trative hearings, recent experience demonstrates that almost 
inevitably it does have that effect. Courts and lawyers state 
or assume without much reflection that standing to appeal does 
involve a right to administrative hearing; and statutes . . . 
which specifically entitle "parties in interest" to a hearing 
and "aggrieved persons" to appeal are read together as similar 
in content. Id. at 524-25 (footnote omitted; emphasis in the 
original). 
Whatever merit that argument may otherwise have, its validity is dubious 
when considered in juxtaposition with the provisions of section 4(c)(8) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Since section 4(c)(8) makes a hearing mandatory, permitting 
intervention by interested persons who may be "aggrieved" by a Board 

1720 
>6-
order formulated in a proceeding thereunder does not "expand the number 
• • • of . . . hearings". Further, such intervention may indeed expand 
the "scope" of a hearing in the sense that an intervener may offer 
evidence that would not otherwise be offered, and even raise issues 
that might not otherwise be raised. But so long as the evidence admitted 
is restricted-as, of course, it can be-to that which is relevant and 
material to the statutory considerations, viewed in the light of legisla-
tive purpose, such an expansion in "scope" can hardly be regarded as 
inimical to the public interest. Indeed, to the extent that a better 
^cord results, the public interest will be benefited. 
The Board is of the view that the class of persons "entitled 
a s of right" to be admitted as parties in a hearing required by 
section 4(c)(8) includes those persons who can show that their interests 
a'e such that they might be "aggrieved" by a Board order based on the 
^cord made at such hearing and, further, that the class of persons 
who might be "aggrieved" includes a competitor of the nonbank company, 
^ e activities of which are under scrutiny, as well as a trade associa-
tion, some of the members of which are competitors of such company/7 
Interests of the Intervene. - The motion filed by the 
*ntervenors requesting that they be made parties recites in part that: 
t h e National Association consists of 35,000 insurance agencies and 
tholh* ®° a r d intimates no view on the question whether section 9 limits 
a PrL 
^
^ 
°^ t a i n J u d i c i a l r e v i e w of an order based on the record of 
P t o c ^ ? 
8 
S e C t i ° n 4 ( C ) ( 8 ) t 0 t h o s e w h o w e r e P ^ i e s to the 
o r c W V , n°r, ° n t h e ^ u e 8tion whether intervention is necessary in 
%tion«? T ? the
ii
ri
I
8ht t 0 indicia! review effective. But see Whitney 
•^--ional Bank v. Bank of New Orleans. 379 U.S. 411, 419-23 (1964T. 

1 7 2 1 
-7-
150,000 licensed insurance agents located throughout the United States, 
including Colorado; the Colorado Association consists of 375 insurance 
agencies and 1600 licensed insurance agents located throughout Colorado; 
Mr. Jack Miller, of the Miller Agency, is a licensed insurance agent 
in Colorado, and a member of both the National Association and the 
Colorado Association. It appears from these and other averments in 
the motion that the Intervenors were prepared to show that the Miller 
Agency is a competitor, or potential competitor, of one or both of 
the insurance agencies proposed to be acquired by Applicant and that, 
therefore, the business of the Miller Agency would be subject to direct 
and immediate adverse financial consequences if an order were entered 
authorizing the Applicant to acquire the insurance agencies. 
The Board is of the view that the showing of such a nexus 
would entitle the proprietor of the Miller Agency to be made a party 
to the proceeding; further, his membership in the National and Colorado 
As sociations of insurance agencies and agents, if they are authorized 
to represent their members in these matters, would entitle the 
As sociations to be made parties to the proceeding. It should be 
stressed, however, that while the financial interests of the proprietor 
of the Miller Agency and of the other members of the National and 
Colorado Associations in retaining insurance business may entitle them 
to be made parties to the proceeding, those interests, standing alone, 
are no ground for barring favorable determinations on Applicant's 
requests. Assuming that they are made parties, the role of the 

1 7 2 2 
Interveners is to vindicate the public interest, i.e*, to assure that 
each of Applicant's proposals meets the requirements of section 4(c)(8) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. See 3 Davis, Administrative Law 
§§ 22.05; 22.11 (1958); 1 Id. § 8.11. 
The question of the right of a person to be made a party to 
a section 4(c)(8) proceeding does not depend on whether the evidence 
he is prepared to offer is admissible. A party has other rights and 
an interested person may seek to become a party in order, for example, 
to cross-examine the witnesses of others, to object to the admission 
of evidence offered by others, and to file proposed findings of fact 
and conclusions of law together with a brief in support thereof. That 
is not to say, of course, that irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly 
repetitious, evidence should be admitted. It may be helpful, in this 
connection, to comment on the evidence the Intervenors indicated at 
the hearing that they wished to offer. 
Antitrust considerations. - The Intervenors represented that 
they were prepared to offer the testimony of individual insurance agents 
as to the effect upon them of favorable determinations on Applicant's 
requests. As suggested earlier, the fact that a favorable determination 
would result in increased competition for a person entitles him, upon 
a proper request and showing, to be admitted as a party to a section 4(c)(8) 
Proceeding; however, the fact that such a determination would result in 
increased competition is no ground for denying the requested determination. 
On the other hand, the Intervenors have alleged that favorable determi-
nations on Applicant's requests would result in violations of the antitrust 
laws. 

1723 
-9-
Section 4(c)(8) does not explicitly require that antitrust 
considerations be taken into account. The duty to accommodate the 
policy of the antitrust laws, where there is no explicit statutory 
command to do so, is typically found to be implicit in the statutory 
obligation to determine whether a proposal would be in the "public 
interest" or would be warranted by considerations of "public conve-
nience and necessity". See, e
, 
Northern Natural Gas Co. v. Federal 
Power Commission, 399 F.2d 953, 959-61 (D. C. Cir. 1968). The language 
°f section 4(c)(8) does not employ either of the quoted phrases. 
However, the fact that a favorable determination thereunder requires 
a finding that the activities of a nonbank company are a "proper 
incident" of the business of banking or of managing or controlling 
banks precludes the Board frotn ignoring facts indicating that the 
°wnership and operation of a nonbank company by a bank holding company 
m ay contravene other laws, including the antitrust laws. Cf. Whitney 
Rational Bank v. Bank of New Orleans, 379 U.S. 411, 418-19 (1964). 
Put another way, while the Board is not charged with the responsibility 
o f enforcing the antitrust laws as they relate to the business of 
insurance, 
it is the responsibility of the Board in administering 
Section 4(c)(8) to accommodate the policy of the antitrust laws and, 
particular, to receive and consider evidence respecting the allega-
tion made by the Intervenors. Cf. Philco Corp. v. Federal Communications 
fiSEmission, 293 F.2d 864 (D. C. Cir. 1961). 
V With respect to the applicability of the antitrust laws to the business 
of insurance, see 15 U.S.C. § 1011, et seq. 

-10-
17ZI 
Consideration of the motion at the hearing. - The hearing 
examiner initially indicated that he was denying the motion that 
the Intervenors be made parties to the proceeding, but that he would 
entertain a motion to make the individual insurance agent, Mr. Jack 
Miller, a party for a limited purpose. Counsel for the Intervenors 
asked for a recess, which was granted. When the hearing resumed, 
Board counsel withdrew his earlier objection to the admission of 
the Intervenors as parties, provided the hearing examiner found that 
their lateness in requesting to be made parties would not preclude 
their admission. Counsel for the Applicant withdrew the objections 
he had earlier interposed.-^ 
There followed a colloquy between the hearing examiner and 
counsel for the Intervenors during the course of which the examiner 
apparently endeavored to inform counsel that, in view of the fact 
that the objections to his motion had been withdrawn, the motion 
5/ The Board's Order scheduling the hearing, notice of which was 
Published on November 7, 1969 (34 Federal Register 18070), provided 
that persons desiring to participate in the hearing should file a 
written request on or before November 28, 1969. The Intervenors 
did not meet that deadline and could have been barred from the hear-
ing on that ground, in the absence of an extension of time by the 
hearing examiner for good cause shown. See Rules of Practice 
5263.6(f); 12 CFR § 263.6(f). The fact that the Intervenors and 
their counsel did not see the Order and notice of hearing that 
was published in the Federal Register in time to file their request 
to be made parties within the period specified does not constitute 
good cause" for this purpose. See 44 U.S.C. § 1508. However, 
the objections to the admission of the Intervenors as parties were 
withdrawn after the hearing examiner gave his assurance that ample 
time would be allowed Board counsel and counsel for the Applicant 
to prepare for cross-examination of the Intervenors' witnesses, 
and for other purposes, so that they would not be put at a dis-
advantage by the Intervenors' lateness. 

1725 
- i i -
ought to be renewed. Counsel professed a lack of understanding as to 
what stage the proceedings were then in, and inquired whether the 
riiling denying his motion still stood. When informed that it did, 
insofar as the record then reflected, counsel responded that, in that 
event, he would file with the Board a request for special permission 
to appeal from the ruling and, in connection therewith, he asked that 
the examiner continue the hearing until the Board acted on the request. 
Counsel for the Intervenors, it seems, was under the impres-
sion that his only recourse, at that juncture, was to file a request 
for special permission to appeal from the ruling of the hearing examiner. 
Ordinarily, such a misapprehension on the part of counsel would be of 
no moment and the withdrawal of the Intervenors from the hearing with-
out renewing their motion, if clearly invited to do so, would be 
considered an abandonment of the motion. In this case, however, there 
was more than a misapprehension on the part of counsel. The attempted 
communications between the hearing examiner and counsel on vital points 
were unsuccessful. This resulted in large part, it appears, from 
confusion on the part of all concerned as to what is meant by the pro-
vision in the Board's Rules of Practice that, in pertinent part, 
describes a "party" as a person ". . . entitled as of right . . ."to 
be admitted as such. The Rules of Practice do not set out the criteria 
by 
which a person's entitlement to be made a party is determined, and 
fche Board has not heretofore had occasion to rule on the question. 

1726 
-12-
Conclbs ion* - Cohsidering all the factors deemed pertinent, 
including not ohly the circumstances attendant upon the hearing just 
discussed, but the interest of the Applicant in obtaining determi-
nations 
on its requests without undue delay and the desirability in 
the public interest of having a complete record, as well, the Board 
concludes that the hearing examiner should, at a time and place to 
be determined by him, but as soon as practicable, reconvene the 
hearing for the purpose of giving the Intervenors an opportunity 
to renew their motion and to establish their rights to be made 
Parties; and, if it is concluded that the Intervenors are entitled 
fco be made parties, they should be permitted to participate as such. 
% 
June 4, 1970. 

f^LRtsf:-' 
B O A R D • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1727 
Item No. 3 
6/4/70 
S-2139 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D T. N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B C A R D 
June 4, 1970 
Dear Sir: 
At the March 9, 1970 Conference of Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, Mr. Galusha referred to reports on equal employment 
opportunity that had been submitted to the Subcommittee on Equal 
Employment Opportunity by all of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
These 
report.^ have been brought to the attention of the Board which appre-
ciates the opportunity of reviewing the steps that have been taken by 
the Reserve Banks to implement the Ten-point Program adopted by the 
Conference of Presidents in 1968, in which the Board concurred by letter 
dated December 2.4, 1968. The reports show that progress has been made 
in the System as a whole during the past year and the Board looks for-
ward to further implementation of the program at all supervisory levels 
during 19 70. 
It is understood that some of the Reserve Banks have 
developed or are considering developing affirmative EEO action plans 
with specific target dates. 
Having in mind the advantages of such 
Plans, the Board believes that it would be desirable for all the 
Reserve Banks to have plans similar to those prescribed by the Civil 
Service Commission for Government agencies and by the Treasury Depart-
ment for depositary banks. 
It is recognized that the action plan of 
any Reserve Bank might need to have certain unique institutional or 
community characteristics and, accordingly, the Board is not suggesting 
a uniform plan for all the Reserve B-nks. 
To assist in the development of appropriate action plans, 
there are enclosed copies of the Civil Service Commission and Treasury 
Department guidelines, along with the recently revised action plan 
Prepared by the Commission for its own use. 
The Board is interested in keeping in touch with the Reserve 
Bank EEO programs and will appreciate receiving copies of action plans 
initiated by them. 
Very truly yours, 
Enclosures 3 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
