Minutes for 
M ay L> 1 9 6 7 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
v 

1664 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 1, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Sigel, Eckert, 
Wernick, Ettin, Fisher, Gehman, Kelty, Stone, 
Thompson, Trueblood, and Zeisel of the Divi-
sion of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Irvine, Katz, Reynolds, 
Wood, Bryant, Emery, Gekker, Kohn, Maroni, 
and Pizer, and Mrs. Junz of the Division of 
International Finance 
Economic review. Members of the research staff reviewed the 
U.S. balance of payments position, selected international financial 
matters, and trends in domestic business and financial conditions, the 
reports being based to some extent on materials that had been distributed 

1665 
5/1/67 
-2-
in preparation for tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market Com-
mittee. Copies of the relevant documentation have been placed in the 
Committee's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions and Mr. Broida, Miss Eaton, and Miss McWhirter with-
drew from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Via, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
1 
2 
3 
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment 
of a branch in the Philadelphia Naval Base 
and commenting on the bank's capital structure. 
Letter to Minden Bank & Trust Company, Minden, 
Louisiana, approving the establishment of an 
in-town branch. 
Letter to The Bippus State Bank, Bippus, 
Indiana, waiving the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal from member-
Bank of Pine Apple (Item No. 4). There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated April 28, 1967, from the Legal Division relating to a 

1666 
5/1/67 
-3-
request from the Liquidator for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion in the matter of the Bank of Pine Apple, Pine Apple, Alabama, for 
certain materials in the files of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Following a determination earlier this year by the State of 
Alabama Banking Board that the Bank of Pine Apple was in unsafe and 
unsound condition and that the management was unsatisfactory, the bank 
was placed in receivership and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
appointed liquidating agent. Investigation by the Liquidator would bear 
on the question of recovery of losses under the bank's blanket bond as 
well as liability, if any, of the bank's board of directors with respect 
to its closing. It appeared that a substantial portion of the bank's 
records, including correspondence files and copies of reports of exami-
nation, had been removed from the bank. 
To assist in his investigation, the Liquidator had requested 
photocopies of reports of examination prepared by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta during the period January 19, 1963-January 31, 1967, with 
the exception of one report already in his possession, and pertinent cor-
respondence between the Reserve Bank and the Bank of Pine Apple since 
January 1960. It was noted that the request did not specifically men-
tion the confidential sections of the reports of examination. 
The Legal Division expressed the view that the request was a 
reasonable one. Attached to the distributed memorandum was a draft of 
letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta that would authorize 

1667 
5/1/67 
-4-
compliance with the Liquidator's request, with the understanding that 
the authorization contemplated access to confidential sections of the 
reports of examination in question should they later be requested. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the Liquidator might not be 
aware of the sort of information contained in the confidential sections 
and suggested that the letter be revised to authorize access to the 
confidential sections in the first instance. There was general agree-
ment with this suggestion. 
The discussion then turned to the sequence of events leading 
to the closing of the bank and consideration of what steps might appro-
priately be taken by the Federal Reserve in the future with respect to 
other State member banks similarly situated. 
Mr. Solomon indicated that the Bank of Pine Apple had been under 
close scrutiny for some time, with management suspect, that the Reserve 
Bank's examination procedures had been instrumental in leading to even-
tual action by the State supervisory authorities, that the bank was not 
a viable institution, and that the question had been more one of when 
the bank should be closed rather than what could be done to save it. 
Governor Mitchell commented that nevertheless he was concerned 
that the Reserve Bank had permitted the situation to continue so long 
when it seemed quite obvious that the bank's management lacked integrity. 
Mr. Solomon replied that the Reserve Bank and the Division of 
Examinations had been concerned about the situation for some time, but 

i r > 8 8 
5/1/67 
-5-
that there had been the question whether the suspicions concerning 
management were provable. He added that perhaps the Division had been 
remiss in not bringing the matter to the Board's attention at an earlier 
date in order to keep the Board informed. 
Governor Brimmer observed that apparently the State banking 
authorities had delayed taking action until the Reserve Bank, with the 
Board's active encouragement, had urged such action upon them, and Mr. 
Solomon cited certain intra-State relationships of a political nature 
that seemed to have played a role in the delay. 
Governor Brimmer then commented that a more expeditious solution 
of similar problems might turn upon when the initiative shifted from the 
State banking authorities to the Federal Reserve System, and specifically 
the Board of Governors. He urged that problem bank cases be followed 
closely with that thought in mind. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the transmittal of a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, in the form attached as Item No. 4, 
with respect to the request of the Liquidator in the matter of the Bank of 
Pine Apple. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 5 
is a copy of the letter sent today to the 
Chairman of the Conference of Presidents of 
the Federal Reserve Banks with regard to the 
matter of indebtedness reports. The letter 
was sent pursuant to the action taken at the 
meeting of the Board on April 25, 1967. 

1669 
-6-
Pursuant to the authority granted by the 
Board on April 13, 1967, letters were sent 
today to Nassau Trust Company, Glen Cove, 
New York, and Warren Bank, Warren, Michigan, 
granting an extension of time, until June 30, 
1967, and May 31, 1967, respectively, for 
those banks to file registration statements 
pursuant to section 12(g) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 and Regulation F, Secu-
rities of Member State Banks. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
Item No. 6) approving the designation of William H. Gram as special 
assistant examiner. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
April 27, 1967, recommending that Ann P. Ulrey, Economist in the 
Capital Markets Section, be granted additional leave of absence with-
out pay through July 3, 1967, and that the special work arrangements 
previously approved with regard to Mrs. Ulrey be extended through that 
date. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Florence F. Elder as Keypunch Operator, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,701, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Elizabeth Anne Roistacher as Summer Research Assistant, Division 
of Research and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of 
$6,451, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Maternity leave 
Karen Brown Ludington, Mailing List Clerk-Flexowriter Operator, 
Division of Administrative Services, beginning May 12, 1967. 
5/1/67 

1670 
5/1/67 
-7-
Acceptance of resignation 
Humda Mary Van Pelt, Keypunch Operator, Division of Data Processing, 
effective the close of business May 5, 1967. 

±671 
'•f*4L RE^T 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/1/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 1, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Fidelity Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Fidelity Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, of a branch in Building 619 
in the Philadelphia Naval Base, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
provided the branch is established within six months 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board understands definite plans to 
strengthen your bank's capital structure are being 
formulated. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1672 
B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20S51 
Item No. 2 
5/1/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 9 P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 1, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Minden Bank & Trust Company, 
Minden, Louisiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Minden Bank & Trust 
Company, Minden, Louisiana, of a branch in the vicinity 
of the intersection of Cline Street and Homer Road, 
Minden, Louisiana, provided the branch is established 
within six months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary, 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

16 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 3 
• F THE 
5/1/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E 8 P D 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 1, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Bippus State Bank, 
Bippus, Indiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago has forwarded to the 
Board of Governors your letter dated April 14, 1967, together with 
the accompanying resolution dated April 3, 1967, signifying your 
intention to withdraw from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System and requesting waiver of the six months' notice of such 
withdrawal. 
The Board of Governors waives the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal. Under the provisions of Section 
208.10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your institution may 
accomplish termination of its membership at any time within eight 
months from the date that notice of intention to withdraw from 
membership was given. Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago of the Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, 
such stock will be canceled and appropriate refund will be made 
thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

167 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
OVgoVa-. 
OF THE 
5/1/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20851 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R C S P • N D E N C C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 1, 1967 
Mr. James R. Smith, 
Assistant Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Smith: 
This acknowledges your letter of April 12, 1967, transmitting 
a letter of April 10, 1967, from Mr. Fontaine Storm, Liquidator for 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as Receiver of Bank of 
Pine Apple, Pine Apple, Alabama. Mr. Storm advises that he is cur-
rently conducting an investigation into the closing of the Pine 
Apple bank and, because of his inability to locate in the bank cer-
tain reports of examination of the bank and copies of correspondence, 
asks that copies thereof in your Bank's files be furnished to him. 
Specifically, Mr. Storm requests that he be furnished (1) a 
copy of each report of examination of Bank of Pine Apple prepared by 
examiners on your Bank's staff in the period commencing after 
January 19, 1963, and continuing through January 31, 1967, but exclud-
ing the December 6, 1966, report, and (2) copies of all correspondence 
exchanged between your Bank and Bank of Pine Apple from January 1, 
I960, through January 31, 1967. Regarding such correspondence, 
Mr. Storm's request is limited to the seven subjects set forth in 
paragraph 3 of his April 10, 1967, letter. 
The Board authorizes your Bank to furnish to Mr. Storm, 
solely for the purpose of his current investigation, copies of reports 
of examination of Bank of Pine Apple prepared by your Bank between the 
dates January 20, 1963, to January 31, 1967, and further authorizes 
your furnishing Mr. Storm with copies of all correspondence exchanged 
between your Bank and Bank of Pine Apple for the years 1960 through 
1966, and the first month of 1967, it being understood that the sub-
ject matter of such correspondence relates to one or more of the seven 
subjects identified in Mr. Storm's letter of April 10, 1967. 

1675 
Mr. James R. Smith 
-2-
-V 
• 
• 
The Board notes that Mr. Storm's request for copies of 
reports of examination did not specifically mention the confidential 
portions thereof. However, the nature of his current investigation 
would suggest the need for such portions of reports. Accordingly, 
it is to be understood that the foregoing authorization contemplates 
access by Mr. Storm to copies of confidential sections of the reports 
in question. 
The foregoing authorization is given with the understanding 
that Mr. Storm will be responsible for holding the information fur-
nished in a degree of confidence consistent with the performance of 
his responsibilities as Liquidator in this case. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1676 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
item No. 5 
O F t h e 
5 / 1 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 1, 1967 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, 
c/o Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
Reference is made to the Board's letter S-1907 of February 10, 
1964 (FRLS 9054) in which were outlined the Board's views concerning 
outside activities and certain financial transactions of Federal Reserve 
Bank officers and employees. That letter also expressed the Board's 
desire that the Federal Reserve Banks require officers and employees 
occupying responsible positions to submit periodic reports regarding 
their outside business activities and indebtedness. 
In determining the employees from whom these confidential 
reports should be requested, the Reserve Banks have generally approached 
the matter from two points of view -- one related to conflict-of-interest 
and other ethical considerations, and the other concerned with consid-
erations of security. Under the latter, it was felt that the reporting 
requirement would assist in assuring that employees whose duties in-
volved the handling or custody of cash and other valuables not engage 
in outside activities of a character that might be incompatible with 
their Reserve Bank employment, or that they not engage in speculative 
transactions or accumulate a heavy burden of debt that might possibly 
lead to breaches of trust on their part. 
The Board recently has had an occasion to consider the question 
whether employees in the lower job grades, even though assigned in security-
sensitive areas, might be omitted from the requirement of submitting pe-
riodic reports on their personal financial affairs and outside activities, 
°n the ground that such requirement might not be efficacious for the 
purposes intended and that removing it might improve employee relations. 
by eliminating the basis for complaints on an invasion-of-privacy issue. 

B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
R E S E R V E 
BYBTEM 
1 6 ? 
• - 
..." 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan 
- 2 -
The Board believes that valid reasons may be advanced in 
support of both sides of the question and since the matter is pertinent 
to all the Reserve Banks would like to have the benefit of the views of 
the Conference on the subject. While it is realized that individual 
Reserve Banks may have different policies respecting the degree of 
coverage, it seems desirable that criteria be established for deter-
mining, as a minimum, the Reserve Bank employees who should be subject 
to the reporting requirement referred to in letter S-1907. It would 
be appreciated if you would take appropriate steps to have the 
Conference consider this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1678 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
5/1/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 2, 1967 
Mr. Leiand M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of April 26, 1967, the Board approves the 
designation of William H. Gram as a special assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
» 
Assistant Secretary. 
