MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 27, 19 72 

1 7 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 27, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 11:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistants, 
Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1 7 5 
1/27/72 
-4-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on January 24, 1972, of the rates on 
advances and discounts in its existing schedule was approved unan-
imously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to that Bank. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to State Street Bank 
Boston International, New York, New York, granting consent to acquire 
the shares of State Street Bank International, New York, New York, 
and to liquidate the latter, receiving shares of State Street Bank 
G.m.b,H., Munich, Germany, currently held by State Street Bank Inter-
national. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No..1. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting denial 
°n January 12, 1972, of the applications of Carlton Agency, Inc., 
carlton, Minnesota, (1) to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of shares of Carlton National Bank, Carlton, Minnesota, 
and (2) to acquire assets of First National Bank Insurance Agency, also 
°f Carlton. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on December 15, 1971, of the application of Chemical New York Corpora-
tion, New York, New York, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
to Eastern National Bank of Long Island, Smithtown, New York. A copy 
of the order is attached under Item No. 3, ..together with the dissenting 
statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 

1/27/72 
-3-
The Board approved unanimously the application of North 
Atlantic Bancorp., Newton, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of 
University Trust Company, Cambridge, Massachusetts, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First 
Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of The 
Orlando National Bank-West, Orlando, Florida, a proposed new bank, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
°f the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board approved unanimously recommendations made by the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum dated 
January 7, 1972, (and concurred in by the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans), that the Board (a) authorize a 
reappraisal of Federal Reserve vault specifications to be conducted as 
soon as possible; (b) authorize the staff, with the concurrence of the 
Committee on Compensation, Organization, and Building Plans, to award 
a vault reappraisal contract after analysis of proposals submitted by 
three appropriate research organizations; and (c) authorize a total 
expenditure not to exceed $150,000 for this purpose. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta interposing no objection to a proposed purchase 

177 
1/27/72 
-4-
of real estate adjacent to the New Orleans Branch site. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago interposing no objection to a proposed real estate 
Purchase. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia interposing no objection to obtaining the services 
of a cost consultant in connection with the Bank's new building. A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 8. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation. In a 
memorandum dated December 22, 1971, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation recommended approval of the applications of First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire 
shares of a merchant bank to be formed in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and 
to acquire shares of a finance company also to be formed in Kuala 
Lumpur. The Division advocated imposition of a condition that both 
institutions confine their activities to those of a banking or finan-
cial nature. A draft letter in that form was attached. 
Following discussion, the Board unanimously approved the letter. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 9. 

1 7 8 
1/27/72 
-5-
Republic National Bank of New York. In a memorandum dated 
May 19, 1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the application of Republic National Bank of New York, 
New York, New York, to continue to hold shares of Republic National 
Bank of New York (International) Limited, Nassau, Bahamas, after the 
latter acquires shares of a Brazilian corporation. A draft letter 
in that form was attached. A memorandum dated January 18, 1972, from 
Governor Brimmer referred to problems encountered under the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program, which had been corrected in the 
interim. 
Following discussion, the Board approved the letter, Governor 
Robertson abstaining. A copy is attached as Item No. 10. 
Governor Sheehan entered the meeting at this point. 
Patagonia Corporation. In a memorandum dated January 21, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Patagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, to acquire shares 
°f Model Finance Company, Phoenix, Arizona. A draft approval order 
Was attached. The Legal Division, in a memorandum dated January 26, 
1972, explored questions regarding the status of the present nonbanking 
subsidiaries of the applicant and its intentions regarding those 
subsidiaries, and regarding the relationship between the applicant and 
another bank holding company. 

1/27/72 
-3-
During discussion, the Board agreed that the order would take 
note of certain open questions pertaining to the applicant's non-banking 
subsidiaries. 
The Board thereupon unanimously approved the application and 
authorized issuance of the order, as revised. A copy of the order in 
the form subsequently issued is attached as Item No. 11. 
First Bank System. In a memorandum dated January 25, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of First Bank System, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, to 
acquire shares of IDS Credit Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, an 
operating sales and consumer finance company. The Banking Markets 
Section also recommended approval, but the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis recommended approval only if certain conditions were 
imposed. Memoranda dated January 26 from the Legal Division (1) sub-
mitted a draft order in terms of approval, and (2) recommended denial 
°f a request by Bancorporation of Montana, Great Falls, Montana, that 
a hearing be held on First Bank System's application. A draft letter 
was attached. 
Following discussion, the Board approved the application, 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, and authorized issuance 
°f an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
under Item No. 12, together with the dissenting statements of Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer. 

ISO 
1/27/72 
-7-
By unanimous vote the Board denied the request of Bancorpora-
tion of Montana for a hearing. A copy of the letter sent to counsel 
for that organization is attached as Item No. 13. 
First Tulsa Bancorporation. In a memorandum dated December 9, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of First Tulsa Bancorporation, Inc., Tulsa, Oklahoma, 
to acquire shares of Southeastern State Bank, Tulsa, Oklahoma. On 
December 30, 1971, the Board considered the application and requested 
additional information, which was supplied by the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation in a memorandum dated January 18, 1972. 
Following discussion, the Board approved the application, 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. It was understood that 
an order reflecting that decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration, and that a dissenting statement would also be prepared. 
Industrial National Corporations The Board authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting approval on January 18, 1972, of the application 
tof Industrial National Corporation, Providence, Rhode Island, to 
acquire shares of Ambassador Factors Corporation, New York, New York. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 14;. j , 
(Note: Governor Brimmer had previously dissented from this 
'decision but, on the basis of further inquiry,:-he now indicated that 
he would vote with the majority.) 

iSi 
r 
- 
F u.i'M'j-:.- ; 
£< 
; .• 
- 
1/27/72 
1/27/72 
-8-
VS-mH.tlt ' • 
All staff members except Messrs. Holland, Smith, Burke, 
Kakalec, and Halley withdrew at this point. 
Full-time employment targets. A memorandum dated January 24, 
1972 . 
prepared by the Office of the Executive Director presented full-
time permanent employment targets for June 30, 1972, in support of the 
President's new economic program (NEP). A total target of 1,177 full-
(J 
time persons working on Board business (plus the equivalent of 9 
Persons estimated to be involved in working on various aspects of 
NEP) was presented with a Division breakdown, together with indications 
°f the impact that compliance with these targets would have on the 
work of the various Divisions. 
In response to questions regarding the 
effect that the targets might have on distributions of Board employment 
by 
classification, race, and sex, Mr. Burke indicated that adherence 
to the targets would have little effect on employment distributions. 
The Board approved the recommended targets. A copy of the 
Executive Director's memorandum is attached as Item No. 15; copies of 
the memoranda prepared by the various Divisions have been placed in the 
Board's files. 
All staff members except Mr. Holland withdrew at this point. 
The Board discussed considerations relevant to presidential 
succession at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

.•.^oyVOY-.;-. 
B O A R D D F 
B D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E ; 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1/27/72 
ADDRCSS OFFICIAL C O R f? CM CO N Dt N G £ 
TO THE HUARO 
January 27, 1972 
State Street Bank Boston International 
20 Exchange riace 
New York, New York 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 27, 1971., the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("SSBBI") 
to acquire and hold all of the shares of State Street Bank Inter-
national ("SSBI") and to proceed with the liquidation of SSBI, re-
sulting in SSBBI holding all of the shares of State Street Bank 
G0ro.b.ll. ("SSBG"), Munich, Germany, provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. In this connection, 
approval is also granted for the purchase and holding of shares of 
SSBI and SSBG by your Corporation in excess of the applicable limi-
tations set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) [U.S„Ce615(c)] 
of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent to the acquisition of the stock of 
SSBG is granted subject to the same conditions applicable to SSBI's 
holding of said stock and the further condition that assets received 
from the liquidation of SSBI not be placed on SSBBI's books at more 
than SSBBI's proportionate share in the net asset value thereof. 
It is requested that the Board, through the Federal Re-
serve Bank of New York, be advised immediately when SSBBI acquires 
the stock of SSBI and when SSBI has been liquidated and is no longer 
in existence. 
It is understood that the foreign loans and investments 
of SSBBI and State Street Bank and Trust Company will in the future 
be reported under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program on a combined 
basis and the foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 

8 3 
State Street Bank Boston International 
the foreign investments now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines as they will apply to State Street Bank and Trust Com-
pany and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1 8 4 
Item No. 14 
1/27/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CARLTON AGENCY, INC, 
Order Denying Action to Become a Bank Holding Company 
and Request for Determination Under § 4(c)(8) 
Carlton Agency, Inc., Carlton, Minnesota, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
(a)(1)) to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
of Carlton National Bank, Carlton, Minnesota ("Bank"). 
i 
, 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board s 
( 
aPproval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Hegulation Y to engage in certain permissible insurance agency activities 
through the acquisition of certain assets of the First National Bank 
insurance Agency, Carlton, Minnesota. 
Notice of receipt of these applications has been given in 
accordance with §§3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
views has expired. The Board has considered the applications and 
a*l comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) 
0 f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and finds that: 
Applicant is a newly-formed organization and has no operating 
history. Upon acquisition of Bank ($5.9 million of deposits), Applicant 
^0llld control about 0.1 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the 
jr.V.''.•• 
State. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1971.) As the proposed 

13 
-3-
t^nsaction represents a transfer of an individual's ownership of Bank 
inh 
0 a presently nonoperating holding company, consummation would not 
eliminate any existing or potential banking competition and would not 
result in any increase in the concentration of banking resources in any 
Levant area. Bank's management and financial condition are consistent 
approval and its capital presently is adequate. However, because 
of 
proposed method of financing the acquisition of Bank, the 
financial condition and prospects of Applicant and Bank would be adversely 
af£ected by consummation of the proposed transaction. 
Applicant, upon consummation of the proposed acquisition, 
Would incur acquisition debt of $175,000 (now owed by the principal to 
a thirH 
•»-ca-party bank), which would amount to approximately 66 per cent of 
Appij 
» 
icant s equity. The balance of the debt, $100,000, would be held 
°«ally by the principal and would be secured by stock of Applicant. 
Appi .J 
^ant would require more than 60 per cent of Bank's earnings to 
C e t h e debt, and its ability to do so is considered marginal. 
The Board views the debt split arrangement present in this 
eation as a method to circumvent the problem of debt servicing by 
ank holding companies. The fact that the principal personally 
^ s a s 
sumed part of the bank acquisition debt does not mean that the 
8 company will not be expected to satisfy, directly or indirectly, 
6 °f the obligation. After analysis of the proposed debt of Applicant 
it 
3 principal and other circumstances of record, the Board concludes that 
*he a 
cquisition debt involved in this proposal presents adverse 

JL8t> 
-3-
ci*cutnstances bearing on the financial condition and prospects of 
APPlicant and Bank. Such circumstances are not outweighed by any 
P^ocompetitive factors or by circumstances relating to the conven-
ience and needs of the communities to be served. On the basis of 
tlle record, the Board concludes that approval of the § 3 application 
ta not in the public interest, and it is accordingly denied.^ 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- January 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Denial of Applicant's 3(a)(1) application requires denial of the 
2/ V 
4 < C X 8 > Proposal. 
Hit y° t i nS f o r t h i s action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
chell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 

1 8 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/27/72* 3 
CHEMICAL NEW YORK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Chemical New York Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board1s approval under section 3(a)(3) of the 
A e t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger 
0 the Eastern National Bank of Long Island, Smithtown, New York ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
e*cept as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor 
Otganization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
o f Bank. 
V- 
, 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with section 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing com-
e t s and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
Secti0n 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in New 
Vork 
controls two banks with total domestic deposits of $7.64 billion, 
Resenting 8.7 per cent of the State's total commercial deposits, 
banking data are as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
company formations and acquisitions to date.) Upon acquisition 
Bank ($52.2 million deposits), Applicant would not increase its share 
d*posits in the State, nor its present ranking. 

1 8 8 
-2-
Bank operates its main office and three branches in the 
Smithtown banking market, and two branches in the Huntington banking 
^ k e t . It is the second largest banking organization in the Smithtown 
Market, with 15.3 per cent of the deposits in that market, and the 
fourth largest banking organization in the Huntington market, con-
, , 
1/ 
tolling 2.0 per cent of market deposits. 
Applicant's subsidiary 
office closest to Bank is located 5.5 miles west of Bank's Huntington 
branch in Nassau County, a separate banking market, into which Applicant's 
bar*k is presently prohibited from branching. Although Applicant's sub-
8i(liary branch derives some banking business from Bank's service area, 
listing competition is nominal and there are two banking offices in 
t b e intervening area. Consummation of the proposal would thus eliminate 
°nly a small amount of existing competition and would not adversely 
a^fect any competing bank in any relevant area. 
Some potential competition between Applicant and Bank would 
foreclosed upon consummation of the proposal since Applicant could 
Gnter Bank's markets de novo or through acquisition of a smaller bank. 
effect of the elimination of this competition would appear to be 
^ I m a l , however, in light of the large number of potential entrants to 
t h e market. Additionally, within Bank's market area there are seventy-
flve offices of fourteen banks. Within the county there were, at year 
erid 1970, 23 banks with 186 offices. Forty-seven per cent of these 
0ffices represented only three commercial banks. Applicant's acquisition 
°f fiank, and Bank's expected expansion through de novo branching would 
^ T a n k i n g data relating to market position are as of June 30, 1970. 

17 
-3-
Provide additional competition for these three dominant banks and have a 
Pr°~competitive effect in the market. 
Applicant is paying a relatively small premium for Bank based 
uPon market values of Applicant's and Bank's stock. Based upon book 
Value the premium is substantial. However, Applicant does not appear 
to H 
be paying for the purchase of monopoly power. While it is true 
t^lat Applicant could enter de novo, if it were to do so it would be 
Pr°hibited by New York State law from opening a new branch in the year 
charter and them limited to two branches a year until 1976. Such 
testrictions would limit Applicant's competitive effectiveness in the 
^tket and the "premium" appears to reflect the worth to Applicant of 
such competitive effectiveness at an earlier date. The 
Staklishment of branches by Bank as contemplated by Applicant would, 
Pointed out above, be pro-competitive. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and Bank 
generally satisfactory and consistent with approval. Applicant pro-
P°Ses to offer, through Bank, trust and investment advisory services and 
lotypy. 
L rates on installment loans, thereby providing another competitive 
^'ternative for expanded banking services. Accordingly, considerations 
mating 
to convenience and needs of the community lend some weight 
°Ward approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
actin 
° n would be in the public interest and that the application should 
aPproved. 

190 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
^serve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
January 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
I SEAL] 
and 
tllis action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Maisel. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
Governor Sheehan did not participate in the Board's action on this 
matter. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We would deny the application. Consummation of the 
Proposal would have adverse competitive effects which are not 
outweighed by considerations relating to the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served, and the transaction would 
n°t be in the public interest. 
Bank operates six offices and has received approval 
to open two additional offices in the attractive, rapidly growing 
Suffolk County area. With deposits of $52.2 million, it is the 
second largest banking organization in the Smithtown banking 
Market and the fourth largest banking organization in the Hunting-
ton market. Although Applicant's present banking subsidiary is 
Prohibited from branching into Suffolk County, there is some 
existing competition between its Woodbury office and Bank's 
Huntington branch, which offices are only 5.5 miles apart. More-
over, it appears that Applicant would be a likely entrant into the 
lowing Suffolk County market. 
In connection with the recent application of Applicant 
t° acquire the Tappan Zee National Bank, one of us (Governor 
Robertson) expressed concern about the high premium Applicant was 
Paying for the bank. There should be even greater concern with 
the premium being paid in the present case. Based on the book 
values of both Applicant's stock and Bank's stock that is being 
e*changed in this transaction, Applicant is paying a premium of 

1 3 2 
-4-
almost $9 million or approximately 18 per cent of Bank's deposits, 
It is obvious that Applicant is willing to pay such a premium to 
°htain a well-established branching network and market position and 
thereby avoid the need of developing a de novo bank into a strong 
competitor. This is an understandable business judgment by Applicant; 
however, it is the public's interest—not Applicant's—that is paramount, 
furthermore, the existence of such premiums in the Suffolk County 
a r e a reduces the possibilities for holding companies smaller than 
Applicant to enter the market through the acquisition of a bank. 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank is anticompetitive since it 
will eliminate the potential competition that would result if Appli-
cant entered the market either through cte novo establishment of a 
subsidiary bank or by a foothold acquisition of a smaller bank. The 
t w° largest New York City - based holding companies have entered 
County by establishing de novo subsidiary banks. Applicant 
should also be required to enter Suffolk County dje novo which would 
^crease, rather than decrease, competition and thereby provide 
greater benefits to the public. 
The record reflects that the banking needs of Suffolk County 
being adequately met at the present time, and none of the benefits 
t o the convenience and needs of the communities to be served urged 
^ Appiicant outweigh the anticompetitive effects of the present 
transaction. Those same alleged benefits could be provided in less 
anticompetitive ways, and the application should be denied. 
> 
ai*uary 27, 1972 

1 9 3 
Item No. 14 
1/27/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NORTH ATLANTIC BANCORP. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
North Atlantic Bancorp., Newton, Massachusetts, a bank holding 
C°mPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
u acquire 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of University Trust 
C°*Pany, Cambridge, Massachusetts ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in accordance 
§ 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and views has 
xPired. The Board has considered the application and all comments received 
ln the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
atld finds that: 
Applicant controls one bank with total deposits of $33.9 million, 
esenting .3 per cent of total commercial deposits in the State. (Banking 
are as of June 30, 1971.) Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $10.2 million) 
ate. 
d*ta , 
not significantly increase Applicant's share of total deposits in the 
St 
Bank operates its sole office in the Boston SMSA and the area it 
Ptft 
ently serves is approximated by the towns of Cambridge, Somerville, 
ngton and Belmont. Bank controls .1 per cent of the deposits in the 
°n SMSA and ranks forty-first of fifty-five banks in that market. Appli-
1 o 
s subsidiary office closest to Bank is located 6.5 miles away and is 
n S o , 
J-ocated in the Boston SMSA; however, it serves a different area, which 

-4-
1 3 4 
is approximated by the cities of Newton, Wellesbay, Watertown, Brookline, 
Bedford and Woburn. There is only nominal existing competition between 
Bar*k and Applicant's existing subsidiary and there are numerous banking 
offices in the intervening area. Consummation of the proposal would elimi-
nate only a small amount of existing competition and would not adversely 
affect any competing bank in any relevant area. 
Some potential competition between Applicant and Bank would be 
f°reclosed upon consummation of the proposal since both Applicant's subsi-
diary bank and Bank can branch de novo into each others service area. 
H°Wever, the high ratio of commercial banking offices to population in the 
relevant areas, and the relatively static economic and population growth 
in those areas minimize any effect on potential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and Bank are 
Generally satisfactory and consistent with approval. It appears that con-
Sun»nation of this proposal would not have any immediate effects on the 
c°nvenience and needs of the communities, although improvement and expansion 
0f services may be facilitated by the operational structure of a holding 
Coiapany. Moreover, Applicant will assist Bank in loan participation arrange-
r s , auditing, advertising, and general operating procedures. Considerations 
^lated to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served there-
f°te> lend some weight for approval. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Pr°Posed transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
S^°uld b e approved. 

1 9 5 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
°ston pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
January 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
aisel, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Sheehan. 

federal reserve sY&tite 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Item No. 1 
1/27/72 
First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, a bank holding 
c°mpany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a) 
to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Orlando 
^Iational Bank - West, Orlando, Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application and all 
Co®ments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant has 22 subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of 
^^Proximately $445 million, representing 3.0 per cent of the commercial 
bank deposits in Florida. (Banking data are as of June 30, 1971.) 
approval of the acquisition of Bank would not presently increase Appli-
Catltl
3 deposits since Bank is a proposed new bank. Although one of 
applicant's subsidiaries, The Orlando Bank and Trust Company ("Orlando 
^ank")> ig located four miles from the proposed site of Bank, Orlando 
originates only a small percentage of its deposits and loans within 
k s proposed service area. Moreover, Applicant does not have a 
0Qlinant position in the Orlando area. Accordingly, the Board concludes 
that. 
L consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect 
0lsPetition in any relevant area. 

1 3 7 
-4-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as satisfactory, 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
lend weight in favor of approval since Bank is to be established in one 
o f the fastest growing areas in Florida and will provide an additional 
s°urce of services to customers in or near the Disney World complex. 
! t is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tlle reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, and pro-
v e d further that (c) The Orlando National Bank - West shall be open 
business not later than six months after the date of this Order. 
The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended for good 
C0use by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant 
to delegated authority, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
January 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
(SEAL) 
Secretary of the Board 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
a n d Sheehani 
®ne, Maisel and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 

26 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 14 
1/27/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
AODREUB OFFICIAL KDHREKPDNDENCC 
TO THE UDAHD 
January 28, 1972 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
The Board has considered your request to acquire 
the improved property, known as lots 3 and 4, located at 
734-738 Poydras Street, adjacent to the New Orleans Branch 
as described in your letter of December 10, 1971. The 
Board will interpose no objection for the Bank to exercise 
the option to purchase the proposed property at a cost not 
to exceed $300,000. 
In connection with future purchases of the remaining 
parcels to complete the assemblage, Board approval is not 
required on a parcel-by-parcel basis, provided that the cost 
does not substantially exceed the appraised land value of 
the individual parcels and the total expenditure for the 
entire assemblage does not exceed $1 million. In this regard, 
the Board should be apprised of any circumstances which would 
indicate that the entire property assemblage cannot be made 
within the authorized amount. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

199 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
DF THE 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1/27/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
'.^LRt^V 
ADDWCSS OFFICIAL C • R R E S3 P&N OF. N C Z
TD THE HOARD 
January 28, 1972 
Mr. Robert P. Mayo, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 60690 
Dear Mr. Mayo: 
The Board has considered your request to acquire 
land and a warehouse-type building located at 200 South 
Peoria Street, Chicago, Illinois, for the purpose of securing 
needed storage facilities and the anticipated installation 
of a currency destruction operation, by the shredding method, 
as outlined in your letter of December 15, 1971. The Board 
will interpose no objection for the Bank to exercise the 
option to purchase the proposed building at a cost not to 
exceed $225,000. 
With regard to the Bank's plans to install currency 
destruction equipment in this building, it is requested that 
the proposed arrangements for protection of this operation be 
reviewed with the Boardxs staff and security consultant prior 
to implementation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2 0 0 
K
s
: 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 14 
1/27/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL. CDHKtSPUNDENCE 
TO THE GOARD 
January 28, 1972 
Mr. David P. Eastburn, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101 
Dear Mr. Eastburn: 
The Board has considered the request to obtain the 
services of a cost consultant as outlined in the Bank s 
letter of December 30, 1971, and will interpose no objection 
for the Bank to engage the Turner Construction Company as its 
cost consultant at a cost not to exceed $25,000. 
It is understood that the Bank is contemplating the 
construction management technique, and that a specific proposal 
will be submitted to the Board for consideration m the near 
future. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2 0 1 
v
j
k
v
'
A
^
A
'
j
y
- * 
b o a r d o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• R 
T H E 
D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
5 Y B T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 14 
1/27/72 
ADDRT'nn URNCIAI. C O H R C M W I N D C N C I . 
TO THE UDAT/D 
January 28, 1972 
First National City Oversea; 
lavestruent Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
Kew York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of September 16 and 29, 1971, 
the Board of Governors grant, consent for your 
W
^
0
^ 
chase and hold up to 49 per cent of the 
£ 
^ 
forned in 
and up to 40 per cunt of a 
^ 
h^ 
( a b o u t 
$ 160000) and 
(about $X3C>,Oo!/) roapectivcly 
provided 
the. shares are acquired within one year from the date of this le,ter. 
Tho foreeoing if. granted on the condition that each the 
merchant bank Z
^ 
S i n J c company shall confine its active, 
to international or foreign banking and other international 
eign financial operations. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
<*c investments will b made ^ithin the foreign 
Guidelines as they apply to lirst national w i ) 
ia tes. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2 G £ 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
-' cVco'.:.' •. 
• F THE 
It em No. 10 
^ 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1/27/72 
• , > ' 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
ID. 
C . 
2055! 
[•;'[['• w/:-' 
\ \ ! j j j j t ; 
• 
AOf) R CUB OFFICIAL UDKHEBPDND C: 
' ' ' . v'' • 
TO THE DOAKO 
January 27, 1972 
Republic National Bank of New York 
Fifth Avemvi at 40th Street-
New York, New York 
10018 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of February 4, March 15, and 
March 17, 1971, the Board of Governors grants consent for your bank 
("RNB") to continue to hold the shares of Republic National. Bank of 
1'ow York (International) Limited ("RNBI"), Nassau, Bahamas, after 
RNBI acquires up to 99 per cent of the shares of a Brazilian corpora-
tion ("BC") at a cost of approximately $19,800, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of B0 by RNBI is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That RNBI shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BC if BC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 23(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if BC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to RNBI; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, RNBI 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BC as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BC be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if BC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

203 
Republic National Bank 
of New York 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by BC in Brazil in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Associatioi 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of BC. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the acquisition will be made with the resources of RNBI and will not 
involve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from 
the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2 0 4 
Item No. 11 
PATAGONIA CORPORATION 
1/27/72 
Order Approving Acquisition of Model Finance Company 
1/ 
Patagonia Corporation, Tucson, Arizona, a bank holding com-
ply within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
tended, has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the 
Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of 
voting shares of Model Finance Company, Phoenix, Arizona. Notice 
of the application affording opportunity for interested persons to sub-
ttit comments and views has been duly published. Time for filing comments 
a*ul views has expired and all those received have been considered. 
The operation of a finance company and acting as insurance 
agent or broker are activities that the Board has determined to be 
^osely related to banking (12 C.F.R. 225.4(a)(1) and (9)). 
A bank holding company may acquire a company engaged in either of these 
activities as long as the activities of the institution proposed to be 
acquired are not conducted in a manner inconsistent with the limitations 
the Board has established pursuant to § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant's banking subsidiary, Great Western Bank and Trust 
("Great Western'1), is the sixth largest bank in Arizona. Its deposits 
o f $124.7 million represent 3.5 per cent of total deposits in the State. 
Great Western makes consumer installment loans through its headquarters 
of£ice in Phoenix and in branch offices throughout Arizona. Installment 
c*edit by all Arizona banks, as of December 31, 1970, totaled $648.1 
^ H i o n , of which Great Western had but $5.0 million. 
X ^ ~ P a t a g o n i a cT^^ation presently controls various nonbanking subsidiaries 
acquired prior to the date it became a bank holding company under the Act. 
*t is its intention to clarify the status of certain of these subsidiaries 
as soon as possible, and to comply with the requirements of the Act, in-
cluding the divestiture provisions of section 4, where applicable, as to 
all of these subsidiaries. 

-4-
2 0 5 
Model Finance Company is a small consumer finance holding 
I
f 
company with total assets of $7.2 million. It has 13 offices, of which 
8'~are in areas of Arizona served by Great Western; the 5 out-of-State 
offices are located in Albuquerque, Las Vegas, and Denver. Model Finance 
c°mpany makes small consumer loans and sells credit insurance in connec-
tion with its lending activities. The local markets for high-risk con-
sumer loans, in which Model Finance Company competes, encompass a rela-
tively large number of competitors. For example, in the Tucson and 
Phoenix metropolitan areas there are 39 and 117 licensed consumer finance 
companies, respectively. 
Most potential borrowers in the small high-risk consumer loan 
Market either can not or would not consider commercial banks as alterna-
tive sources. Since finance companies and commercial banks do not com-
Pete for loans to the same class of borrowers, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of the acquisition would not eliminate existing or potential 
competition between Great Western and Model Finance Company, Nor is 
there any significant possibility that the acquisition will have adverse 
®ffects on credit availability to independent finance companies. There 
no evidence in the record indicating that consummation of the proposed 
transaction would result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair 
competition, conflicts of interests, unsound banking practices, or 
°ther adverse effects on the public interest. 
It is anticipated that Model Finance Company's affiliation 
with Applicant will give Model Finance Company access to the greater 
& 
Data as of June 30, 1971. 

3-
2 0 6 
resources of Applicant, and enable it to compete more effectively 
with other consumer finance companies in the area in which it operates. 
There are also certain economies likely to be derived from the affilia-
tion, On balance, the Board concludes that the public benefits factors 
the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) outweigh any 
possible adverse effects that might result from the proposed acquisition. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
determination is subject to revocation by the Board if the facts upon 
which it is based change in any material respect. 
3/ ' 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 27, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
Haisel, Brinimer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

2 0 7 
Item No. 12 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/27/72 
FIRST BANK SYSTEM, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of IDS Credit Corporation 
First Bank System, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, a bank 
holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act, as 
amended, has applied for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of 
the Act and section 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire 
100 per cent of the voting shares of IDS Credit Corporation ("IDSCC") , 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. Notice of the application affording opportunity 
for interested persons to submit comments and views has expired and all 
received have been considered. 
Making or acquiring loans or other extensions of credit and 
selling group credit life and disability insurance are activities that 
the Board has previously determined to be closely related to banking 
(12 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (9)). A bank holding company may acquire a 
company engaged in this activity so long as the proposed acquisition is 
consistent with the relevant factors specified in section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act. 
Applicant has 86 bank subsidiaries, located in Minnesota, 
North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, and Wisconsin. By virtue of its 
control of 49 banks in Minnesota holding $2.7 billion in deposits, which 
sum represents 28.5 per cent of deposits in commercial banks in the 
State, Applicant is the largest banking organization in Minnesota. 
Within the Minneapolis-St. Paul Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area 
C'SMSA"), Applicant controls 16 banks holding $1.6 billion in deposits 

2 0 8 
-4-
constituting 39.7 per cent of deposits in commercial banks in the 
Hinneapolis-St. Paul SMSA, and is the largest banking organization 
in that SMSA. (All deposit data are as of June 30, 1971, whereas 
all market share data are as of June 30, 1970.) Although all 86 
commercial banking subsidiaries make direct consumer installment 
loans, only, five purchased dealer-originated home improvement installment 
contracts in 1970. The aggregate amount of such contracts was 
•52,657. 
IDSCC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Investors Diversified 
Se*vices, Inc. ("IDS"), is a sales finance company that purchases 
and services dealer-originated home improvement installment contracts, 
through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Empire Loan and Thrift Company, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota ("Empire"), IDSCC makes direct consumer loans 
purchases dealer-originated automobile installment contracts. 
*&SCC also operates IDS Homes Corporation, Dublin, Georgia, which 
Purchases mortgages on low priced homes, and IDS Credit Corporation 
Texas which makes direct consumer loans through four offices in 
Texas, IDSCC operates 19 offices in 21 states. With the exception 
its corporate home office and a sales finance office in Minneapolis, 
fchese offices operate outside of the Ninth Federal Reserve District 
^ various midwestern and southern states. Empire operates throughout 
Minnesota from a single office located in Minneapolis. 
As of December 31, 1970, IDSCC was the 98th largest finance 
Company in the nation and as of September 30, 1971, IDSCC held unpaid 

-3-
credit balances ("outstandings") of approximately $87.1 million. 
However, IDS has already purchased approximately $50.8 million of 
IDSCC's outstandings and prior to consummation of the proposed 
acquisition, IDS will acquire $36.3 million in outstandings of IDSCC 
in exchange for an assumption of the liabilities of IDSCC. Similarly, 
IDS will purchase the outstandings of IDS Homes Corporation. The 
°utstandings of Empire and IDS Credit Corporation of Texas will be 
retained by those subsidiaries. Upon consummation of the proposed 
transaction, IDSCC will have total assets of approximately $7 million 
and net worth of $1,5 million. 
Since Applicant's present subsidiaries do not compete 
outside of the Ninth Federal Reserve District, the proposed acquisi-
tion of IDSCC would not affect existing competition outside of the 
Ninth Federal Reserve District. Therefore, prospects for significant 
Potential competition between Applicant and IDSCC outside of the Ninth 
district are slight. 
Within the Ninth District, the two Minneapolis offices of 
IDSCC purchase dealer-originated home improvement installment contracts 
°riginating in Minnesota and norttwestern Wisconsin; such outstandings 
amounted on September 30, 1971, to approximately $5.7 million. 
Although these contracts will be sold to IDS prior to consummation of 
the proposed transaction, it may be assumed that the outstandings of 
this type will be rebuilt by IDSCC if the acquisition is consummated. 

2 1 0 
-4-
any case, there is little existing competition between Applicants 
subsidiaries and IDSCC in view of the insignificant extent of the 
involvement of those subsidiaries in the secondary market for home 
improvement paper. Although, given Applicant's substantial financial 
resources, there exists a possibility that it might expand its 
Presently limited activities in the home improvement paper market, 
there is no indication that such an expansion is probable. In this 
sense, the proposed acquisition may have only a slightly adverse 
e£fect, 
Applicant's subsidiaries and Empire both make direct 
c°nsumer loans in the Minneapolis-St. Paul SMSA. However, Empire 
Primarily makes consumer loans of a higher risk quality than commercial 
hanks would, as a rule, make. Furthermore, Empire - which as of 
December 31, 1970 had outstanding loans and paper of $0.9 million -
i s not a significant competitor in the consumer loan business in the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul SMSA, being one of the smallest of the 130 con-
sumer finance companies in the SMSA. It is estimated that Applicant 
through its subsidiaries holds approximately 16 per cent of out-
standing consumer loans in the SMSA and thereby is the largest consumer 
lender. It would appear that neither existing nor potential significant 
competition in consumer lending in the SMSA would be foreclosed by 
c°ttsummation of the proposed acquisition. 
Based upon the foregoing, and the record before It, the 
^°ard concludes that the proposed acquisition would have no adverse 

-5- 
" 211 
effects on existing competition and only slightly adverse effects on 
potential competition in Minnesota and northwestern Wisconsin. It is 
expected that, following consummation of this proposal, Applicant 
will encourage expansion by IDSCC into new geographic markets outside 
the Ninth District and into new areas of finance activity and that 
n° n e of this expansion will occur within the Ninth District. Assuming 
that this expansion would be by internal growth rather than by 
acquisition, the public interest would be served by both added con-
Venience and increased competition. On balance, the Board concludes 
these public benefits outweigh any possible adverse effects on 
competition. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
l n the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under section 
8) is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved, 
•^is determination is subject to the Board's authority to require 
Reports by, and make examinations of, holding companies and their sub-
sidiaries and to require such modification or termination of the activities 
o f a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds 
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the 
and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ January 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
<!/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Haisel, 
at*d Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer, 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
Applicant is the largest banking organization in the 
Ninth District and presently controls an extensive network of 86 
hanks operating throughout the Ninth District. I believe that a 
hank holding company that occupies as dominant a position as Appli-
cant does, should not be permitted to expand into other financial 
areas absent a showing of significant public benefits flowing there-
from. To hold otherwise would be to permit the very unbridled develop-
ment of undue concentration of economic resources which the Act was 
meant to prevent. First Bank System, Inc. possesses the resources 
ai*d ability to expand into nonbanking financial areas de novo. It 
should be expected to do so. 
Because consummation of this proposed acquisition would 
have adverse effects on competition and because this application is 
totally devoid of any benefits to the public, I would deny the appli-
cation. 
January 27, 1972 

2 1 3 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I dis sent from the majority position in this case for the 
reason that the Board's approval of this application permits the 
sixth largest banking organization in the nation, and by far the 
dominant banking organization in the Ninth Federal Reserve District, 
to achieve an extremely powerful position in numerous locations within 
the Ninth District with respect to consumer financing services. Appli-
cant presently controls 86 banks, 49 of which are located in the State 
of Minnesota (controlling 28.5 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deposits in the State) and 37 of which are in the remaining 4 States 
comprising the Ninth District (15 banks in Montana representing control 
of approximately 28.9 per cent of the total deposits, 7 banks in South 
Dakota holding approximately 16 per cent of total deposits, 14 banks 
in North Dakota holding approximately 16 per cent of total deposits, 
1 bank in Wisconsin controlling approximately .3 per cent of total 
deposits). 
At the present time Applicant's subsidiary banks, located 
throughout the Ninth District, are engaged in making direct consumer 
loans and the purchase of dealer-originated automobile installment 
paper. This is precisely the major thrust of Empire's activities. 
The Board's approval action in this case would enable Applicant, his-
torically identified as an aggressive competitor, using Empire as the 
acquiring vehicle, to acquire existing finance company offices in any 
of the several localities where Applicant's subsidiary banks and 
such finance company offices compete. Under the simplified procedures 

2 1 4 
-4-
for bank holding company acquisition of consumer finance companies 
that have been proposed by the Board to be incorporated in its Regula-
tion Y, a bank holding company could acquire any number of consumer 
finance companies, each with assets of less than $10 million, so long 
as the aggregate assets of consumer finance companies acquired under 
the procedures within a one-year period does not exceed $50 million. 
The typical consumer finance company in the upper Mid-west holds assets 
°f less than $10 million. Thus, Applicant could, with minimal effort, 
eliminate existing competition between Applicant's subsidiary banks 
and existing finance companies and raise insurmountable barriers to 
future entry by potential competitors. The obvious result would be 
a further strengthening of an already dominant position in this pro-
duct market. 
In my judgment, Applicant, occupying as dominant a position 
as it does in the State of Minnesota and the entire Ninth District, 
should be permitted to expand in the consumer finance market only by 
de novo entry. The Board's action not only fails to impose such a 
requirement but will encourage unbridled expansion to the disadvantage 
of the banking public. Such a consequence is not contemplated by 
the applicable statute. The application should be denied. 
January 27, 1972 

215 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• f THE 
Item No. 13 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1/27/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL UtlRHESPDNDENCE 
TO THE BDABD 
February 1, 1972 
Mr. William T. Dolan 
Lindquist & Vennum 
860 Northwestern Bank Building 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55402 
Dear Sir: 
The Board of Governors has considered your request conveyed 
by your letter of December 13, 1971, on behalf of your client, Bancor-
Poration of Montana, for a hearing in the matter of the application of 
First Bank System, Inc., for prior Board approval to acquire IDS Credit 
Corporation ("IDSCC"). 
We understand that Bancorporation is a bank holding company 
headquartered in Great Falls, Montana, and controls eleven affiliated 
banks serving ten communities in the State of Montana. You indicate 
that these banks hold approximately 4.35 per cent of commercial bank 
deposits in the State whereas bank subsidiaries of First Bank System 
hold approximately 28.9 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the 
State. First Bank System has applied to the Board, pursuant to section 
4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, for prior approval to acquire 
IDSCC, which is principally engaged as a sales finance company special-
izing in the purchase, sale, and servicing of dealer originated install-
ment notes arising out of home improvement contracts. Through three 
small subsidiaries, IDSCC also engages in making direct consumer loans 
and in the sales financing of residential mortgage loans. 
It appears that of approximately $96 million in notes out-
standing held or serviced by IDSCC on May 31, 1971, only notes in the 
amount of $9,878 originated in the State of Montana. Further, by 
letter of December 20, 1971, the General Counsel of First Bank System 
has denied any intention on the part of either First Bank System or 
IDSCC to expand the sales finance or lending activities of IDSCC into 
the State of Montana. 
In addition, Bancorporation of Montana has 
neither expressly nor impliedly indicated any intention to expand its 

216 
Mr. Wi11iam T. Dolan 
-2-
activities beyond the boundaries of the State of Montana. 
Accordingly, 
the Board has concluded that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
will have only an insignificant adverse effect, if any, upon Bancor-
poration, and that Bancorporation lacks standing to request a hearing 
in this matter. 
Its request for a hearing is, therefore, denied. 
Enclosed is a copy of the Board's Order approving this appli-
cation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

2 1 7 
Item No. 14 
1/27/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
INDUSTRIAL NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Ambassador Factors Corporation 
Industrial National Corporation, Providence, Rhode Island 
("Applicant"), a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, has applied for the Board s 
approval under 5 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Regulation Y, to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares of Ambassador 
Factors Corporation, New York, New York ("Ambassador") into which its 
affiliates Belvedere Factors Corp. and Ambassador Leasing Corp., will 
be merged prior to the acquisition. Notice of the application afford-
ing opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
was duly published. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered, including those presented 
°rally and in writing in connection with a Board hearing on November 12, 
^971, pertaining to factoring in general. 
The operation by a bank holding company of a commmercial 
finance company and a factoring company are activities that the Board 
has previously determined to be closely related to the business of 
hanking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). The Board has also determined that data 
Processing services for the internal storing and processing of banking, 
financial or related economic data for members of the holding company 
system are closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(8)). 
Such a data processing subsidiary may also perform incidental activities 
such as selling excess computer time so long as its only involvement 

7 
218 
-2-
is furnishing the facility and the necessary operating personnel 
(12 CFR 225.123). A bank holding company may engage in the above 
activities so long as the activities of the institution proposed to 
be acquired are not conducted in a manner inconsistent with the 
limitations the Board has established pursuant to § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
It appears that Ambassador engages in factoring and commer-
cial finance; its affiliate Belvedere Factors Corp. engages in commer-
cial finance; and Ambassador Leasing Corp. provides data processing 
services for Ambassador and sells excess computer time to Ambassador's 
customers within the limitations of 12 CFR 225.123. Accordingly, 
the activities of Ambassador and its affiliates are closely related 
to banking. 
Applicant, the parent holding company of Industrial National 
fiank of Rhode Island, has consolidated assets of $1,074 billion, 
including Bank's total assets of $1,029 billion. (Banking data are as 
June 30, 1971.) Bank is the largest banking organization in Rhode 
Island, with 51.2 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State. 
Ambassador and its affiliates are located in New York City. 
In 1970, Ambassador had a factoring volume of approximately $110 million 
vith 79 per cent of its customers being headquartered in New York City. 
Ambassador is the twenty-third largest of the twenty-six factors that 
compete in national markets and its factoring volume was one per cent 
the total commercial factored volume for those twenty-six factors. 
Belvedere Factors Corp. is a small competitor in the commercial finance 

2 1 9 
-3-
field, having an annual business volume of $1.2 million. Ambassador 
Leasing Corp. had an annual business volume from its data processing 
activities of only $47,000. 
Neither Applicant nor any of its subsidiaries engages in 
factoringjand consummation of the proposl would therefore eliminate no 
existing competition in the factoring field. It appears unlikely that 
competition in this area would arise between Applicant and Ambassador. 
Factoring is characterized by relatively high entry barriers due to 
the high degree of expertise in the client's industry which is required 
and de novo entry in the field has been extremely limited. 
There is no significant existing competition between Applicant 
and Ambassador and its affiliates in the commercial finance field. Each 
derives less than one per cent of its volume from the service area of 
the other. Due to geographical separation and the large number of 
competitors in the field, significant competition is unlikely to develop. 
While Applicant presently has a subsidiary performing data processing 
services, neither it nor Ambassador Leasing Corp. do any business in 
the service area of the other and are unlikely to compete in the future. 
There is no evidence In the record indicating that acquisition of Ambassa-
dor by Applicant would result in any undue concentration of resources, 
unfair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, 
or other adverse effects on the public interest. 

-4-
220 
The majority of Ambassador's clients are now headquartered in 
New York City and acquisition of Ambassador by Applicant will likely result 
in a wider availability of factoring services in Rhode Island. Additionally, 
it has become increasingly difficult in recent years for factors to 
find sufficient financing to expand. Affiliation with Applicant would 
assure Ambassador of a source of such funds. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable, and lends weight toward approval. Accordingly, the application 
is hereby approved. This determination is subject to the Board's 
authority to require reports by, and make examinations of, holding 
companies and their subsidiaries and to require such modification or 
termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its subsi-
diaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,—^ January 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
lsel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor Robertson. 

c o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
Board of Governors 
221 
B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item N O . 
1 5 
A R R H C 
1 / 2 7 / 7 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
' 
I) atc_jLa^ua r y 2 4' 1 9 7 2 
Assignment of Division Full-Time 
Subject: 
-2 
— 
0 ^ 7 o 7 t h e 
Executive Director 
g r ^ n t t o g l o y m e n t Targets o n J u g e j O , 
Recommendat ion 
In support of the President's new economic program (NEP) 
it is recommended that: 
1. The Board constrain its full-time permanent 
employment on June 30, 1972 to a total of 1,177 
persons working on Board business (plus the 
equivalent of 9 persons estimated to be involved in 
working on various aspects of NEP). 
2 
The Divisions be assigned the full-time permanent 
employment targets on June 30, 1972 shown in 
Column 6 of Attachment 1. 
Background 
On October 8, 1971, the Board in support of the 
President's goal to reduce federal civilian employment by 5 per 
cent, on June 30, 1972: 
1 
Reduced projected full-time permanent Board 
positions on June 30, 1972 by 5.5 per cent from 
the previously planned level. 
2. Established 1971/1972 full-time permanent position 
ceilings for each Division. 
3 
Directed that projected personnel costs be reduced 
commensurately with the position reductions from 
the previously planned levels. 
Directed that employment reductions be achieved 
through attrition by not filling certain 
971 
vacancies and by reducing projected 1972 add-on 
positions from previously planned levels. 

2 2 2 
o 
January 24, 1972 
TO: Board of Governors 
5 . Directed that « 
» 
T v l r 
£ une 30,1972, that would . c
o
^
U 
with 
i t to be achieved by the Executive Branch. 
r 
Erected that the Controller monitor intermittent, 
nart-time and temporary employment, the use of over-
fim , and contracting out for services, in addition 
to emphasizing vacancy control, to ensure hat all 
levels, and cost reduction targets. 
Subsequently, the Chairman 
Caspar Weinberger 
the Deputy Director 
^
° 
s u p p o r t ; 
and Budget, and informed him thai, tne bo 
f un-time 
the President' s goal and woulc1 attempt to ho d its f « U t 
^ 
permanent employment on June 30, 19/2 as ci 
u 
v;as 
level- as practicable for an agency with growth programs. 
v c 
a ° p ~ 
_ 
, - 
H i p noard would approximate 1,20b full 
stated that this level for the Board voui 
i historical 7 per cent 
time permanent positions; maintenance of o
u
' 
9 ? 2 
, 
1,1 r-ncnlt- in Board employment on June ju, j.j/l 
vacancy rate would 
£ 
^ 
Lployees. 
0MB officials 
being limited to 1,1// actual J-UJ. 
r 
reoarded as 
understand that our staff members working on NEP are rug 
outside this limitation. 
Pursuant to the earlier directive, the Office of the 
. 
l U 
Tnr 
the Controller and the Personnel Division have 
Executive Director, the Conuoiici 
resulted in holding 
imposed strict controls on hiring that ave result 
c o n s l s t e n t 
our staff to a level ( P ^ ^ . ^
1
4 ^
1 
a need for these 
with the mid-year target of 1,1//. 
m e r e is u 
controls to be complemented by a Board decision a « 
m d j e a r 
employment levels, Division by Division 
to permit 
effectively plan use of available staff resources. 
To develop suitable mid-year targets, the Executive 
To develop su 
rnntroller have now personally 
Director, his Deputy and the Controller 
£ e n t s £ o r 
f u U -
reviewed with the Division Directors their req 
^ 
^ 
o u r 
^ 
time permanent employees on June JU, 1 
, 
t h e 
c o n v e r sations 
budget (which provided lor 1,280 
t h e controller had 
with 0MB officials. 
Preliminary to this revie^, ^ 
^ 
consistent 
established employment targett> for e 
3 0 ) 1972. During 
with an overall target of 1,177 . e m P l ° y e " 
w e r e asked to 
s r 
s j f s * ^ 
— 

, 
r „ 
January 24, 1972 
TO: Board of Governors 
-> 
June 30, 1972. 
(Copies o£ those memos are attached 
^ 
Board members should wish to use them for more detailed background 
reference.) 
The table in Attachment 1 contains my recommended 
e m p l o y m e n t targets lor each Division on dune 30, 19 
and s ows 
the adjustments that I have made taking into 'on"£ratxon the 
Division Directors' memoranda and other highprio.ity Board 
requirements. There is sufficient flexibility available to 
Governor Sheehan and the Executive Director under delegated 
authority to satisfy warranted modifications to the target. 
It should be recognized that the Division Directors 
expect certain authorized projects and activities to be delayea 
curtailed or terminated as a result of the constraining of actual, 
f u U - ime employment to the targets that I have recomended 
Attachment 2 has been prepared to summarize and h i g h ^ the 
Division Directors' assessments of the program impacts that wou-d 
result from these targets. 
1 have tried to 
impacts, and I conclude that from a cost-benefit poin 
during this period, each recommended cutback is justifiable. 
The staff leadership believes, however, that significant 
employment additions will be needed after mid-year in order to 
carry forward important Board programs effectively 
All such 
positions have already been provided for in the 1972 budget. 
Attachments: 
(1) Table 
(2) Impact of Employment Targets 
(3) Division Memoranda 

o 
r <u 
B 
o 
u 
QJ 
« 
W 
4J a 
U) 
V-t 
<« 
EH 
4J 
C C\J 
I 
o 
T- I 
fcl CN 
W f-
aj *—I 
n 
d) r. 
a o 
CO CO 
s~< 
a 
W H 
r—t 
O R-H 
a {.r, 
o 
•H rj 
« O 
03 «r4 
> 
in 
•H »H 
U > 
O .H 
P 
P 
O 
•H 
W 
•r-l 
> 
•H 
P 
V) H 
0) 
H 
a) 
'd 
M 
CO 
o PQ 
M 
O 
4-J 
O 
CJ 
M 
•r-1 
p 
a) 
> 
i j 
o <v 
X W 
U cJ 
4-J 
<u 
V-i 
o 
o 
CO 
r-l 
CO 
to 
• cu 
hJ 
w 
0 
•r-l 
4J 
W 
•H 
4J 
CO 
4-J 
CO 
^ 
O 
cO 
a 
w 
<D 
O 
o 
C 
cO 
CJ 
•r-< 
fM 
i—I 
co 
C o 
•H 
4.) CO 
C 
M 
QJ 
4-J 
C 
H 
c 
0 
• 1 
4-J 
CO 
i-l 
w 
60 
C 
0) 
O 
P^ 
•r4 
P^ 
4-J 
CO 
V-f 
c 
O 
0 
CU 
•r4 O 
w 
•H 
k > 
> 
C 
cO 
0) W 
ex. P4 
3 
P4 
CO 
C 
o 
• r - l 4-1 
CO 
M 
4J 
CO 
•H 
a 
•r-4 
& 
< 
r-l 
CJ 
c 
c 
o 
U) 
M 
a) 
P-< 
w 
O o 
•r-l 
> 
V4 
CJ 
CO 
OJ 
> 
•H 
4-J 
CO 
J-4 
4-J 
W 
•H 
c 
e 
"O 
c 
o 
M 
4J 
O 
u 
CO 
c 
•r-l 
CO 
CO 0) 
y 
o 
>-1 
P-I 
CO 
4-J 
Ctf 
P. 

Summary Program Impact of Recommended 
Division Employment Targets 
on June 30, 1972 
Attachment 2 
• ' » ? 
Minimum Division 
Personnel 
Recommended 
Needs for 
> 
Target 
Assigned Activities* ., 6/30/72* ... 
Board Members 
3 4 
3 4 
/« 
,-Jn.i j-irpct reflects shift of Mr. Solomon 
No impact. 
(Recommended target r e u 
d d J t l 
o f 
and a* secretary from International and the addition oi 
another secretary). 
Executive Director 
12 
12 
ennrf from slowing of certain manage-
No significant impact, apart from siowi b 
D C r S o n 
ment improvement activities due to equivalent 
of 1 person 
working on NEP. 
Secretary 
5 8 
5 5 
• 4-,--r'L minutes to action minutes on Board 
Shift from descriptive minutes LO 
V 
actions on merger and holding company cases <2 persons), 
slowing typing of backlog minutes (1 person). 
Legal 
3 7 
3 7 
Has agreed to try operating 
Holding Company Program may requiic 
Research & Statistics 
268 
2 6 4 
Believes that strict adherence to t a r g e t . U k e l y ^ o ^ e l a y 
will be decided upon by not 
replacing before midyear any vacancies occurring in 
noncritical areas (4 persons). 
80 
7 7 
International Finance 
105 
99 
Supervision & Refutation 
„ 
r n e c j o n o d target of 99 would be as follows: 
Program impact of assigned cargcu 
* 
Excluding estimated staff working in NEP (specified in 
Table 1). 

2 2 6 
3-
i-ii inni n0, c a p a b i l i t y would act be 
S
S
S
^
T
^
-
^
W
t
i
o
a 
will not be 
m
W
. 
(2 persons) 
states. (X person) 
H m j n a delavs due to filling 
G e n ^ P r o j L r ^ S u j ^ - t 
^ 
f i l U n g 
only one of 2 stenographic positions, 
a supervisory position. 
(2 persons) 
7 ^ c o T n T a ^ " T ^ i n e r will seriously impair the Regulation 
G inspection program and training of replacement .or 
Mr. Shantz. 
(1 person) 
101 
9s 
FR Bank Operations 
Program impact of assigned target of 98 would be as follows: 
Reserve BankJyaluation - on-site surveys at Reserve 
_ 
¥.^rs"Tnd™ot^r similar activities will require a longer 
period of time to be completed (1 person). 
? 1 , n n ^ j l J n 1 _ g v . t e m 5 Development - reshaping of Division 
wouTd~be temporarily delayed, (1 person). 
Construction Planning - turn around time for processing 
requests will deteriorate. 
(1 person) 
37 
3 2 
Personnel Administration 
, i. 
Stenographic pool which is maintained essentially to expedite 
the filling of FR-3 and FR-4 vacancies will be reduced from 
15 to 5 or less. This will reduce a source of overload and 
short term stenographic assistance. 
225 
2 1 3 
Arinnm* strative Services 
Program impact of assigned target of 213 would be as follows: 
Security - reduction in program planned by the security 
task force. 
(2 vacancies) 
Thipi-tration Section - delay in the completion of certain 
printing requests. 
(2 vacancies) 
Mossonger Force - service to fifth floor in Watergate 
ToT'^ilTbe'liiraded to some extent. 
(2 vacancies) 

2 2 7 
-3-
Controller 
f'ifptrria - services will be reduced and may result in 
i f g ^ c l o s i n g Of the sandwich line. 
(2 vacancies) 
Motor Transport - overtime costs will increase. (1 
vacancy) 
Publication^Section - gradually building backlog of 
correspondence anticipated,, 
(1 vacancy; 
A d m i n i s L r a ^ ^ x o n - internal Division operations 
i m T e hampered. 
(2 vacancies) 
2 7 
2
6 
pfforts in support of the Operations 
Systems 
x
m
p
r
o
v
e
m
e
n
t efforts xn 
PI 
^ 
vacancy) 
Improvement Committee w i n 
234 
230 
Data Processing 
of 230 would be as follows: 
Program impact of assigned target ol /-Ju 
Data Production 
Reduction of ad hoc service support for production 
data requests from members of the Board and the 
Board's staff. 
Elimination of production systems 
review for thi purpose of approving timeliness and 
quality of public releases. 
(1 person) 
t r a d i n g of production support service including 
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n documentation, production ad hoc services 
and quality edit functions. Would also impact the 
ability to bring the Project Management System 
(Board's new resource accounting system up m 
production mode during 1972. 
(1 person) 
Computer Operations 
„ 
1, („ continuing requirement for highly-paid 
Result in continuing 
^ ^ 
c h 
s e r v i c e 
in°li mi ted areas "and the requirement to increase the 
in limited 
q u D D O r t to handle requests for 
I
S
, 
w
h
i
c
h 
c a n tolerate 24-hour response. (1 person) 
Systems Programming 
Will impact on the effectiveness of the new computer 
system due to be installed in March and its supporting 

-4-
4 
l i q e r s and result in considerable 
r
;
g
" 
E 
turnaround « « 
and system 
tUrou 8U PuU 
(1 person) 
