I 
PR 609 
( R ev. 3/70) 
Minutes f o r 
July 27, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

1818 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 27, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 3:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Staff reorganization. The Board considered various matters 
related to the staff reorganization plan adopted at the meeting of the 
Board on July 2, 1971. 
At that earlier meeting, it had been agreed that the question 
of the proper title for the chief of staff position would be left for 
resolution at a meeting of the full Board. After further discussion, 
and taking account of a report by Governor Sherrill concerning the titles 
and content of similar positions in other agencies, the Board voted to 
approve the title "Executive Director," to be assumed by Mr. Holland on 
August 15, 1971. 
Governor Sherrill also recommended the appointment as Deputy 
Executive Director of Mr. David C. Melnicoff, currently First Vice 
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. He recommended 
that 
Mr. Melnicoff's salary be set at an annual rate of $38,500, the 
same as Mr. Melnicoff was receiving in his current position, with his 
service at the Board to begin on a mutually convenient date, presumably 

1840 
7/27/71 
-2-
around the end of September. Governor Sherrill also proposed that the 
Board reimburse Mr. Melnicoff for out-of-pocket expenses incident to 
his move to the Washington area. After discussion, the Board approved 
these recommendations. 
Governor Sherrill also recommended that the salaries of 
Messrs. J. C. Partee and Robert Solomon be increased to an annual 
rate of $38,500, effective August 15, 1971. This adjustment was designed 
to place their salaries at the same level as Mr. Melnicoff's, and was 
intended to give recognition to their special roles as Advisers to the 
Board and as heads of the Divisions of Research and Statistics and 
International Finance, respectively. The Board approved this recom-
mendation. 
At the conclusion of the executive session the following entered 
the room: 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant 
Thrift Plan. The Board approved unanimously the transmittal 
of a letter to Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency Com-
mittee in response to his request for information with respect to the 
Thrift Plan for employees of the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the 
letter, in the form approved and transmitted, is attached as Item No. 1. 

1850 
7/27/71 
-3-
In this connection, Governor Maisel advised that pursuant to 
previous informal discussion by the Board he had reported to the Reserve 
Bank Presidents yesterday that in the view of the Board there should 
be a limitation on the amount of Thrift Plan contributions the employer 
should make with respect to contributions made by an employee. 
Specifically, 
he had suggested that the Thrift Plan be amended so that the employer's 
matching contribution would be limited to 1-1/2 per cent of salary up 
to $50,000 a year. This would result in a limitation on the employer's 
matching contribution of $750 a year. 
Reference also was made to a statement in Mr. Patman's letter 
of July 2 requesting information on the Thrift Plan that last year he 
had requested that "your agency submit to the Committee its expenditures 
that were not totally in connection with the day-to-day banking operations 
of your agency." 
It was noted that the Board's files failed to reflect 
receipt of a request.phrased in such terms, or in other terms that would 
have encompassed the operation of the Thrift Plan. 
It was noted also that the reply to Mr. Patman regarding the 
Thrift Plan did not include information on the names of System officers 
and employees earning more than $20,000 who participate in the Plan, or 
the amount of their holdings in the Plan. It was considered preferable 
to omit such information at this stage, and to reconsider the matter if 
Mr. Patman should make a further request. 
Messrs. Cardon and Sherman then withdrew and the following 
entered the room: 

1851 
7/27/71 
-4-
Messrs. Mcintosh, Director, and Guinter, 
Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Messrs. Kakalec, Controller, and Halley, 
Deputy Controller 
Cost reduction. On June 30 the Board had considered a draft 
of letter to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks expressing 
concern about continuing cost escalation and suggesting a target of 
6.2 per cent for average salary increases. It was agreed at that time 
that the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
Plans would discuss the draft with the Committee on Management and 
Personnel of the Conference of Presidents before final action was taken. 
After discussion between the two groups, a revised draft of letter was 
prepared, and it had been submitted for the Board's consideration with 
a memorandum from the Board's Committee dated July 21, 1971. 
Governor Maisel commented that one of the problems discussed with 
the Presidents' Conference Committee was the practice of making annual 
adjustments in salary structure at the Reserve Banks to meet local mar-
ket levels. It was the feeling of the Presidents' Conference Committee 
that the Board, in considering structural adjustments, should allow 
latitude for individual Bank proposals above or below the target as long 
as structural adjustments were held within the targeted 6.2 per cent for 
the System as a whole. 

±85,°: 
7/27/71 
-5-
After discussion, during which it was suggested by a Board 
member that salary structure proposals probably would have to be 
submitted simultaneously by the respective Banks in order to afford 
an effective and equitable Systemwide control, the proposed letter was 
approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
At this point Messrs. O'Connell, General Counsel; Jascourt, 
Senior Attorney, Legal Division; and Metzger, Assistant to the Secre-
t a r Y j joined the meeting. 
Policy on unionization. 
In the course of an unfair labor prac-
tice proceeding involving the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
both the Hearing Officer and the System Labor Relations Panel (Mr. William 
E. Simkin, Chairman, and Governors Mitchell and Daane) had determined 
that the Policy on Unionization and Collective Bargaining for the Federal 
Reserve Banks, issued by the Board on May 9, 1969, did not clearly 
provide a procedure for dealing with alleged interference with a fair 
and free election. The Hearing Officer had tried to close the gap by 
fashioning a "strict test" of the unfair labor practice provisions and, 
in particular, what a Reserve Bank could or could not do to persuade 
employees to vote against the union. The Reserve Bank countered that the 
Policy did not authorize a "strict test" and that the Panel did not have 
power to deal with behavior of the parties that did not fall under the 
unfair labor practice provisions. The Reserve Bank conceded that there 
was a gap in the Policy, but asserted that the remedy was to amend the 
Policy. Having generally accepted the position taken by the Reserve 

1853 
7/27/71 
-6-
B a n k , t h e P a n e l h a d p r e p a r e d 
f o r B o a r d c o n s i d e r a t i o n a n e w 
s e c t i o n 
t h a t t h e P a n e l r e c o m m e n d e d b e a d d e d 
t o t h e e l e c t i o n p r o c e d u r e s 
i n 
t h e p r e s e n t P o l i c y . 
T h a t a m e n d m e n t w o u l d e n a b l e 
t h e P a n e l 
t o 
e s t a b l i s h 
a n " o b j e c t i o n s 
t o e l e c t i o n " p r o c e d u r e a n d a l s o g u i d e l i n e s 
f o r 
c a m p a i g n 
c o n d u c t 
f o r R e s e r v e B a n k s , u n i o n s , a n d 
t h i r d 
p a r t i e s . 
The proposed amendment to the Policy relating to the "objections 
to election" procedures had been transmitted to the Board with a memo-
randum from the Panel dated July 19, 1971, and a covering memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated July 23. Also transmitted for the Board's 
information were the Panel's Report and Decision on the San Francisco 
case, as yet unpublished, along with a proposed Code of Pre-Election 
Conduct and Rules and Regulations Pertaining to Election Conduct. The 
recommended Policy amendment would be published in the Federal Register 
for comment at the same time as publication by the Panel for comment of the 
documents drawn up by the Panel to implement the Policy amendment. 
M r . 0 ' C o n n e l l c o m m e n t e d 
o n t h e S a n F r a n c i s c o 
c a s e , t h e 
p r o b l e m 
e n c o u n t e r e d , 
t h e P a n e l ' s 
d e c i s i o n , a n d t h e p r o p o s e d s o l u t i o n . 
H e 
n o t e d 
t h a t s o m e e d i t o r i a l w o r k r e m a i n e d 
t o b e d o n e o n t h e P a n e l ' s R e p o r t 
a n d 
D e c i s i o n . 
T h e r e 
f o l l o w e d a d i s c u s s i o n o f t h e i n t e n t o f t h e 
p r o p o s e d 
P o l i c y a m e n d m e n t a n d , w i t h r e s p e c t 
t o o n e p a r a g r a p h 
i n p a r t i c u l a r , 
w h e t h e r 
i t w o u l d b e c l e a r 
t o t h e p a r t i e s 
c o n c e r n e d . 
T h e B o a r d w a s a d v i s e d 
t h a t 
t h e f o r m u l a t i o n w a s a d v o c a t e d b y M r . S i m k i n , a n d 
t h a t t h e r e h a d 
b e e n 
e x t e n s i v e d i s c u s s i o n 
o f i t w i t h i n 
t h e P a n e l . 
T h e 
l a n g u a g e 
t h a t h a d 
b e e n 

1854 
7/27/71 
-7-
worked out was regarded by the Panel as reasonable, although it was 
anticipated that there might be some adverse reactions on the part 
of Reserve Bank Presidents. 
It was suggested that the proposed amendment be communicated 
to the Presidents so as to reach them before it appeared in the 
Federal Register. The necessity of maintaining an even-handed approach 
was noted, but Mr. O'Connell felt that the suggestion could be accom-
modated through communicating to the Presidents the Panel's Report and 
Decision, when published, and urging that it be read in conjunction with 
the proposed Policy amendment. 
The Board then authorized the publication for comment of the 
proposed amendment to the Policy on Unionization and Collective Bargain-
ing for the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of the proposed Policy amend-
ment, as it was subsequently published in the Federal Register for com-
ment, and attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of the letter sent to the 
Reserve Bank Presidents. 
Reserve Bank building programs. In a memorandum dated July 16, 
1971, the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans 
expressed its concurrence in recommendations set forth in a memorandum 
°f July 1, 1971, from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
concerning the proposed building programs of the Boston and New York 
Reserve Banks. 

1855 
7/27/71 
-8-
With regard to the Boston program, the Division believed that 
the Bank's personnel and space projections had resulted in a building 
program that was excessive. 
It recommended that the Bank be requested 
to review its personnel and space projections with a view to reducing 
the total size of the building. 
(Note: 
The Committee memorandum stated that the Boston Bank 
was reevaluating its overall space needs. By the time of today's meet-
ing the reevaluation had been completed and revisions had been proposed. 
The Division was now satisfied with the program.) 
As to the New York program, the Division believed that it would 
not adequately solve (1) the security court problem in the present build-
ing, (2) the problem of insufficient space in the coin department to 
handle coin wrapping, (3) the congested check collection function, or 
(4) the Bank's long-range space needs. The Division recommended that 
the Bank be authorized to (1) proceed with the presentation of the 
design of the proposed new annex building to obtain the necessary variance 
to the zoning regulations, based solely on the merits of the design 
concept; and (2) begin concurrently the necessary planning to establish 
a remotely located facility for its coin and currency operations, its 
check collection and data processing functions, and other related 
departmental functions, including the necessary personnel facilities, 
and reevaluate its long-range space needs. 

1856 
7/27/71 
-9-
Governor Maisel commented on the magnitude of current and pros-
pective building programs for the System as a whole, together with the 
principal reasons advanced for new structures, following which he and 
Governor Brimmer discussed certain possible alternatives, including 
the establishment of remotely located facilities in suburban areas 
for operating functions. 
It was noted that the Board would at some 
point have to seek relief from the current statutory limitation on 
branch building programs and that in the course of Congressional hear-
ings questions with regard to head office construction expenditures were 
likely also to be raised. 
The proposed New York building program was then discussed in 
the light of the foregoing general observations and the Division recom-
mendation. 
It was agreed that permission for the Bank to move forward 
with its annex building should be conditioned on a stipulation that the 
Bank would promptly begin to study the establishment of a remotely 
located facility to accommodate operations of the kinds mentioned in the 
memorandum from the Division. While some reservations were expressed 
with respect to the design or related features of the proposed new annex 
building, it was the consensus that the project had moved far enough 
along that the Board would not be warranted in raising objections along 
those lines at this stage. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a telegram to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the form attached as Item No. 5. 

1857 
7/27/71 
-10-
In light of the latest revisions proposed by the Boston Bank 
to its building program, unanimous approval was given to a telegram to 
that Bank in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board then considered a memorandum from the Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans dated July 16 expressing 
concurrence in recommendations contained in a memorandum from the Divi-
sion of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated July 7 with respect to a 
proposed new building for the Baltimore Branch of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond. The Division recommended that the Bank be authorized 
to proceed with the selection of an architect and to commence (1) the 
exploration of available sites other than the one now under consideration, 
with preparation of comparative site feasibility studies of at least 
two additional sites, and (2) the development of a detailed departmental 
space program for the Branch's present and future space needs. The 
question whether the regional check clearing center should be located 
in the same building as the Branch's check collection department or in 
a separate facility would be held open. 
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
the Richmond Reserve Bank in the form attached as Item No. 7. 
Governor Robertson noted his heavy reliance on the recommendations 
°f the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans in 
connection with these matters, and Governor Maisel observed that in 
connection with the consideration of Reserve Bank building programs the 

1858 
7/27/71 
-11-
Committee essentially engaged in a bargaining process in which it 
attempted mainly to try to prevent major errors. This was accepted 
by Board members as a fair statement of the responsibility that should 
be exercised in relation to such matters. 
It was suggested that Board 
members should support on record the recommendations of the Committee 
unless their objections were strong enough to cause them to enter an 
! / ' • .v.. 
' 
(,.."."• 
' ; 
• . U i 
adverse vote, and Governor Robertson noted that he would not vote 
against the actions taken today. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
JLHvV*. / 
Item No. 1 
7/27/71 
'•.f^sfWfy 
July 30, 1971 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D . C. 
20515. 
Dear Mr„ Chairman: 
I am glad to furnish you with information about the Thrift 
PI 
an for employees of the Federal Reserve System, as requested in 
your letter of July 2 that was received in my office on July 8. 
The main point to make perhaps is that since 1934 the 
Federal Reserve has had a plan for retirement and savings, as is 
now true of most progressive employers. The objectives of the Plan 
are to provide a suitable means of separating older employees on a 
bas 
is that permits those having career service to maintain a standard 
of living after retirement not greatly below that prior to retire-
ment; to promote thrift on the part of the individual; to reduce costs 
to the Reserve Banks by diminishing employee turnover; to assist in 
recruiting and retaining personnel in competition with other employers; 
and generally to maintain employee morale in the interests of their 
improved performance and greater efficiency in the work of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Initially, the Federal Reserve retirement program consisted 
of two parts: a pension paid for by the employer, and a compulsory 
savings plan to which every employee was required to contribute a 
percentage of his salary. These savings, with interest, were designed 
to provide an annuity at retirement approximately equal to the amount, 
of the employer-provided pension. They could not be withdrawn so long 
as the individual remained an employee of the Federal Reserve and at 
retirement could be used only in one way--to purchase an annuity. If 
one left the System and withdrew his contributions in cash, he was not 
entitled to the pension. 
With the introduction of social security and its periodic 
expansion through the pay scale (it became applicable to the Federal 
Reserve Banks in 1951), the number of System employees actually making 

1860 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
contributions to the annuity fund gradually diminished because of the 
practical necessity of permitting them to offset their social security 
taxes against the compulsory annuity contributions. 
In 1968, the System re-examined the entire concept of its 
retirement program and found that it was out of date. As part of the 
revised program described in the enclosed brochure dated October 14, 
1969, the employee savings plan was transformed into our so-called 
Thrift Plan. 
Under the new program, employees were allowed to transfer 
their savings from their annuity accounts to the new Thrift Plan, 
effective January 1, 1970. The total thus transferred was $45,314,964, 
which included the members
1 accumulated contributions plus interest 
earned on them. No matching contributions by the Federal Reserve were 
included in those accounts. Thereafter, employees were permitted—and 
encouraged--to enroll in the Thrift Plan and to save by payroll deduc-
tion, as described in the brochure and in the enclosed copy of a 
communication to employees dated April 15, 1971. 
With respect to your specific questions: 
1. The members of the Board of Governors are not 
eligible for participation in the Thrift Plan. 
2. The total amount in the Thrift Plan at the end of 
1970 was $54,429,429, of which approximately $45,000,000 was 
transferred from the annuity accumulation account that had 
operated since 1934. 
3. During 1970, employees placed a little over $8,900,000 
in the Thrift Plan, mainly through payroll deductions but partly 
in lump sum contributions on which there is no matching by the 
Federal Reserve. Contributions of the Federal Reserve Board 
and the Reserve Banks were just under $1,900,000, including 
payment of the costs of administering the plan during its first 
year of operation. 
This cost to the Federal Reserve was equal 
to 3-1/2 per cent of the total amount in the fund at year-end. 
More pertinent is the fact that the cost to the Federal Reserve 
of this extremely beneficial management tool is approximately 
1 per cent of payroll. The reaction of employees in all salary 
categories has made it clear that this expenditure has a far 
greater value in benefiting the Board and the Banks and in 
assisting with their employment problems than would a much 
larger amount paid in direct wages. 
4. The actual participation in the plan is relatively 
high and--as one would expect--rises somewhat with salary. 
W 

1861 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-3-
Almost 90 per cent of eligible employees participate 
(employees with less than one year's service are not 
eligible to enroll), and as shown in the tabulation below, 
participation by employees whose salaries are $10,000 or 
less per year is over 87 per cent. 
Federal Reserve System Thrift Plan Participants 
by Salary Category--1971 
-Salary Group 
Number of Employ< aes 
Total 
Eligible but 
Per cent of 
eligible to 
Actually 
not partici-
eligibles 
participate 
participating 
pating 
participating 
14,104 
12,327 
1,777 
87.4 
2,938 
2,835 
103 
96.5 
503 
485 
18 
96.4 
153 
149 
4 
97.3 
17,698 
15,796 
1,902 
89.3 
,000 or less 
001-20,000 
$20,001-30,000 
^30,001 and over 
Total System 
The above table includes both Bank and Board employees. 
Participation 
by eligible Board staff at 70 per cent is noticeably lower than at the 
Reserve Banks, no doubt partly because all Board staff are required to 
pay 7 per cent of their salaries toward their retirement fund, whereas 
the Bank employees do not contribute to their pension fund, although 
they pay the social security tax of 5.2 per cent of covered wages. 
5. The Thrift Plan holds no securities in the ordinary 
sense, and we do not have specific knowledge of purchases and 
sales of investments or of the composition of the assets. 
However, as shown by the attached contracts, the Plan has a 
claim against the general fund or commingled funds of two 
insurance companies and a trustee bank with which the plan 
contracts for investment management services. As an example, 
since 85 per cent of the Thrift Plan's assets are in a fixed 
income fund managed by the Equitable Life Assurance Society, 
we can estimate from that company's annual report that 
approximately 45 per cent of those funds are held in mortgages; 
37 per cent in bonds; 7 per cent in policy loans, and 3 per 
cent each in common stocks and real estate investments. But 
the Thrift Plan savers and the plan supervisors have no more 
knowledge of specific investments than any other person having 
access to the published report. In a similar way, we know 
that the equity funds (about 15 per cent of the total Thrift 
Plan assets) are invested in some large numbers of securities 
as evidenced by the annual reports of each of the five firms 
with which the Thrift Plan contracts--3 per cent each in two 

186 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-4-
commingled funds and 3 per cent each in three mutual funds. 
The securities of the latter are shown in the annual 
prospectus of each, copies of which are enclosed. But the 
share of Thrift Plan assets is a very minor percentage (2 
per cent or less) of the claims against each of these large 
general funds. 
The Board's Annual Reports have, of course, listed as a 
separate item under current expenses the expenditures for "Retirement 
and Other Benefits." 
The 56th Annual Report indicated on page 337 
that after the Thrift Plan became operative in 1970, this item would 
include contributions to the Thrift Plan. The 57th Annual Report 
covering 1970 contains on page 212 an explanatory notation regarding 
participation by Board employees in the Thrift Plan including a 
statement that the Board adds a fixed percentage to allowable employee 
savings. 
With regard to your question as to the holdings of individuals 
participating in the Thrift Plan, we presume that your interest is in 
knowing the amounts of incentive contributions that the Federal Reserve 
has made or may make in individual cases. The total of an individual's 
holdings would not disclose this and in fact would be seriously mis-
leading since for many employees it includes amounts saved over a long 
period of years when there were no matching contributions, the amounts 
saved in excess of 6 per cent of salary since the Thrift Plan became 
operative, and earnings credited on those savings. The maximum Federal 
Reserve matching contribution for any individual is readily ascertain-
able, however, since it may not exceed 1-1/2 per cent of the individual' 
salary, and would be lower if he was saving less than 6 per cent of his 
salary in the Thrift Plan. In accordance with current procedures, the 
Federal Reserve has set a maximum dollar limit of $750 a year for 
matching contributions for any individual regardless of salary. 
The accompanying list of attachments identifies briefly the 
contracts and other items transmitted with this letter in response 
to your request. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosures 

186 o 
O 
List of exhibits to be enclosed with letter to 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
1. 
Brochure issued to all employees of the Federal Reserve 
System under date of October 14, 1969, describing revision 
of the benefits program and outlining in some detail the 
Thrift Plan. 
2. 
Letter addressed to employees of the Board of Governors 
under date of April 15, 1971, providing information 
regarding participation in the Thrift Plan for employees 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
3. 
Letter from Equitable Life Assurance Society dated 
December 23, 1969, to Trustee of Thrift Plan regarding 
agreement as to services to be rendered by Equitable as 
administrator. 
4. 
Group Annuity Contract #AC 2415, effective January 1, 1970, 
between Equitable and Trustee providing for investment of 
the "Fixed Income Fund" of the Thrift Plan for the period 
ending December 31, 1974. 
5. 
Group Annuity Contract #GA 1941 between Prudential Insurance 
Company of America and Trustee of the Thrift Plan providing 
for the investment of one-fifth of the funds of the "Equity 
Fund" of the Thrift Plan. 
6. 
Group Annuity Contract #GA 1943, effective January 1, 1970, 
between Prudential and Trustee of the Thrift Plan and the 
Trustees of the Retirement Plan for employees of the Federal 
Reserve System providing for annuities to be issued by 
Prudential in connection with withdrawals under the Thrift 
Plan, and payments to retirees under the Retirement Plan. 
7. 
Trust Agreement dated January 1, 1970 between Morgan 
Guaranty Trust Company of New York and Trustee of the Thrift 
Plan providing for investment by Morgan Guaranty of one-fifth 
of the funds of the "Equity Fund" of the Thrift Plan. 
8. 
Application to Wellington Management Company for purchase 
of shares in the Windsor Fund on behalf of Thrift Plan for 
employees of the Federal Reserve System, filed by Trustee 
of the Thrift Plan under date of December 23, 1970; and 
similar applications for purchase of shares of deVegh Mutual 
Fund, Inc. and The Johnston Mutual Fund Inc. 
9. 
Copies of latest available Prospectus of deVegh Mutual Fund, 
Inc., The Johnston Mutual Fund Inc., and Windsor Fund, 
containing information as to schedule of investments of each 
as of a date indicated. 
30, 1971. 

1864 
Item No. 2 
lHl 
111 
CQNFIDENTIAL (FR) 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
July 29, 1971 
The Board has bccome increasingly concerned about rising 
costs throughout the System. While it is true that the Federal 
Reserve cannot combat .inflation single-handedly—by self-discipline 
in controlling expenses any more than by monetary policy—neverthe-
less, we have a. special obligation to act responsibly. 
The Board recognizes that control of costs is difficult 
during inflationary periods. 
It will be particularly difficult in 
the foreseeable future as the System undertakes a number of important 
new projects, such as expanded coin and currency service, regional 
check clearing, improved electronic communication, and implementation 
holding company legislation. 
As a first step toward tightening controls on costs here, 
a H Board division directors recently have been asked to conform to 
restrictive guidelines with respect to new budget proposals. 
The 
effect of the new budget posture at the Board will be to limit 
initiatives in most cases to those which can be offset by cost 
deductions in other programs and activities. 
As for the Reserve Banks, I know that in many cases manage-
ment and boards of directors are working toward more effective methods 
budgetary control and performance review. The Board is most 
interested in these efforts and wishes to encourage them. Many of 
these techniques, however, take considerable time to develop. 
In the 
meantime, the Board urges that a special effort be made to review costs. 
"This will involve taking a careful look at all programs and outlays 
with a view to eliminating those that are no longer producing results 
commensurate with the cost, and, in particular, with a view to 
Performing ongoing programs in a more efficient manner. In this 
connection, the Board proposes that each Federal Reserve Bank and 
branch office establish a formal cost control program designed to 
Accomplish these broad objectives. 

The budgets for the second half of this year, which have 
already been submitted to the Board, do not, of course, reflect the 
anticipated results of such a special cost control effort. 
We 
appreciate that instituting an effective program of this type will 
take some time, and that its specific content is best left for your 
managing officers and boards of directors to determine. 
Accordingly, 
it is suggested that each office prepare and forward, by September 1, 
1971, the following materials as a special supplement to its regular-
budgeting submissions: 
1. A general description of the cost control program 
that will be established at each office. 
2. A list of the policy objectives and cost targets 
that will guide the actions of those responsible 
for the program. 
i 
3. A description of the criteria and administrative 
procedure that will be used to measure management's 
success in achieving the cost reduction program 
objectives. 
Inasmuch as salary and related costs account for approximately 
60 per cent of total System expenses, special attention will need to 
be directed to that area. There is already under way a study of 
officers' salaries and how they relate to the market. This study is 
aimed for completion in time for the annual review of officers' 
salaries in the fall. The Board hopes to use the results of the study 
in this review. 
The Board recognizes the problem for nonofficial salaries 
created by cost-push inflation. Our employees should not be penalized 
simply because they happen to work for the central bank. On the other 
hand, the System should not aggravate inflation by excessive salary 
increases. 
One possible approach to an equitable resolution of the 
Problem is to set a fixed guideline for salary increases. For example, 
the Board has considered as such a guideline the figure of 6.2 per cent, 
^hich is tlie increase in average salaries (national) in 1970 for 
Professional, administrative, technical, and clerical personnel as 
reported by the U.S. Department of Labor. 
If Reserve Banks and branches 
were to hold increases in average salaries for 1971 and 197 2 to amounts 
at or below this figure, it might be said that they would be fairly 
compensating employees without irresponsibly adding to inflationary 
pressures. 

1866 
3-
A number of Reserve Banks recently have either requested or 
made adjustments in nonofficial salary structures to keep them in lin 
with local markets. 
So far these adjustments appear to be averaging 
about 6.2 per cent, a figure almost identical to that for 1970. The 
Board believes that such a national average is reasonable and still 
allows for differences among regions. Accordingly, it suggests that 
the increase in average salaries in any Bank be no greater than the 
percentage approved for structural changes. In its review of semi-
annual budgets, the Board will pay particular attention to salary 
administration as it affects overall costs. 
The Board hopes that the Board of Directors of each Reserve 
office will take an active interest in the cost control program. 
T h H r ^ P r i m c e and guidance should be most helpful in establishing 
the cost reduction program. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

u D 
1 
tEDEPAL ttfe^ERVE SYSTEM 
7/27/71*
 
3 
[12 CFR PART 269] 
POLICY ON UNIONIZATION AMD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
FOR THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Objections to Election Procedure 
Tte Board of Governors, pursuant to the authority conferred 
by 12 U.S.C. 248 proposes to add a new subparagraph (f) to § 269.5. 
The proposed subparagraph would (1) protect employees from 
any interference with their making a fair and free choice in select-
ing or rejecting a bargaining representative even if such interference 
does not constitute an unfair labor practice within the meaning of § 269.6 
(2) would authorize the Federal Reserve System Labor Relations 
panel to establish an expedited procedure to process charges of inter-
ference, to promulgate rules to guide the conduct of all parties, and 
to provide appropriate remedies when interference has been found to 
have affected the outcome of the election. 
The proposed subparagraph is set forth below: 
§ 269.5 Elections. 
*
*
*
*
* 
(f) 
(1) If at any time prior to an election, employees 
a Federal Reserve Bank evidence substantial interest in repre-
sentation by a union, whether or not a 30 per cent interest has yet 
been shown, it shall be encumbent on the Bank, a union, and all others 
to refrain from any conduct, action or policy that interferes with, 
Restrains or impedes employees from making a fair and free choice in 
Electing or rejecting a bargaining representative. 

, 
1868 
(2) A Bank, a union or employees are not precluded from 
exercise of the free speech privileges of 269.6(c) but such exercise 
way properly be held to be contrary to the intent of this section 
even if the conduct, action or policy in question does not constitute 
an unfair labor practice under 269.6(a), (1), (2) or (3) or 269.6(b), 
(1) or (2) of this Policy. 
(3) The Federal Reserve System Labor Relations Panel may 
Promulgate expedited procedures for prompt disposition of allegations 
that a violation of this section has affected the outcome of the election. 
(4) The Panel may determine whether there has been a violation 
this section and may render appropriate interpretations of this 
section, and may set forth as guidelines the circumstances the Panel 
believes necessary for a fair and free election by a Code of Preelection 
Conduct or by decision in specific cases. 
(5) In the event of a proven violation of this section by a 
Bank, by a union, or by other individuals or organizations the Panel 
m a y take appropriate remedial action such as the setting aside of the 
Results of an election and the ordering of a nex; election. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board of 
Governors, interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, 
views or arguments. Any such comments or materials should be submitted 
in 
writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than September 7, 
1971. 
By Order of the Board of Governors, July 27 > 1971. 
(signed) Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. 
1 111 111 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
LABOR RELATIONS PANEL 
July 30, 19 71 
Dear 
.!*:-.' -/'•'.; i 
• '' i ' . 
Enclosed for your information and comment are a pro-
posed amendment to the Board of Governors' Policy on Unionization 
and Collective Bargaining for the Federal Reserve Banks, together 
V7ith a "Code of Preelection Conduct" and "Rules and Regulations 
Pertaining to Election Conduct" proposed by the Federal Reserve 
i ' ' f!i 
• ' 
' . 
System Labor Relations Panel to implement the amendment. 
To assist you in your study of these documents, we 
have also enclosed a copy of the Panel's Report and Decision in 
the matter of Professional, Office and Industrial Union, MEBA 
UrL-CIO) v. Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the text of 
which indicates the Panel's intended application of the proposed 
Code and Rules and Regulations. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Paul M. Metzger 
Paul M. Metzger 
Secretary of the Panel 
Enclosures 

1870 
Item No. 5 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
7/27/71 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
July 29, 1971 
TREIBER - NEW YORK 
In its review of proposed building plan, Board expressed 
serious concern that the structure will not resolve Bank's security 
court problems, provide sufficient space for the wrapping of coin, 
arid meet your Bank's long-range space requirements. 
Therefore, 
Board requests that along with proposed building your Bank proceed 
with necessary planning to establish remotely located facility 
(facilities) for currency, coin, and check collection operations 
and such other activities as might be appropriate, such as data 
processing, bank examinations, etc. Facility (facilities) should 
be located outside congested traffic and high cost areas but 
readily accessible to rapid vehicular and adequate air transporta-
tion facilities. 
Further development of plans with respect to proposed 
building is contingent upon and should reflect decision with 
respect to establishment of remote facility (facilities). With 
respect to plans, any request for variances to zoning regulations 
should be based solely on merits of the design concept of the 
building, i.e., no variances should be requested based on concept 
that Federal Reserve need not (since it must) fully meet require-
ments of municipal ordinances. 
KENYON 

n i l 111 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
I t - N o
1
§
7
± 
U C A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
July 29, 1971 
MORRIS - BOSTON 
Board has reviewed and accepts space program for 
proposed building as revised by your Bank on July 20, 1971. 
Board also notes that unit cost target prepared by Bank's 
architect and transmitted to Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations on February 3, 1971, appears consistent with Build-
ing Guidelines. 
KFNYON 

1872 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
7/27/71 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A l . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TD T H E 
B O A R D 
July 28, 1971 
Mr. Robert P. Black 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 
23213 
Dear Mr. Black: 
The Board has considered your request for approval to employ 
an architect for the proposed new Baltimore Branch building on the 
Inner Harbor site. 
The Board will interpose no objection to your Bank's proceeding 
with the selection of an architect, and authorizes you to proceed with 
(1) the exploration of other available sites and to prepare comparative 
site feasibility studies of at least two additional sites, and (2) the 
development of a detailed departmental space program for the Branch's 
present and future space needs. In this regard, the question of whether 
the regional check clearing center should be planned in the same building 
with the Branch's check collection department or in a separate facility 
should be held open. 
On the matter of site exploration, the Bank's study should 
evaluate cost differentials in relation to land values and costs that 
would be associated with unusual subsurface soil conditions, such as: 
the need for piling or caissons, rock excavation, special waterproofing, 
flood prevention, etc. Other considerations that should be incorporated 
in the study are: 
size of building site, estimated cost, zoning ordi-
nances or regulations that might restrict the building size, require set-
backs, restrict land coverage or maximum building area, adjacent street 
widths, access to the site, adequacy of the existing or proposed new 
utilities, flexibility of site usage, nature of any improvements on the 
site that might create problems because of existing leases and any 
other information that might be useful to the Board in considering 
the adequacy of a building site. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
