MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 2, 1972 

141.0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, June 2, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1J 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
The staff presented the regular weekly review of economic and 
financial conditions. 
Copies of the relevant documentation have been 
placed in the Board's files. Mr. Cardon then commented on Congres-
sional actions of interest to the Board. 
A number of staff members who had attended for purposes of 
the review then withdrew and the following entered the room: 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1.411 
6/2/72 
-2-
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson and Miss Hart, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved an inter-
pretation of Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, concluding 
that extensions of credit by broker/dealers for the purpose of future 
retirement of straight debt securities as provided under a sinking 
fund agreement are not subject to margin requirements. Attached as 
Item No. 1 is a copy of the letter sent to counsel for the brokerage 
firm that had raised the question. 
It was understood that the Federal 
Reserve Banks would be informed of the substance of the letter. 
The Board unanimously approved publication for comment of 
proposed amendments to Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, 
to allow broker/dealers not affiliated with issuers of insurance premium 
funding programs to arrange for credit to purchase such programs and 
also to sell unrelated mutual fund shares. A copy of the notice published 
in the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to all Federal Reserve 
Banks requesting that registered bank holding companies be instructed 
to report to the Reserve Banks each change in ownership or control of 
the voting shares of the holding company that will result in a change 
in control of the company. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 

1412 
6/2/72 
-7-
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
National State Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey, to acquire shares 
of First National State Bank of Central Jersey, Trenton, New Jersey, 
the successor by merger to The Security National Bank of Trenton. 
The Board also authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved, for transmittal to the Comp-
troller of the Currency, a report on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of The Farmers Bank, Woodland, North Carolina, 
into North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, North Carolina. 
The 
conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Farmers Bank, 
Woodland, into North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, would 
eliminate a small amount of present and potential competition. 
Farmers Bank is presently the largest bank in the local market, 
and the proposal would continue to increase the concentration 
of banking resources held by the State's largest banking insti-
tutions. Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be adverse. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Pes Moines RCPC. The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had 
submitted a proposal for the establishment of a Regional Check Pro-
cessing Center to be located in Des Moines, Iowa. 
In a memorandum 
of May 30, 1972, the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans recommended that the Board approve the establishment 

1413 
6/2/72 
-7-
of the center, subject to resolution to the satisfaction of the Com-
mittee of several controversial provisions of the proposal. 
At today's meeting Governor Sheehan stated that all of the 
questions in the memorandum had been resolved with the Reserve Bank 
except the location of the center within the City of Des Moines. 
The 
Board unanimously approved the proposal and delegated to the Committee 
the resolution of the problem regarding location. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to this action is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
Report on competitive factors. The Board unanimously approved, 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, a report on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of North Davis 
Bank, Layton, Utah, and First Security Bank of Utah, National Asso-
ciation, Ogden, Utah. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is some competition existing between North Davis Bank, 
Layton, and First Security Bank of Utah, National Association, 
Ogden, a subsidiary of First Security Corporation, Salt Lake City, 
a multi-bank holding company, and there is potential for increased 
competition between them. First Security Corporation now holds 
about 29 per cent of the deposits in all banks in the State, which 
concentration would be increased, although slightly, by consum-
mation of the merger. The overall effect on competition would 
be adverse. 
Hawkeye Bancorporation. 
Documents had been drafted to imple-
ment the Board's actions on May 18, 1972, approving six applications 
and denying one application by Hawkeye Bancorporation, Des Moines, 

1414 
6/2/72 
-7-
Iowa, to acquire banks in Iowa. In a memorandum of Hay 30, the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation reported that the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago had received in confidence information that another 
bank holding company in Iowa anticipated acquiring the Hawkeye orga-
nization following consummation of the proposals before the Board. 
Discussion at today's meeting centered principally on the 
fact that, after discussion of the applications of Hawkeye Bancorpo-
ration on May 4, because of divergent recommendations of the Chicago 
Reserve Bank and the Board's staff, and questions raised regarding 
the character of the holding company's management, the Board requested 
that members of its staff and of the staff of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago meet with representatives of the holding company. The 
Board's staff had considered the assurances received during that 
meeting satisfactory and had renewed their recommendations that 6 
of the 7 applications be approved. The Chicago Reserve Bank had modi-
fied its recommendations to call for approval of 5 of the 7 applications, 
although the Bank continued to have reservations about the holding 
company's management. 
During the meeting held at the Chicago Reserve 
Bank, the principal officer of the holding company had stressed that 
his management had strengthened the subsidiary banks but did not men-
tion that there were negotiations in process or contemplated looking 
toward possible sale of the holding company. 

1415 
6/2/72 
-7-
Governors Mitchell and Daane expressed the view that the 
possibility of a forthcoming proposal to acquire Hax^keye Bancorpora-
tion was not necessarily germane to the present situation; the Board 
could consider all related questions if and when that proposal was 
presented. Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and Sheehan, however, 
were of the opinion that the apparent lack of forthrightness again 
raised questions regarding management. Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer expressed a present disposition to change their votes. 
Staff comments brought out that while there was justification 
for holding that the management issue was still before the Board, 
denial of the applications on that ground would require more demon-
strable proof than was now available regarding the failure to disclose 
negotiations. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the 
matter would be considered further. 
United Missouri Bancshares. 
In a memorandum of May 11, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, 
to acquire shares of Manufacturers and Mechanics Bank of Kansas City, 
also of Kansas City, Missouri. After discussion at the meeting on 
May 30, 1972, the Board requested additional information regarding 
several aspects of the application, which was supplied by Mr. Leavitt 
in a memorandum of June 1. 

1416 
6/2/72 
-7-
At today's meeting the application was approved unanimously 
and issuance of an order reflecting that decision was authorized. 
A 
copy of the order is attached under Item No. 6, along with a copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant. 
Independent Bankers Association. 
In a memorandum of June 1, 
19 72, Mr. Melnicoff commented on a request by the Independent Bankers 
Association that the Board schedule a formal hearing regarding its 
pending proposals relating to reserve requirements and check clearance. 
Messrs. Holland and Melnicoff had had a telephone conversation with 
officers of the Association, indicating that formal hearings were not 
appropriate procedure with respect to regulatory proposals of this 
type, and that the banking community had already been given full 
opportunity to express its views both in x^riting and in numerous 
meetings both at the Board and at the Federal Reserve Banks. 
However, 
an offer had been made by Board staff to arrange an informal meeting 
for representatives of the Association with available members of the 
Board and key staff members. The Association's acceptance or rejection 
of that proposal was expected today, and it was hoped that the Asso-
ciation would withdraw its request for a formal hearing. 
If it did 
not, however, it was felt, for reasons stated in the memorandum, that 
the request should be denied. 

6/2/72 
8 
Discussion indicated a general view that a formal hearing 
should not be held, but that there would be no objection to an 
informal hearing. However, it was agreed that a decision on that 
question should be deferred pending receipt of the Association's 
response to the staff's suggestions. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1418 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
^ * 
^ 
.•''oVcoV'. 
g f 
t h e 
* 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/ 2/ 7 2 
M i i l t e 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
0^2055! 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CnHRESPONDENCr 
TO THE BC1ADD 
June 5, 1972 
Edmund H. Kerr, Esq., 
Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, 
52 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Dear Mr. Kerr: 
This will refer to your memorandum of February 17, 197 2, 
submitted on behalf of Salomon Brothers, a registered broker/dealer, 
in which you request that the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System ("Board") permit brokers or dealers to extend credit 
to issuers of corporate bonds for the purpose of enabling the issuers 
to retire such bonds pursuant to specific provisions of a Sinking 
Fund. 
At the present time, brokers or dealers may extend such 
credit on "good faith" terms only in the case of bonds registered on 
a national securities exchange, as permitted by sections 220.4(0 
and 220.8(b) (the Supplement) of Regulation T. They may not do so 
in the case of unlisted bonds. Accordingly, you ask that the Board 
include unlisted bonds in its 0TC Margin List or alternatively issue 
an interpretation to cover the situation described below. 
The Board believes for the reasons stated below that it is 
appropriate to grant relief in this situation. The first alternative 
presents certain administrative difficulties, but the Board concludes 
that although the question is not free from doubt, the second alter-
native represents a correct analysis under the circumstances outlined 
herein. 
These circumstances are as follows: A corporation has an 
outstanding bond issue subject to a Sinking Fund. The Sink ng Fund 
provisions require that the corporation re deem annu 
y a e 
ted 
portion of the outstanding issue. It can do this eitner J F 
its bonds in the open market and then delivering them to the trustee 
to satisfy the Sinking Fund requirements, or it can pay cash into th. 
Sinking Fund with which to redeem the designated portion of bond.,. 

13 OARO or GUVERNDRS DF THE. FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1419 
Edmund H. Kerr, Esq. 
- 2 -
Tl.e corporation may find it advantageous to purchase bonds 
in advance of the Sinking Fund date, taking advantage of low prices 
in the bond market. 
Salomon Brothers would purchase the bonds in the 
open market, as agent for the corporation, in advance of the Sinking 
Fund date and use its own money for such purchase. This transaction 
would involve an extension of credit by--the broker since the cor-
poration must repay the broker when the bonds are actually retired. 
In the meantime, however, the bonds are held by the broker as 
collateral for the credit. 
The Board 5s of the view that under the above-stated specific 
circumstances, the extension of credit by the broker;to the corporation 
to enable it to retire debt securities would not ultimately be for the 
purpose of "purchasing securities" and such credit could therefore be 
extended pursuant to section 220.4(f)(8) (the Special Miscellaneous 
Account in Regulation T), if the following conditions are met: 
(3) The debt securities must have been issued 
under a Sinking Fund providing for mandatory 
retirements at periodic intervals; 
(2) the corporate issuer shall furnish an irrevocable 
written undertaking to the broker, to be kept in 
the Special Miscellaneous Account of Regulation T 
(§ 22.0.4(f)) for at least six years after the date 
when the credit is extinguished, that the debt 
sec\iri.ties purchased in advance of the Sinking 
Fund date will be retired on the date next as 
specified by the Sinking Fund; and 
(3) the credit is extinguished on or before such 
date next and the debt securities are so retired. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith, 
Secretary of the Board. 

1420 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6/2/72 
[12 CFR PART 220] 
[REG. T] 
CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
Credit for the Combined Acquisition 
of Mutual Fund Shares and insurance 
The Board of Governors proposes to amend Part 220 (Regu-
lation T) by eliminating from § 220.4(k) the requirement that, in 
°rder to be eligible for the provisions of that section, a creditor 
wust be the issuer, or a subsidiary or affiliate of the issuer, of 
Programs which combine the acquisition of mutual fund shares and 
insurance. 
§ 220.4(k) would also be amended to permit creditors who 
arrange credit for the acquisition of mutual fund shares and insurance 
to sell mutual fund shares without insurance under the provisions of 
§ 220.4(c) - Special Cash Account - of Regulation T. 
The designation of § 220.4(k) would be changed to "Special 
insurance premium funding account:". 
The text of the proposed amendment reads as follows: 
§ 22.0.4 - SPECIAL ACCOUNTS 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(k) Special insurance premium funding account. 
In a special 
insurance premium funding account a creditor may arrange for the 
extension or maintenance of credit, not in excess of the premiums on 
insurance policy (plus any applicable interest), on a security 
issued by an investment company registered pursuant to section 8 

1421 
2 -
of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8) that serves 
as collateral under a plan, program, or investment contract registered 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act 
Of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77), that provides for the acquisition both of a 
security issued by ouch investment company and of insurance: 
Provided, 
That such credit is extended or maint.ai.wd by a lender subject to 
Part 207 of this Chapter (Regulation G) or a bank subject to Part 221 
of this Chapter (Regulation U). A creditor arranging credit in a 
special insurance premium funding account shall not extend, arrange, 
or maintain credit in the general account or any other special account 
in § 5 220.3 and 220.4 of this part, except for transactions involving 
the purchase of shares, in the special cash account described in 
5 220.4(c), in investment companies which are so registered. 
To aid in the consideration by the Board of these proposed 
amendments, interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, 
views, or arguments in writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be 
received not later than July 7, 1972. Such material will be made 
avail able for inspection and copying upon request, except as provided 
in , 201.1(a) of the Board-s Rules Regarding Availability of Information. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 2, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
A s s i s t a n t Secretary of the Board, 
(SEAL) 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
6/2/72 
S-2199 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R O 
June 5, 1972 
M 
The Board, acting pursuant to section 5(c) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act and section 225.5(b) of Regulation Y, has determined that a 
bank holding company should report each change in ownership or control 
voting shares of the holding company that will result in a change 
in control of the company. 
The purpose of these reports is to enable the Board to determine 
the extent to which there are combinations of banking and commerce and 
concentrations of banking resources that arc not prohibited or regulated 
under the Bank Holding Company Act. Section 5(d) of the Act requires 
the Board to make an annual report to Congress on "what, if any, substan-
tial difficulties have been encountered in carrying out the purposes of 
this Act, and any recommendations as to changes in the law which in the 
°pinion of the Board would be desirable." The reports prepared by bank 
holding companies should be helpful to the Board in the performance of 
its duties under the Bank Holding Company Act, and especially under 
section 5(d) of the Act. Such reports will parallel reports relating to 
changes in control of State member banks now made under section 7(j) of 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. 
The Board asks that each Federal Reserve Bank send a letter to 
the president of each registered bank holding company within its District 
along the following lines: 
Whenever a change occurs, after July 1, 1972, 
in the ownership or control of the outstanding voting 
stock of your company that will result in a change in 
control of the company, the president (or other chief 
executive officer) of your company shall report these 
facts to this Federal Reserve Bank immediately after 
the occurence of the change in control. 
For purposes of these reports, the term "control" 
means control as defined in section 2 of the Bank 
Holding Company Act and as described in section 225.2 

of the Board's Regulation Y> in"the case of control by 
any company. In the case of control by an individual or 
group of individuals> the term "control" means the power 
to exercise a controlling influence over the management 
or policies of your company (see. § 7(j) of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act). A change in control of less than 
5 per cent: of the voting shares of your company need 
not be reported. If there is doubt as to whether a change 
in control should be reported, the doubt should ordinarily 
be resolved in favor of reporting. 
The reports required should contain the following 
items of information: 
1) number of shares involved; 
2) names of the transferors; 
3) names of the transferees; 
4) the purchase price of the shares; 
5) total number of shares held by the 
transferors; and 
6) total number of shares held by the 
transferees. 
If either the transferors or the transferees are holding 
title on behalf of someone else, the names of such bene-
ficial owners should be given * 
Any other information relating to the effect of the 
overall transaction upon control of the company should 
also be given. 
Very truly yours. 
Tynan Smith 
• of the Board 
T ° Tile PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND Tlffi v i c e PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

1
,-V O , TI 
4 ^ 4 
Item No. 4 
6/2/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL STATE BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National State Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A ct, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire up to 100 per cent of the 
v°ting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of First National 
State Bank of Central Jersey, Trenton, New Jersey, the successor by 
m e rger to The Security National Bank of Trenton, Trenton, New Jersey 
("Security National"). The bank into which Security National is to 
be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the 
Acquisition of Security National. Accordingly, the proposed acqui-
sition of the shares of the successor organization is treated here-
i n 
a s the proposed acquisition of shares of Security National. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and none has been timely received. The 
Board has considered the application in the light of the factors 
S e t forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls five banks with aggregate deposits of 
$1.2 b i l H o n ) representing 6.2 per cent of the total commercial 
b 3 n k deposits in New Jersey and is the largest banking organization 

in the State. 
Acquisition of Security National ($54 million deposits) 
•would increase Applicant's share of New Jersey Bank deposits by .4 per-
centage points. 
Applicant presently operates 45 offices in New Jersey's 
First Banking District and 11 offices in the Second Banking District, 
controlling 10.9 and 2.0 per cent of the banking deposits in these 
respective Districts. 
Its lead bank ($930 million deposits) com-
petes actively for retail and wholesale banking business throughout 
the State and to some degree in New York City. Applicant acquired 
the four remaining small and locally oriented banks the latter 
Part of 1970. 
Security National is the twenty-sixth largest of 63 banks 
in the Second Banking District and the sixth largest of 27 banks in 
the Trenton Market which consists primarily of Mercer County but 
encompasses portions of Hunterdon, Somerset, Middlesex, Monmouth 
clnd Burlington Counties, and Bucks County, Pennsylvania. 
It con-
trols 1,2 per cent and 4.1 per cent of the District and Market 
deposits, respectively. Consummation of the proposal would not 
adversely affect any area banks. 
The closest office of Applicant's subsidiaries to Trenton 
where Security National operates its two offices is 26 miles north-
G a s t . 
Security National has received approval for a second branch 
Banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect holding 
c°mpany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
APril 30, 
1 9 7 2 . 

1426 
- 3 -
°ffice to be located in Lawrence, a township 8 miles north of Trenton. 
There is no substantial amount of present competition between any of 
Applicant's subsidiary banking offices and Security National. More-
0ver, the likelihood of meaningful future competition developing 
between them is minimized due to the distances separating the banks, 
Nevj Jersey's restrictive branching laws, and the relatively small 
size of Security National. Consequently, consummation of the pro-
posal would have no significant adverse effect on present or poten-
t i al competition. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant are 
8atisfactory and its prospects appear favorable. 
Applicant proposes 
t o strengthen the capital position of Security National and to also 
remedy a potential management succession problem. Prospects for 
Security National under Applicant's control appear favorable and con-
secrations relating to banking factors lend some weight toward 
aPproval of the application. Applicant proposes to enable Security 
^ational to offer new services which would include a personal trust 
Se*vice and data processing. Applicant would also enable Security _ 
^ational to serve customers with larger credit needs and would assist 
the expansion of the bank's present international department. 
therefore, considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
thp 
communities involved are consistent with approval of the appli-
Cation. 
jt is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
be in the public interest and that the application should be 
aPproved, 

1427 
-4-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 2, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell 
Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

20 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 5 
6/2/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 5, 1972 
Mr. Robert P. Mayo, President 
federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Dear Mr. Mayo: 
The Board has reviewed and approves your proposal to 
establish a Regional Check Processing Center in Des Moines, Iowa, 
with the understanding that the facility should operate with one 
Burroughs B-3500 central processing unit and with a target ceiling 
of 202 employees to be achieved approximately eight months from 
the start of operation. 
It is understood that both of these matters 
were discussed with you and are agreeable. 
In view of the present situation regarding the statutory 
building proper" limitation, the Board believes that expenditures 
property acquisition should be postponed until such time as the 
present limitation has been increased. 
In the interest of expedit-
ing the opening of the Des Moines RCPC, the Board is hopeful that 
the question of locating a suitable site for lease can be satis-
factorily resolved at an early date and has directed its staff to 
meet with you on this issue as soon as possible. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

1429 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o- 6 
6/2/72 
UNITED MISSOURI BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t» has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Manufacturers and Mechanics Bank of Kansas City, Kansas City, 
Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
anc* views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant is the fourth largest bank holding company and the 
°urth largest banking organization in Missouri by virtue of its control 
n 
banks with $503.5 million in deposits, representing 4.4 per cent 
Of tbo 
le total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are 
June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and 
a C q U i s i t i ° n s approved by the Board through April 30, 1972.) Applicant's 
I e a d bank, City National Bank and Trust Company ("City National") ($369.2 
^lion deposits), is located in downtown Kansas City and, with control 
of 10 L 
' H 
cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in the Kansas 
U y 
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA"), is the second largest 
bank n operating in the Kansas City banking market. 

143 
-3-
Bank ($16.8 million deposits), located in Kansas City 
approximately four miles east of Applicant's lead bank, is one of 
the smaller banks operating in the Kansas City market, holding only 
about .5 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the Kansas 
CJ-ty SMSA. While both Bank and City National are located in the same 
market area, consummation of the proposal would eliminate little existing 
o r Potential competition. 
Because of its conservative management and 
operating policies Bank has not been an effective alternative source 
o f banking services for the lower and middle income families residing 
"ichin its service area and has not been an effective competitor to 
C i t y National or the other area banks. Further, in light of the large 
number of alternatives for banking services available in the Kansas City 
market, the elimination of bank as an independent alternative would have 
U o significant adverse effects. Applicant is not dominant in the market 
J upon consummation of the proposal would control slightly less than 
11 
Per cent of deposits in the market. The Board concludes therefore 
t^at consummation of the proposal would not eliminate any significant 
listing competition, foreclose significant potential competition or 
^ a v e a ny undue adverse effect on any bank in the area involved. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of Applicant and its present subsidiaries 
a re regarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval of the appli-
Cation. Although the prospects of Bank are regarded as satisfactory, 
t h e y should be enhanced as a result of consummation of the proposal. 

Although the record indicates that the major banking needs of the 
area are being met, Bank's low loan-to-deposit ratio indicates that 
^ank has not been aggressive in meeting the needs of the low income 
residents of its service area. 
In addition to broadening Bank's lending 
Program, Applicant proposes to offer new services which, although available 
a t Appli c a n t' s lead bank, have not heretofore been offered at Bank's 
location, These changes will make Bank more responsive to the particular 
needs of its area. Thus, considerations relating to convenience and 
needs lend some weight toward approval of the application. 
It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tlle reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
o r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 2, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
tchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
hairman Burns. 

24 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E E P O N D C N C E 
T D 
T H E 
N U A R O 
Juno 2, 1972 
A ^ R _ M A I T ^ r e c ISTERED 
RgjHJRN l^CEIPT REQUESTED 
United Missouri Bancshares, Inc. 
9 2 8 Grand Avenue 
-Kansas City, Missouri 
64106 
Gentlemen: 
'""'The Board~of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., for 
Permission to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Manufacturers and Mechanics Bank of Kansas City, Kansas City, Missouri. 
Enclosed are the Board's Order and press release relating 
t o this action. 
In taking this action, the Board took into consideration 
he personal ownership by Mr. R. Crosby Kemper, Sr. of stock in Central 
ank. 
in this connection, the Board indicated that its action approving 
e present application was based on assurances that reasonable efforts 
^ 0 u L d 
made by Mr. Kemper to dispose of his stock interest in Central 
ank at the earliest practical date and that Mr. Kemper would refrain 
future from purchasing any additional shares in Central Bank. 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order . 
yefating to the time within which the acquisition herein approved 
l s to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be 
8lver». in writing to the Federal. Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 
