MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 27, 1969 

V* >'•> 1 
O^OJ./tt 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 27, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 2/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Economic review. Members of the research staff presented a 
review of selected international financial developments and domestic 
business and financial conditions of the kind customarily offered in 
advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, the reports 
being based to some extent on materials that had been distributed in 
preparation for tomorrow's meeting of the Committee. Copies of the 
relevant materials have been placed in the files of the Committee. 
V 
w 
Entered meeting at point 
Other officers and staff 
indicated in minutes. 
of the Division also were present. 

10/27/69 
-2-
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions other than Messrs. Partee and Keir withdrew from 
the meeting, as did Messrs. Bernard and Morgan. 
Chairman Martin joined the meeting at this point, along with 
the following members of the staff: 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. 0
T
Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 
Chase Manhattan. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to continue to hold stock of Banco Lar Brasileiro S.A. 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, after acquisition by the latter of stock of 
Companhia Distribuidora de Valores, Sao Paulo, Brazil. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Trust department assets. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency Committee, 
in the form attached as Item No. 2, in response to his letter of Septem 
ber 25, 1969, in which he referred to the recently published booklet, 
Trust Assets of Insured Commercial Banks - 1968, and suggested ways in 

3216 
10/27/69 
-3-
which he felt that the data could be made more useful in the future. 
The booklet was a joint publication of the three Federal bank supervisory 
agencies, and it was understood that Mr. Patman had written to each of 
them. 
The reply, as transmitted, incorporated a suggestion by Governor 
Brimmer that a statement be included that, in connection with future 
surveys, if such were made, consideration would be given to restructuring 
the published data derived from such surveys, including indentification 
of the larger trust departments. 
Minneapolis building program. Unanimous approval was given to 
a telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis authorizing 
expenditures not in excess of $33,626,000 for construction of a new 
Bank building. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Emergency credit. In an undated memorandum addressed to the 
Cabinet Committee on Construction and Study Group on Mortgage Finance 
on the subject Position on Mortgage Finance, Herbert Stein, a member 
of the Council of Economic Advisers, stated that it had been decided 
that there would be no overall public statement on mortgage finance, 
either by the President or by the Cabinet Committee, that at least for 
the present decisions in this field would be announced from time to time 
a s
 seemed appropriate, but that nevertheless the Cabinet Committee should 
x
f possible agree on a present policy for housing finance as a basis for 
decisions still to be made or for subsequent public statements. He stated 
that the policy on which the Mortgage Finance Study Group had agreed 

3217 
10/27/69 
-4-
included several points, one of which was as follows: The Federal 
Reserve Bank should restate its 1966-67 policy authorizing the Federal 
Reserve Banks to make credit available to nonmember depository-type 
institutions and Federal Home Loan Bank under emergency conditions. 
In a memorandum to the members of the Board dated October 23, 
1969, Governor Maisel noted that he had received the aforementioned 
memorandum from Mr. Stein and stated that if the Board was agreeable 
to publishing its policy of acting as a lender of last resort he would 
plan to tell Mr. Stein that he personally approved the Stein memorandum 
but thought the item in question should be reworded as follows: 
The 
Federal Reserve Board should restate publicly its 1966-67 policy autho-
rizing the Federal Reserve Banks, to the limit of the present authority, 
to make credit available to nonmember depository-type institutions and 
Federal Home Loan Banks under emergency conditions. 
Governor Maisel also noted that on September 24 the Board had 
sent to the Federal Reserve Banks a memorandum prepared by Mr. Keir 
under date of July 3, 1969. He understood that copies also had been 
sent to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, but that no comments 
bad been received to date. 
The Keir memorandum pointed out that nonbank thrift institutions 
were expected to experience sizable net losses of savings during the 
post interest and dividend crediting period then getting under way. As 
a part of their general contingency preparation for the expected July 

O / i l o 
10/27/69 
-5-
liquidity squeeze, several financial institutions had made inquiries 
at Federal Reserve Banks, their purpose being to determine whether the 
System was still prepared, as in 1966 and as recommended in the study 
of the discount mechanism, to serve as a lender of last resort for 
nonmember financial institutions should needs for emergency assistance 
develop. The memorandum reviewed past decisions on emergency credit 
assistance, particularly in 1966, evaluated the need for emergency credit 
assistance, and presented suggested guidelines for a new emergency credit 
assistance program if such a program should be decided upon. 
Governor Maisel said there was some feeling that it would be 
useful if the Board reissued its policy in some form. However, he would 
not want to agree in general if the other Board members had strong 
objections. As he understood it, the Board was awaiting comments on the 
Keir memorandum and would have to consider the matter further at the 
appropriate time. 
Mr. Holland said that he understood comments were likely to 
be received from the Home Loan Bank Board. The thought of the Board's 
staff had been to wait and see what happened in the light of developments. 
Governor Maisel then commented that when he was in California 
recently he had heard that a number of the major savings and loan associ-
ations were running close to the regulatory limit on their borrowings 
from the Home Loan Bank. The feeling appeared to be, he said, that 
everyone would be better off if the institutions did not try to build 
U
P their liquidity at this time, and that a statement by the Federal 
Reserve might have some effect. 

1.3 
10/27/69 
-6-
In response to a question, the staff reviewed the circumstances 
in which the 1966-67 policy was adopted and the reasoning behind the 
position taken in connection with the study of the discount mechanism. 
Governor Robertson suggested that it would seem advisable to wait 
until some comment was received from the Home Loan Bank Board, following 
which Mr. Partee noted that even in the Keir memorandum the details of 
procedure on lending to savings and loan associations had not been worked 
out. Governor Maisel indicated that he did not feel that that presented 
any critical problem. 
Governor Brimmer expressed himself negatively on the question 
of endorsing the suggestion in the Stein memorandum and restating the 
Board's policy at this time. In his opinion, a distinction should be 
made between a generalized emergency situation and a situation in which 
some individual savings and loan institutions got into difficulty. In 
the latter case, there were steps that could be taken by the Home Loan 
Bank System. 
Governor Maisel stated that according to his understanding of 
the Board's position in the past, the Board had considered that the 
situation would be critical if a number of large financial institutions 
were sound but illiquid. The question was one of what the Board would 
consider to be its responsibility if at a given time a number of large 
savings and loan associations were sound but were unable to meet their 
deposits. 

10/27/69 
-7-
Governor Brimmer replied that he assumed the first line of 
defense for savings and loan associations was still the Home Loan Bank 
System. The Home Loan Banks had access to the Treasury, and that was 
where they should go. He would not want to put out a statement 
encouraging any savings and loan association to feel that it could 
come direct to the Federal Reserve. 
Governor Sherrill said he agreed with Governor Maisel that 
the Federal Reserve had crossed the bridge on emergency lending and 
that if there was an emergency the Federal Reserve would respond to it. 
However, he was concerned about issuing a statement of policy along the 
lines suggested as part of a housing program. The concept would seem 
to indicate to savings and loans that they could operate in much less 
liquid fashion and that the Federal Reserve would cover them. 
After further discussion, Governor Robertson suggested that 
the best thing would be for Governor Maisel to say that the Board would 
consider the matter and would be in a position to move as and when 
necessary, but that the issuance of a statement should not be incorpo-
rated into the program outlined in the Stein memorandum. 
Mr. Keir then commented, in response to a question, on the 
Possibility of a situation arising in the near future that might call 
f°r Federal Reserve emergency lending for the benefit of depository-type 
nonmember institutions. As he now saw the situation, the prospect was 
rather remote until at least around the end of the year. 

10/27/69 
-8-
At Chairman Martin's suggestion, the matter was then tabled. 
Colonial Bank and Trust Company. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated October 20, 1969, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with the application of The 
Colonial Bank and Trust Company, Waterbury, Connecticut, to merge The 
Brooks Bank and Trust Company, Torrington, Connecticut. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated October 20, 1969, and 
other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with the 
application of The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connec-
ticut, to merge The Tradesmens National Bank of New Haven, New Haven, 
Connecticut. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration 
It was noted that in neither this nor the other Connecticut case 
had competitive factor reports been received as yet from the Justice 
Department. It was understood that they would be made available to 
the Board members when received, and before orders on the respective 
cases were issued. 
Access to Board records. In a memorandum dated October 17, 
1969, the Legal Division discussed an appeal for access to certain types 

10/27/69 
-9-
of Board records by a member of the task force which, under the 
direction of Mr. Ralph Nader, was surveying practices of several 
Government agencies. The appeal followed an exchange of correspondence 
in which it had been indicated, over staff signature, that certain 
records were not available for public inspection. Attached to the 
memorandum was a proposed reply that would in general sustain the 
staff determinations, while elaborating somewhat upon the policy 
supporting such determinations. The letter would also comment upon 
the extensiveness of the requests apparently contemplated by the task 
force and verify procedures for the imposition of charges for staff 
time involved in searching the Board's files. 
While suggestions were made for modifications in certain 
portions of the proposed reply, Board comments reflected general 
support for the basic approach, including agreement that the imposition 
of charges for staff time was justified. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter in the form 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Interest rate on V-loans. In a memorandum dated October 24, 
1969, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations discussed a request 
from the Department of the Air Force, on behalf of a commercial bank, 
that the Board give consideration to fixing for a specific guaranteed 
V-loan an interest rate of 9-1/2 per cent (1 per cent above the current 
prime rate of the financing institution). 
(The present maximum rate of 

10/21/69 
-10-
interest on such loans, prescribed by Regulation V, Loan Guarantees 
for Defense Production, was 7-1/2 per cent.) 
The Division outlined possible alternatives and suggested that 
a preferable option would be to allow the guaranteeing agency to 
set a rate higher than the present 7-1/2 per cent maximum, but not 
to exceed 9-1/2 per cent, when required in connection with any V-loan 
determined by that agency to be vital to the financing of an essential 
defense production contract. Attached to the memorandum was a draft 
amendment along those lines. Representatives of each of the guaranteeing 
agencies had indicated informally that there would be no objection to 
prescribing the V-loan interest rate in the proposed terms. 
After discussion, a consensus developed in favor of a suggestion 
that authority to prescribe without maximum limit a rate higher than 
7-1/2 per cent under certain conditions be in effect delegated to the 
respective agencies. 
Unanimous approval was then given effective immediately, to 
an amendment to Regulation V in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Copies 
of the letters sent to the Department of Defense (with similar letters 
to the other guaranteeing agencies) and to the Department of the Air 
Force relating to this action are attached as Items 6 and 7, respectively. 
Bills with regard to credit cards. In a memorandum dated 
October 23, 1969, the Legal Division discussed positions that might be 
taken in responding to requests from Congressional Committees for reports 

10/27/69 
-11-
on several pending bills relating to credit cards, including the 
unsolicited mailing thereof. With the memorandum there were submitted 
drafts of letters taking the positions recommended. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he endorsed the recommended 
positions, one of which would modify an earlier Board position. 
After further discussion, the Board approved unanimously a 
letter to Chairman Nix of the Subcommittee on Postal Operations of 
the House Committee on Post Office and Civil Service with respect to 
H.R. 13244, which would amend the postal laws to restrict the mailing 
of unsolicited credit cards, and a letter to Chairman Celler of the 
Senate Committee on the Judiciary with respect to five bills relating 
to credit cards, as cited in the letter. Copies of the letters are 
attached as Items 8 and 9, respectively. 
Retirement benefits. Pursuant to the recommendation contained 
in a memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
October 24, 1969, the Board approved unanimously a letter to the 
Secretary of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks advising 
of approval of an increase in the benefits under the Board Plan of the 
Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks in order to conform 
with the increased retirement benefits provided in Public Law 91-93. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 10. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
10/27/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P D N D E N 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 27, 1969 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of September 26, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation ("CMOBC") to continue to hold the stock of Banco 
Lar Brasileiro S.A. ("Banco Lar"), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, after 
Ear.co Lar acquires all of the stock of Companhia Distribuidora de 
Valores ("Codival"), Sao Paulo, Brazil, at a cost of approximately 
v1,500,000j provided the shares are acquired within one year frcin 
the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Codival by Banco Lar is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) 
That CMOBC shall not hold, d i r e c t l y or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Codival if Codival at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if Codival establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Codival as it may require from 
time to time; 

Chw.se Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2« 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Codival 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Codival were a corporation organ-
ized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That Danco Lar shall not carry on its books the shares 
of Codival at a net amount, in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of Codival, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Codival in Brazil 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bark of Mew York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of Codival. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made with the resources of 
Banco Lar and w:.ll not require any outflow of funds from the United 
States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

OOOHN 
{bjcoj-e;. 
E K P ^ ^ S * 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
G R T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5YE5TEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 5 0 6 5 1 
Item No. 2 
10/27/69 
<•/. 
: ' V V 
OFFICe 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 28, 1969 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
House Banking and Currency Committee, 
2129 Ra y burn Building, 
Washington* D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This has reference to your letter of September 25, 1969 ^ 
regarding the recently published booklet, "Trust Assets of Insured 
Commercial Batiks - 1.968." 
During discussions about publication of the trust, data, 
consideration was giver, to the use of standard metropolitan areas. 
However, it was concluded that presentation of data on an individual 
State basis (an well as other breakdowns) would be of greater interest 
to the majority of users. While the metropolitan area is a meaningful 
market in aggregating some banking data, this is not so true of trust 
assets as they :end to flow to the large city banks from all areas of 
a State and indeed from other parts of the nation. Moreover, trust 
assets of the large State-wide branching organizations are typically 
held in large city offices, and these two factors tend to inflate 
totals of trust assets shown for large city tanks and deflate those 
tor banks in other areas. 
As a regular part of trust department examinations, each 
Agency evaluates) trust holdings of own bank stock. Thus, the agencies 
know that, although some banks individually bold substantial amounts 
own bank stock in their trust accounts, the total of all banks' 
holdings of such stock is relatively small. Since the purpose of 
this publication was to provide statistical information about the 
volume and distribution of major categories of trust assets and 

HOARD DF GOVERNORS O f THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Tbo Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
accounts, .it was decided not to show, separately, totals of own 
bank stock. Possible concentrations in other corporate stock are 
also evaluated in the trust examining process, 
The three agencies are currently considering whether 
additional joint surveys (and possible changes in their scope) should 
be made. In this connection, consideration will be given to possible 
restructuring of published data derived from such surveys, including 
identification of the Largest trust departments. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, JL-. 

• I
1
 • 
T E L E G R A M 
Item No. 3 
L E A S E P 
H I R E S E R V I C E 
10/27/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE. FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
U: 
October 27, 1969. 
GALUSHA - MINNEAPOLIS 
Board authorises your Bank to spend an amount not in excess of 
$33,626,000 for construction of new Head Office building as 
requested in your letter of October 15, 1969. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/27/69 
WASHINGTON', 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D O A R S S 
A R R I C I A L 
C C P R E S P D N D E N C I - * 
T Q 
7 H C 
G U A R D 
October 28, 1969 
M r . John F. Ilahn, 
3700 Bagley, Apt. 305, 
Los Angeles, California. 
90034 
Dear M r . Hahn: 
This is in reference to your letter of September 19. 1969, 
to Charles Molony, Assistant to the Board, requesting Board consid-
eration of your appeal for access to certain records. Your letter 
followed an earlier exchange of correspondence between you and 
M r . Molony, and was prompted by M r . Molony's indication that certain 
records are no': available for public inspection. 
Three items in your request (question 5, involving staff 
memoranda, etc., in connection with meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee; question 6, insofar as it relates to FOMC minutes; and 
question 9, which relates to securities transactions effectuating FOMC 
policy) involve records of the Federal Open Market Committee, rather 
than the Board. 
Your appeal with respect to these materials will be 
reviewed by the Committee, pursuant to its Rules (12 CFR 271.6), and 
you will be advised of the Committee's determination with respect 
thereto. The Board has reviewed the remaining items in your appeal, 
pursuant to the provisions of its Rules Regarding Availability of 
Information (11 CFR 261.6(d)). 
The first request in your appeal is for a list of all 
statistics that: are considered confidential because they have been 
collected on a confidential basis. You state that you have no present 
interest in the content of the statistics, but that you desire to knew 
what information is collected and why it is collected in confidence. 
This item in ycur appeal apparently stems from a misunderstanding with 
respect to M r . Molony's response to your request. As stated on page 2 
of M r . Molony's letter of September 12, 1969. "an all-inclusive list 
consisting simply of categories of data regularly collected . . . could 
be assembled and provided for inspection." 
The reasons why certain 
information is collected and maintained in confidence can, of course, 
best be stated with reference to the particular information in question. 
In general, however, the reason for holding .some of such information 
in confidence is that the information probably could not otherwise be 

M r . John F. llahn 
-2-
obtained by the Board. Much of the information compiled by the 
Board in order to assist it in the performance of its responsibilities 
is provided by banks and other businesses, at Board request, without 
any legal compulsion. This information is of a type which such busi-
nesses would not make public for competitive reasons, and would be 
reluctant to provide to the Board if assurar-ce could not be given of 
its confidential treatment. The Board's ability to provide such 
assurance was preserved by Congress when it enacted the Public Infor-
mation Act. The House report on the Act stated, with respect to the 
exemption from disclosure of such information: 
"This exemption would assure the confidentiality of 
information obtained by the Government through question-
naires. . . . (W)here the Government has obligated itself 
in good faith not to disclose document,-J or information 
which it receives, it should be able to honor such 
obligations." 
(H.R. Rep. No. 1497, 89th Cong., 2d Sess. 10.) 
The second question raised by your appeal is with respect to 
denial of public access to minutes of Board meetings. The Board has 
sustained M r . Molony's ruling with respect to these materials. 
The 
Board has adopted procedures to inform the public of its actions as 
promptly and cs fully as is possible without compromising the effec-
tiveness of such actions. To go beyond this and make public minutes 
which would reveal the discussions and deliberations leading to those 
actions would unnecessarily inhibit the free discussion which is a 
prerequisite cf a reasoned group judgment. In denying access to that 
information, M r . Molony's letter referred to the exemption in 
section 552(b)(5) of Title 5, United States Code. The House report 
explains one of the reasons for that exemption, which reason is be-
lieved applicable here, as follows: 
"Agency witnesses argued that a full and frank exchange 
of opinions would be impossible if all internal communications 
were made public. They contended, and with merit, that ad-
vice. from staff assistants and the exchange of ideas among 
agency personnel would not be completely frank if they were 
forced to 'operate in a fishbowl'." 
(P.R. Rep. 1497, p. 10.) 
With regard to your appeal from denial of access to a list 
of users of the discount window, M r . Molony's position has been sus-
tained by the Board. Under the Board's Regilation A, such credit is 
generally extended in order to enable the borrowing bank to adjust 
its asset position when required by developments such as a sudden 
withdrawal of deposits or seasonal requirements for credit beyond 
those which can reasonably be met by use of the bank's own resources. 
The discount window is not a regular source of funds for member banks 
in their ongoing business dealings; its use is limited to periods of 

Mr. John F. llahn 
-3-
adjustment, when it can provide stability to the borrowing bank. Public 
identification of banks which require such temporary assistance would be 
counter-productive to the purpose of providing stability. Even with 
respect to lists which are not current, disclosure would not be in the 
public interest because the knowledge that such borrowings might, be made 
public in the future could cause a bank to avoid use of the discount 
window at times when the interests of its depositors dictate such use. 
The Board has also sustained Mr. Molony's refusal to permit 
access to detailed information with respect to loans made for defense 
production purposes under Regulation V. These loans are neither made 
nor guaranteed by the Board or the Federal Reserve Banks. Rather, the 
loans are made by private financial institutions and guaranteed by 
agencies other than the Board, with the Board's role limited to acting 
as agent for tise guaranteeing agency, as set forth in Regulation V 
(32A CFR Ch. XV). Under these circumstances, it is the Board's position 
that the question of what, if any, public disclosure should be made of 
information in the possession of government agencies regarding the 
borrower, lender, amount, and terms of individual loans made under the 
program should, in each case, be determined by the agency principally 
involved. Aggregate data regarding such loans are published in the 
Board's Annual Report. 
(See page 357 of the 1968 Annual Report.) 
Your final request is for review of the denial of access to 
"the complete internal audit" of the Board and of the Federal Reserve 
Banks. As indicated in Mr. Molony's letter, the internal audits of 
the Federal Reserve Banks take the form of examination reports, and 
consist, in part, of an evaluation by the examining force of the 
operations of *he subject Reserve Bank. As with any such evaluation, 
the worth of these portions of such reports is proportionate to the 
candor exercised in their preparation. These sections of the reports 
are considered to be within the "intra-agency memoranda" exemption of th 
Public Information Act. The reports a''so contain financial information 
relating to the Reserve Banks and as noted in Mr. Molony's letter, such 
information is published in condensed form in the Board's Annual Report. 
If you would prefer to examine such information in the form in which it 
is contained in the audit reports, that portion of such reports could 
be made available, as could similar information contained in the Board's 
audit. However, £cr the reasons stated herein and in Mr. Molony's 
letter, it is the Board's view that the portion of such reports reflec-
ting the views of the examining force should not be made available for 
public inspection. Also, appropriate deletions would be made in any 
material made available, where necessary to protect the privacy of 
individual, member banks or other corporations or persons. 

Mr. John F. llahn 
-4-
In addition to the issues which you raised for resolution by 
the Board, your letter raised ccrtain questions regarding the affirma-
tion filed by each Class C director that he does not own any bank stock 
(a qualification imposed on such directors by section 4 of the Federal 
Reserve Act). The affirmation is required by the Board as part of a 
Class C director's Oath of Office, as a means of assuring that such 
directors are aware of the statutory requirement, and in order to assure 
the Board that such qualification is met in each case. In response to 
another question, the Board requires that such an affirmation be filed 
by each Class C director at the time of his appointment, and every 
person presently occupying such a position has complied with that 
Board requirement. A copy of the form of affirmation is enclosed, 
pursuant to your request. 
In general, it is the Board's view that Mr. Molony's response 
not only met, but in several instances exceeded legal requirements of 
records disclosure, in that it offered to compile lists and other 
information not available in the Board's records in the form which you 
requested. The Board approved the cooperativeness reflected by the 
response, but noted the implication in your letters that you contemplate 
a prolonged inquiry, of which the present extensive requests are only 
an initial step. The Board instructed its staff to continue to cooperate 
in responding to any reasonable request which you might make, but to 
advise It if at any time it appeared that the amount of time which it 
is required to devote to requests of any person or group of persons 
threatened serious interference with the staff's other responsibilities. 
In view of the extensive search time involved in complying with some 
of the requests which you have made, the Board has also instructed its 
staff that, in cases where a substantial amount of time is involved in 
complying with a particular request, it furnish you with an estimate 
of the fees chargeable to you, and receive your acknowledgment of 
liability therefor, before undertaking such search. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Rober": P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 

o /vo* t 
Item No. 5 
10/27/69 
TITLE 32A—NATIONAL DEFENSE, APPENDIX 
CHAPTER XV—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REG, V — L O A N GUARANTEES FOR DEFENSE PRODUCTION 
Maximum Rate of Interest 
1. Effective October 27, 1969, sec. 7(a) of Regulation V 
is amended to read as follows: 
Sec, 7, 
Supplement. 
(a) Maximum rate of interest. - The maximum interest rate 
charged a borrower by a financing institution with respect to a 
guaranteed loan shall not exceed 7-1/2 per cent per annum, except 
th 
at: the agency guaranteeing a particular loan may frcm time to time 
prescribe a higher rate if it determines the loan to be necessary in 
financing an essential defense production contract. 
tV 
•A" 
Vr 
* 
ie 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to permit the 
governmental agercy guaranteeing a loan under the Defense Production 
Act 
of 1950r tin amended, to prescribe from titre to time a higher 
interest rate thsn otherwise payable on such loan, if the agency 
determines that such higher rate is necessary in obtaining V-loan 
financing of an essential defense production contract. 
b. The requirements of section 553(b) of title 5, United 
States Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and 
deferred effective date were not followed in connection with this 
a m
endment. Functions exercised under the Defense Production Act 

o o o r 
-2-
arc exempt from such requirements (50 App. U.S.C, 2i59}« 
It was 
considered impracticable under the circumstances to consult with 
industry representatives. 
(50 App. U.S.C. 2091(c), 2153; E.O, 10480, sections 302(c)(2), 602(b)(1).) 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 27, 1969, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

.^bvc-oV^-. 
m
m
: 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
10/27/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S F ' D 
T O 
T H E 
t ' O A R O 
October 28, 1969. 
The Honorable J. M. Malloy, 
Deputy Assistant Secretary of 
Defense (Procurement), 
Department of Defense, 
Washington, D. C. 
20301 
Dear Mr. Ma H o y : 
This refers to the Board's letter of August 8, 1969, with 
respect to its consideration of a proposal that the maximum rate of 
interest on the so-called "V-loans" guaranteed by certain agencies 
of the Government under the Defense Production Act of 1950 be in-
creased from the present 7-1/2 per cent. 
In the light of a showing that a higher V-loan interest 
rate is required with respect to a specific case presented to the 
Board and the likelihood of other specific eases with similar 
circumstances, the Board has now decided that a V-loan guaranteeing 
agency may prescribe from time to time a higher rate than 7-1/2 per 
cent if the agency determines that such higher rate is necessary in 
obtaining V-loan financing of an essential defense production 
contract. 
Therefore, after consultation with the guaranteeing 
agencies, the Board has amended the Supplement to its Regulation V 
under the caption of "Maximum rate of interest" (section 7(a)) as 
follows, effective October 27, 1969. 
"The maximum interest rate charged a borrower by a financing 
institution with respect to a guaranteed loan shall not 
exceed 7-1/2 per cent per annum, except that the agency 
guaranteeing a particular loan may from time to time pre-
scribe a higher rate if it determines the loan to be neces-
sary in financing an essential defense production contract." 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

olilow'-^ 
OOOi-* 
O . q o / 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
10/27/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B C A R D 
October 28, 1969. 
The Honorable Robert D. Benson, 
Deputy Assistant Secretary, 
Department of the Air Force, 
Washington, D. C. 
20330 
Dear Mr. Benson: 
This refers to your letter of October 8, 1.9 69, in 
further support of a request from the Continental Illinois 
National Bank and Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois, that the 
Board prescribe, in the case of a specific V-loan, a rate of 
interest higher than the maximum of 7-1/2 per cent prescribed 
in the most recent amendment to its Regulation V. 
In the light of the facts presented in your letter and 
the likelihood of other specific cases with similar circumstances, 
the Board has now decided that a V-loan guaranteeing agency may 
prescribe from time to time a higher rate than 7-1/2 per cent if 
the agency determines that such higher rate is necessary in 
obtaining V-loan financing of an essential defense production 
contract. 
Therefore, after consultation with the guaranteeing 
agencies, the Board has amended the Supplement to its Regulation 
V under the caption of "Maximum rate of interest" as follows, 
effective uctober 27, 1969: 
"The maximum interest rate charged a borrower by a 
financing institution with respect to a guaranteed loan 
shall not exceed 7-1./2 per cent per annuir, except that 
the agency guaranteeing a particular loan may from time 
to time prescribe a higher rate if it determines the 
loan to be necessary in financing an essential defense 
production contract." 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

']> • 
-
cpHiP^-. 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , U. C . 
2 0 S S I 
Item No. 
10/27/69 
O F F I C E : O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 28, 1969 
The Honorable Robert N. C. Nix, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Postal Operations, 
Committee on Post Office and Civil Service, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 205115 
Dear Mr. Chair man: 
TIiis is in reply to your request oi: October 7, 1969, 
for a report from the Board on the bill, H.R. 13244, which 
would amend the postal laws ". . . to restrict the mailing of 
unsolicited credit cards." 
The bill, in brief, would amend 39 U.S.C. '001 to make, 
any unsolicited credit card "nonmailable matter" unless (1) it 
is sent by the Issuer by registered mail restricted to delivery 
to the addressee only, (2) the envelope is marked "unsolicited 
credit cnrd--acdressee may refuse", and (3) the issuer guarantees 
payment of return postage. The bill would not apply to a replace-
ment for a credit card, previously used by the addressee, or to a 
mailing other than by a card issuer. Credit cards mailed in 
response to requests also would be exempt frcm the bill. Mailings 
contrary to the bill would be subject to seizure by the postal 
authorities. Violations also would be punishable by fine of net 
more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not mor( than two years, or 
bo th. 
The Board would recommend favorable consideration of 
II.R. 1.3244 if it were to be amended by (1) deleting the require-
ment that unsolicited credit cards be sent by registered mail, 
and (2) substituting for the requirement for marked envelopes, 
a required procedure that, as described belo\;, would convey 
the same notice to addressees, while appropriately protecting 
cards sent by issuers and returned to them through nonregistered 
ma i 1. 

The Honorable Robert N . C. Nix 
The Board la more familiar, of course, with the cmrl-' 
cards issued by banks than with the cards of other issuers 
f o r " Z V r T r 
^ 
T 
^
 
e f f e c t t
- 
o b u i n ^ ^ r 
solicited n
t 
T 
P l a a 
t 0 m a i l 
a l a r « e 
n u m b e r 
— 
™n 
V 
' 
procedure resolves simultaneously the 
Ob em of having enough merchants signed to participate in the 
bank's plan to make the card useful Co customers, and of hav-n" 
involved s o l 
n
 
o f 
c r e d i t
 = " d s by banks has 
i volved some problems, there have been no developments to date 
that, in the jioard's judgment, would warrant preventing this 
method of card distribution. 
If this method of card ifstance 
TeliVZT'
 
b a n
lV
S W 0 U l d 
b e 
S e r i 0 U S l y
 - » P « e d in u Z n t t , 
ciedit caid plans, thus giving those banks already in the field 
a protected position that would discourage competition, 
m a i l t ™. ,f°
R
" V
3
?
4 4
' 'f
 C O U r s e
>
 
w o u l d
 "ot prohibit unsolicited 
f i l i n g s of c edit cards. However, the requirement of the bill 
U a t unsolicited cares be sent by registered mail, 1„ addition' 
to being costly t o issuers, would subject many intended card-
e l d e r s to a substantial burden. Registered mail (even if not 
restricted to delivery to the addressee only, as would be 
required oy the bill) must be accepted by a responsible person 
at the address indicated. 
This would mean In many cases that 
,
 
l n t e n d
? f cardholder, with no idea of it, contents, would 
have to collect the letter from his postoffice. Not Infrequent* 
this would involve expense and other inconvenience,. 
The Board, therefore, believes that the requiremen-" 
for registered mail in 35 U.S.C. 4001(c)(4)(1), as set out in 
the 
, n 
should be eliminated. In k e y i n g with this suggestion 
, 
,
1 , o a r d w c u l d
 recommend further that section 4001 (c) C4) f i » 
be changed so that, in lieu of requiring envelopes marked 
unsolicited credit card--addressee may refuse", issuers would 
have to use unmarked envelopes enclosing (1) an unmarked return 
envelope containing the card, and (2) a statement notifving the 
addressee of the contents of the return envelope and that the 
card may be refused merely by depositing the unooened return 
envelope in the nearest post office or letter box. Th° use of 
marked envelopes would seem clearJy to involve the risk of 
increased security problems that would outweigh the anticipated 
benefits either to card issuers or the addressees. 
Your Subcommittee may also wish to consider sub-
stituting for the language "or the obtaining of loans" in 
d'J U.S.C. 4001(b) as contained ir, the bill, the language "or 

The Honorable Robert N. C. Nix 
-3-
the obtaining of cash advances." 
It is believed that the 
suggested change may be more appropriately descriptive, of the 
cash advance feature of certain bank credit cards and of bank 
check-credit plans that utilize cards. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm, McC. Martin, Jr. 

-I 
'.jW-V; rrrrrW 
BOARD OF" GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 0 G S I 
Item No. 9 
10/27/69 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 28, 1969 
The Honorable Emanuel Celler, Chairman, 
Committee on the Judiciary, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your request of September 12, 1969, 
for the views of the Board on five bills, relating to credit 
cards; H.R. 6468, II.R. 858, H.R. 1232, II.R. 6487, and H.R. 9778. 
H.P.. 6488 and H.R. 858. - The bill, H.R. 6488. would 
add a new section 1735 to 18 U.S.C. that would restrict the 
mailing of unsolicited credit cards 0 
Briefly, the bill would 
make any unsolicited credit card "nonmailable matter" unless 
(1) it: i.s sent by the issuer by registered mail restricted t:o 
delivery to the addressee only, (2) the envelope is marked "un-
solicited credit card — addressee may refuse", and (3) the issuer 
guarantees payment of return postage. The bill would not apply 
to a replacement for a credit card previously used by the 
addressee, or t:o a mailing other than by a card issuer. Cradit 
cards mailed ir.. response to requests also would be exempt from 
the bill. Mailings contrary to the bill wou..d be subject to 
seizure by the oostal authorities. Violations also would be 
punishable by fine of not more than $1 ,000 or imprisonment for 
hot more than two years, or both. 
The Eoard would recommend favorable consideration of 
H.R. 6488 if it were amended by (1) deleting the requirement 
that unsolicited credit cards be sent by registered mail, and 
(2) substituting for the requirement for marked envelopes, a 
required procedure that, as described below, would convey the same 
notice to addressees, while appropriately protecting cards sent 
by issuers and returned to them through nonregistered mail. 
The Eoard is more familiar, of course, with the credit 
cards issued by banks than with the cards of other issuers. 
Banks have found that tiie most effective way no obtain customers 

'>' > } o 
O/Ct
L
±t
i
w 
The Honorable- Emanuel Celler 
-2-
for a new credit card plan is to mail a large number of unsolicited 
cards. This procedure resolves simultaneously the problem of 
having enougl merchants signed to participate in the bank's plan 
to make the card useful to customers, and of having enough card-
holders to make the plan attractive to merchants. Although the 
unsolicited mailing of credit cards by bancs has involved some 
problems, there have been no developments to date that, in the 
Board
!
s judgment, would warrant preventing this method of card 
distribution. If this method of card issuance were prevented, 
banks would be seriously hampered in launching credit card plans, 
thus giving those banks already in the field a protected position 
that would discourage competition. 
II.R. 6488, of course, would not prohibit unsolicited 
mailings of credit cards. However, the requirement of the bill 
that unsolicited cards be sent by registered mail, in addition to 
being costly to issuers, would subject man} intended cardholders 
to a substantial burden. Registered mail (.even if not restricted 
tc delivery to the addressee only, as would be required by the 
bill) must be accepted by a responsible person at the address 
indicated. This would mean in many cases that the intended 
cardholder, with no idea of its contents, would have to collect 
the letter from his post office. Not infrequently this would 
involve expense and other inconvenience. 
The Board, therefore, believes that the requirement for 
registered ma:.l in the new section 1735(b) (4) (i) , as set out in 
the bill, should be eliminated. In keeping with this suggestion, 
the Board would recommend further that section 1735(b)(4)(ii) be 
changed so the t, in lieu of requiring envelopes marked "unsolicited 
credit card--addressee may refuse", issuers would have to use 
unmarked envelopes enclosing (1) an unmarked return envelope 
containing the card, and (2) a statement notifying the addressee of 
the contents of the return envelope and that the card may be refused 
merely by depcsiting the unopened return envelope in the nearest 
post office ot letter box. The use of marked envelopes would 
seem clearly to involve the risk of increased security problems 
that would outweigh the anticipated benefits either co card issuers 
or the addressees. 
Your Committee may also wish to consider substituting 
for the language "or the obtaining of loans" in the new section 
1735(a) as contained in the bill, the language "or the obtaining 

kj/C i»J 
The Honorable Emanuel Celler 
-3-
of cash advances.
11
 
it is believed that the suggested change may 
be more, appropriately descriptive of the cash advance feature of 
certain bank credit cards and of bank check-credit plans that 
utilise cards, 
H.R. 853 differs from II.R. 6^88 by making credit cards 
"nonmailable matter
11
 unless sent by the issuer in response to 
a request and by registered mail. Since H.R. 858 would, therefore, 
effectively prohibit the unsolicited mailings of credit cards, 
the Board, for reasons discussed above, would recommend against 
ena c tmen t o f the b ill, 
]LR. 1232, H.R. 6487, and H.R. 9778. - Each of these 
bills would add to the National Stolen Property Act (18 U.S.C.. 
2314) a provision making it. a crime for anyone, with unlawful or 
fraudulent intent, to transport or use in interstate or foreign 
commerce any counterfeit, fictitious, altered, lost, stolen, 
wrongfully appropriated, unauthorized, revoked, or canceled 
credit card. 
Unlike H.R. 1232, H.R. 6487 and H.R. 9778 also would 
amend the Act (18 U.S.C. 2315) to make it a crime, briefly, to 
receive, conccal, or dispose of a n y credit card, or any fictitious 
or counterfeit, card, knowing it to be stolen, or to be fictitious 
or counterfeit., as the case may be. H.R. 97/3 would add to 
these proscribed activities the fraudulent use of any lost, 
stolen, fictitious or counterfeit card. The credit card offenses 
covered by the bills would be subject to a rine of up to $10,000 
or imprisonmert for not more than 10 years, or both. 
The Board, of course, is not charged with enforcement 
of the criminal laws and it has no special expertise with 
respect to such laws or their enforcement. It is the Board's 
understanding, however, that the National Stolen Property Act, in 
its present form, lias proved to be an unsatisfactory remedy 
relative to credit cards. If your Committee should conclude from 
the evidence that this is a serious loophole in the Federal criminal 
law, the Board would recommend favorable consideration by your 
Ccmmittee of appropriate amendments. 
With respect to the three bills ir question and. particu-
larly their definitions of "credit card", the Board suggests that 
your Committee may wish to make it clear tb.£ t the term would 
include bank check-credit plans utilizing cards and that the use 
of a credit card for cash advances would be covered, as well. 

The Honorable Emanuel Ceiler 
-4-
Your Committee also may wish to consider limiting the 
application of the prohibitions against the fraudulent or other 
proscribed u^c. of credit cards to transactions in excess of a 
stated dollar amount. This would seem appropriate in view of 
enforcement and related considerations. Some precedent for 
this, of course, already exists in the National Stolen Property 
Act. 
Finally, consideration might be given also to eliminatin 
from any measure in this connection offenses involving a revoked 
or canceled credit card by the person to whom the card was issued. 
It would not seem unreasonable to urge that the Federal criminal 
law not be used, in effect, as machinery to enforce contractual 
rights and duties as between credit card issuers and their custome 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Kartin, Jr. 

r
)*> 1 tr 
BOARD D F G D V E R N • F 5 
Item No. 10 
10/27/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
2055T 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 31, 1969 
M r . Martin W . Bergin, Secretary, 
Retirement System of the 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
The Board of Governors has approved increasing the bene-
fits under the Board Plan of the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks in order that they conform with increased retirement 
benefits provided in Public Law 91-93, signed by the President 
October 20, IS69. This law (previously forwarded to you) provides 
the following changes: 
A . Effective October 20, 1969: 
1. Changes to "High-3" Average Salary 
The average salary used in computing annuities is changed 
from "high-5" to high-3," unless specifically stipulated other-
wise. The "high-3" average pay is the largest annual rate 
resultinf: from averaging, over any period of three consecutive 
vears of creditable service, an employee's rates of basic pay 
in effect during that period, with each rate weighted by the 
time it vas in effect. 
2. Credits for Unused Sick Leave 
The service of an employee who (1) retires on immediate 
annuity or (2) dies leaving a survivor or survivors entitled 
to an annuity will be increased by the days of unused sick 
leave to his" credit under a formal leave system. The days of 
unused sick leave thus added are used only in counting the 
number of years and months of service for annuity computation 
purposes; they cannot be added in computing the employee's 
high-3 average salary or for the purpose of meeting the mini-
mum length of service required for retirement eligibility. 

BTJARO OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
xkj 
Martin W . Eergin 
- 2 -
3. Changes in Survivor Annuity Benefits 
a. Eligibility Requirements: 
The former minimum require-
ment of at least 5 years of creditable civilian service 
is changed to 18 months in dcath-in-service cases only. 
To qualify his widow (or widower) or children, or both, 
for a survivor annuity an employee now must have: 
(1) Completed at least !;8 months' civilian ser-
vice, and 
(2) Died while employed in a position subject 
to the retirement system. 
b. Amount of Survivor Annuity: 
(1) To Widows (and Dependent Widowers) of 
Deceased Employees; A widow (or widower) 
of a deceased employee will be entitled 
to a guaranteed minimum yearly annuity 
which is 55% of the lesser of--
(a.) 40% of the deceased employee's 
high-3 average salary 
or 
(b.) the regular annuity obtained after 
increasing tie deceased employee's 
service by the period of time between 
the date of his death and the date he 
would have attained age 60. 
(2) To Children; When a wife or husband survives 
the deceased employee, the yearly annuity 
payable to each child will be the least of 
the following amounts: 
(a.) 60% (increased from 40%) of the em-
ployee's high-3 average salary 
divided by the number of children 
or 
(b.) $900. (increased from $600.) 
or 
(c.) $2,700. (incieased from $1,800.) 
divided by the number of children. 

BOARD DF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Mr. Martin W . Bergin 
-3-
When the employee is not survived by a wife or 
husband, the corresponding figures are: a. 75% 
(increased from 50°,), b. $1,080. (increased from 
$720.), and c. $3,240. (increased from $2,160.) 
divided by the number of children. 
The increases to children are granted not only to 
those who qualify for survivor annuities on or 
after the enactment date of the Civil Service 
Retirement Amendments of 1969, but also to those 
children who are currently receiving survivor 
annuities, except that where annuities are based 
on the employee's high-5 average salary no change 
will be made in that average. The increased bene-
fits, however, are payable from November 1, 1969, 
and a child of an employee who died with between 
18 months and 5 years of service is not entitled 
to survivor annuity if death occurred before that 
date. 
Note: The amounts shown do not include cost-of-living 
increases. A 5% cost-of-living increase is 
effective November 1, 1969 so the new amounts 
are increased as follows: 
$900. to $945., 
$2,700. to $2,835., $1,080. to $1,134., and 
$3,240. to $3,402. 
(3) Z 2 Widows (or Widowars) of Certain Disability 
Annuitants: 
Heretofore, an employee who retired for dis-
ability and whose annuity was computed under 
the "guaranteed minimum" disability annuity 
provision, could not use any part of the 
guaranteed minimum as the base for his widow's 
(or widower's) annuity, normally 557o of the 
retiree's earned annuity. The widow of a 
disability annuitant; retired on or after the 
enactment date of the Civil Service Retire-
ment Amendments of 1969, will receive 55% of 
the retiree's full annuity, including that 
portion added under the guaranteed minimum 
provision, unless at retirement he has specified 
that a lesser amount than his full annuity be 
used as the base for his widow's benefit. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS CF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
*V? 
Q 
Mr. Martin W. Bergin 
-4-
c. Remarriage of Survivor Annuitants: Prior to July 18. 1966, 
the survivor annuity of a widow (or widower) terminated 
upon remarriage. Effective July 18, 1966. an amendment 
to the retirement law permitted continuance of the widow's 
annuity if her remarriage occurred after she had attained 
age 60; also, a widow's annuity which had been terminated 
before age 60 could be reinstated upon dissolution of the 
remarriage. However, both the continuance and reinstate-
ment provisions applied only to widows of employees who 
were separated for death or retirement on or after July 18, 
1966. 
Even if an employee's death or retirement occurred before 
July 18, 1966, Public Law 91-93 will permit continuance 
of survivor annuity to any widow (or widower) if (1) she 
remarries on or after attainiiig age 60 and (2) the 
remarriage occurred on or after July 18, 1966. 
Similarly, 
upon dissolution of the remarriage, the 1969 amendments 
permit reinstatement of any widow's (or widower
1
s) annuity 
which terminated after July 18, 1966 because of remarriage 
before age 60. Although this provision of the 1969 amend-
ments operates retroactively for remarriages occurring on 
or after July 18, 1966, annuity to a widow (or widower) 
affected by it will be resumed October 20, 1969. 
B
• 
Effective November 1, 1.969: 
Adds 1 per cent to each cost-of-living increase effective 
after October 1969. 
(Advice of this change was included in a 
previous letter from the Board relating to the additional cost-
of-living increase effective November 1, 1969.) 
G. Effective first day of the first pay period beginning after 
December 31, 1969 (January 11, 1970)"". 
1. Increases retirement deductions from all employees' salaries, 
and matching Board contributions to the Civil Service Retirement 
System, to 7 per cent (from the present 6-1/2 per cent) of the 
basic pay of each employee. 
Note: Board contributions to the Board of Gcvernors Plan will continue 
to be based upon a per cent of basic pay of each employee, as 
determined by the Retirement System Actuary. 

BClARD Q r GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE 5Y5TEM 
Mr. Martin W . Eergin 
-5-
As in the case of funding the cost of living increases 
discussed in a previous letter from the Board, it is the Board's 
intention to fund, to the extent possible, the increased benefits 
provided in Public Law 91-93 through the use of excess reserves 
which would be created by the proposed revision to 4 per cent in 
the Retirement System's rate of interest on January 1, 1970. 
However, should these excess reserves not be sufficient to fully 
fund the cost cf providing the increased benefits described in 
paragraph A abcve, please bill the Board for the difference between 
the amount the Actuary estimates is necessary to fund these benefits 
and the amount of excess reserves created by the revision of the 
interest rate to 4 per cent. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert ?. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
