FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
August 27, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 
S 
" - = £ 
• 
M\ 
PM 

2 4 3 9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 27, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Williams, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

2410 
8/27/70 
-2-
Mr. Anderson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mr. Wiles, Economist, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on August 24 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on August 20, 1970, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
Long Island Trust Company. On January 30, 1970, the Board 
issued an order denying by unanimous vote (Governor Sherrill absent and 
not voting) the application of Long Island Trust Company, Garden City, 
New York, to merge Bank of Westbury Trust Company, Westbury, New York, 
on the grounds that the proposed merger would have an adverse effect on 
competition without offsetting benefits under the convenience and needs 
factor. Subsequently the applicant requested the Board to reconsider 
the application on the basis that the original application had not in-
cluded all banking offices within a five-mile radius of Westbury, which 
had been the market area emphasized in the Board's statement covering 

2441 
8/27/70 
-3-
denial of the application. The revised data showed that there were 67 
rather than 40 offices in the area and the resulting institution would 
rank second (rather than first). 
On May 22, 1970, the Board voted unanimously to reconsider the 
application. At that time the Board asked the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York to conduct a survey of the banking affiliations of businesses 
and households in the central Nassau County area. The purpose of the 
survey was to provide data to aid in the determination of the geographic 
market within which the application should be considered. The Board's 
denial had been based on the premise that the central Nassau County 
area was the most relevant geographic market; that area was interpreted 
to encompass a five-mile radius of the Westbury Bank head office. The 
survey results, however, indicated that banks outside the central Nassau 
County area had a substantial impact on competition within that area and 
that they provided a convenient alternative source of banking services for 
customers. For the reasons described in the survey, it was concluded 
that metropolitan New York was an appropriate market to use when con-
sidering the competitive consequences of the proposal. 
In memoranda dated August 12, 1970, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section analyzed the application, 
noting especially the new information on deposit concentration that had 
been presented and the results of the New York Reserve Bank study. The 

** I 'TL!£ 
8/27/70 
-4-
Division of Supervision and Regulation now viewed the competitive effects 
of the proposed merger as only slightly adverse and reaffirmed its pre-
vious recommendation for approval, as did the Banking Markets Section 
and the Reserve Bank. 
Following comments by Mr. Egertson and Mr. Wiles, Chairman Burns 
asked Mr. O'Connell to comment on the legal aspects involved in a recon-
sideration such as this. 
Mr. O'Connell explained that in this instance the applicant had 
submitted a request for reconsideration on the basis of new and relevant 
information on deposit concentration that in its judgment could cause a 
change in the original decision. Mr. O'Connell noted that the decision 
for denial had been unanimous with six members of the Board present. 
The Justice Department had recommended against approval of the 
original application and upon review of the application for reconsidera-
tion had reaffirmed its earlier position that the proposed merger might 
have a serious adverse effect on competition. On the other hand, the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller of the Currency 
had confirmed their conclusion that the proposal would not be anticompeti-
tive . 
In the event that the Board should decide to approve the applica-
tion, Mr. O'Connell suggested that it was quite possible that suit would 
be brought by the Justice Department. Accordingly, he felt that the Board 
should have significant new evidence if it reversed its earlier decision. 
He believed that the New York Bank survey should be read in the light of 

8/27/70 
-5-
the descriptions of product and geographic markets set forth in the case 
of United States versus Philipsburg National Bank. 
Governor Mitchell then indicated that he thought the Board had 
a basis for reversing its earlier decision. In his judgment any decision 
to approve the application should be based on new evidence resulting 
from the survey. In the light of the survey findings and the decision 
in the Philipsburg case, he thought that it was appropriate to consider 
metropolitan New York as the relevant market area. As the survey had 
suggested, many persons found it more convenient to bank near their 
work than in their home communities. Accordingly, Governor Mitchell 
indicated that he would vote for approval. 
Mr. O'Connell stated that he thought the survey report, as well 
as the questionnaire used in connection with it, should be made a part of 
the record and there was general agreement on this point. 
Governor Daane indicated that he shared the view expressed by 
Governor Mitchell and he also would favor approval. 
Governor Maisel likewise stated that he would approve the applica-
tion. As had been noted, the survey conclusions regarding the relevant 
market area were in line with the court decision in the Philipsburg case. 
Also, new evidence had been presented to show that, within the five-mile 
radius of Westbury, there were more banking alternatives than had been 
noted in the original application and that the resulting bank would hold 
21 per cent of area deposits rather than 30.6 per cent. If consummated, 

£ 
W
l 
8/27/70 
-6-
the proposed merger would remove home office protection from the village 
of Westbury and thus open that community to de novo branching. In view 
of the new information presented, the effect of the proposal would become 
only slightly adverse. 
Governor Sherrill stated that he also favored approval of the 
application for the reasons stated by Governor Maisel. He considered 
it important to remove home office protection from the village of Westbury. 
Chairman Burns expressed himself in favor of approving the appli-
cation on the grounds outlined in the memorandum of the Banking Markets 
Section. 
The application was then approved unanimously, and it was under-
stood that an order and statement reflecting this decision would be 
drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Bordentown Banking Company. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated August 24, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Borden-
town Banking Company, Bordentown Township, New Jersey, to merge The 
First National Bank in New Egypt, New Egypt, New Jersey. 
(The title of 
the resulting bank would be The Bank of Mid-Jersey.) The recommenda-
tions were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 

^451 
8/27/70 
-7-
First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated August 13, 1970, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an application 
of First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation, Little Rock, Arkansas, (which 
presently owned 99 per cent of the voting shares of Worthen Bank and 
Trust Company, Little Rock), to acquire shares of Arkansas First National 
Bank of Hot Springs, Hot Springs, Arkansas, and thereby become the first 
registered bank holding company in Arkansas. The staff and Reserve Bank 
recommendations were favorable, and among other considerations took into 
account testimony at an oral presentation held in Little Rock on June 26, 
1970, over which Governor Mitchell presided. 
After discussion, the application was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that an order and statement would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration. 
Citizens Bancshares of Florida. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated August 21, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Citizens 
Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Hollywood, Florida, to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of Citizens National Bank of 
West Hollywood, Citizens National Bank of Hollywood, Citizens National 
Bank of Miami, Dade County, and Citizens National Bank of Davie, all of 
Florida. The recommendations were favorable. 

2446 
8/27/70 
-8-
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
First National Bank of Miami. In a memorandum dated August 18, 
1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation presented the applica-
tion of The First National Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida, to establish 
a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. The recommendations were favorable. 
Chairman Burns inquired why this application had not been handled 
under delegated authority. Mr. Holland responded that a procedure was 
being developed for delegating action on proposals of this type but as 
yet there was no authority for doing so. He noted that the question was 
related to the study of United States banks operating abroad that was 
now being made by the staff. 
Chairman Burns expressed the hope that the results of this study 
would be forthcoming shortly and with that in mind he suggested that 
action on the present application be deferred. He noted that one member 
of the Board consistently voted against applications to establish branches 
in Nassau and another member abstained from voting. He felt that fur-
ther enlightenment was needed regarding the reasons for the establish-
ment of Nassau branches by American banks. 
Mr. R. Solomon responded that the staff study was progressing 
and banks were being interviewed to obtain the type of information that 
Chairman Burns had mentioned. Mr. Solomon went on to say that the basic 

2447 
8/27/70 
-9-
reasons for establishing Nassau branches were related to tax advantages 
and the fact that banks with such branches had access to the Euro-dollar 
market on the same basis as banks with European branches. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that it would be helpful to have 
specific information regarding the extent of the tax advantages to 
banks establishing branches in the Bahamas. 
Governor Sherrill pointed out that the question of establishing 
"shell" branches in Nassau was but one element of the broader staff 
study of the operations of American banks abroad. However, if the Board 
so desired, it would be possible to report at an early date on this 
segment of the study. 
Governor Maisel then noted that the application of First National 
Bank of Miami to establish a branch in Nassau was somewhat different from 
the applications on which the Board had acted previously. In this 
instance there was an indication that the branch would serve as an off-
shore depository for the bank's large number of Latin American customers. 
It was pointed out that after the Board had agreed to permit 
banks to establish "shell" facilities in Nassau, a letter was addressed 
to all member banks which made it clear that the Board's approval was 
subject to the understanding, among other things, that the banks were to 
conduct operations for the purpose of developing new international 
business and not as a means of shifting deposits to such branches from 

2448 
8/27/70 
-10-
offices in the United States or for obtaining deposits that would other-
wise be placed in the United States. 
In view of the questions that had been raised, Chairman Burns 
suggested that action be deferred until more information was available 
as to the meaning of the bank's intent to serve as an off-shore deposi-
tory for Latin American customers. Also, he considered it important to 
have more information about the whole Nassau branch matter. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that action 
on the present case would be deferred until the bank's intent was more 
clearly understood. 
Wells Fargo Bank International Corporation. Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to Wells Fargo Bank International Corporation, 
New York, New York, granting permission for the corporation to issue 
and to have outstanding promissory notes payable to the Export-Import 
Bank of the United States with maturities in excess of one year, up to 
$3,000,000. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
In connection with this application, Chairman Burns suggested 
the possibility of delegating authority for action in similar cases in 
which the Reserve Bank and the Board's staff recommended approval and the 
prooosal was within the pattern of previous decisions. Governor Sherrill 
indicated that consideration would be given to this suggestion. 
Deposits by corporate landlord. Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York regarding a question 

2449 
8/27/70 
-11-
whether a corporate landlord may deposit funds in a savings deposit in 
the light of section 217.1(e) of Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on 
Deposits. A copy of the letter, as modified to reflect a suggestion 
by Governor Maisel, is attached as Item No. 2. 
Report on S. 4056. With a memorandum dated August 25, 1970, 
the Division of Research and Statistics submitted a draft of reply to 
a request from the Office of Management and Budget for the Board's 
views on S. 4056, the Fiscal Stabilization bill, which would establish 
a seven-member Fiscal Stabilization Board. The objective of the bill 
was to make possible a more flexible fiscal policy. 
During discussion a number of suggestions were made for changes 
in the letter to indicate that while the Board favored a more flexible 
fiscal policy, it questioned whether the institutional procedures set 
up by the bill were the most efficient for attaining such a policy. 
The letter reflecting the suggested changes was approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Federal Reserve notes. In a memorandum dated August 19, 1970, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations discussed a proposal 
from Secretary of the Treasury Kennedy for printing $2 Federal Reserve 
notes as a means of reducing manufacturing costs, as well as space and 
personnel requirements. Attached to the memorandum was a draft letter 
stating that the Board would favor the issuance of a $2 Federal Reserve 

2450 
8/27/70 
-12-
note only if the objectives outlined by Secretary Kennedy could be 
achieved; however, it appeared that a massive program would be required 
to educate the public to accept the $2 bill as a normal circulating 
medium. 
During discussion a number of changes in the wording of the 
letter were suggested and agreed upon. Also, it was suggested that 
Mr. Ring, who was designated to discuss the proposal with the Treasury 
staff, not be too enthusiastic about the proposal. In that connection, 
Governor Mitchell suggested that Mr. Ring also have in mind the possibility 
of issuing a $2.50 bill in a different color than other Federal Reserve 
notes. 
The letter was then approved in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Regulation D. There had been distributed memoranda from the 
Legal Division dated July 21, 1970, and from Governor Robertson dated 
August 18, 1970, with reference to a proposed amendment to Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, that would exclude from the definition of 
"time deposits" in the regulation "any deposit representing funds which 
are regularly utilized, by action of the depositary bank itself pursuant 
to an express or implied agreement with the depositor, to cover checks 
drawn on the bank by the depositor." A footnote to the proposed amend-
ment would state that "funds deposited by the trust department of a bank 
in its own commercial department are not 'time deposits' if regularly 
utilized to cover checks drawn by the trust department." 

^ 4 5 1 
8/27/70 
-13-
On the basis of comments received following publication of the 
proposed amendment, the Legal Division recommended that the amendment be 
modified to apply only to savings deposits of the trust department which 
are regularly utilized to cover checks. The amendment, as proposed, 
would have applied to all time deposits that are so utilized, not just 
to savings deposits. 
In his memorandum, Governor Robertson, who could not be present 
for today's meeting, suggested that the Board go a step further than 
the Legal Division recommended. He would favor action to require a 
member bank to pay on time deposits from its trust department interest 
at the rate it is then offering to other customers on comparable deposits. 
Since such a measure would be more stringent than the pending proposal, 
Governor Robertson recommended that there be republished for comment a 
proposal to adopt the Legal Division's recommendation with the additional 
change that he was suggesting. His argument for requiring a member bank 
to pay interest on trust funds placed in a time deposit in a bank's 
commercial department was that the only reason for such a noninterest 
bearing deposit was to avoid demand deposit reserve requirements. In his 
judgment, also, the Board should not be in a position of condoning a 
breach of fiduciary duty. 
Mr. Sanders explained the view of the Legal Division and discus-
sion followed of the practice by which trust funds awaiting investment 
were sometimes commingled and placed temporarily in a noninterest bearing 
time deposit in a bank's commercial department. 

2 4 5 2 
8/27/70 
-14-
Governor Mitchell indicated that he did not have sufficient 
information regarding the practice referred to in the proposals to act 
on them at this time. 
Governor Sherrill stated that he favored the Legal Division's 
recommendation. By taking this action the principal problem involved 
would be cared for. To go further would in his judgment suggest a sus-
picion of some irregular handling of trust funds which had no bearing on 
this particular matter. 
Governor Daane also indicated that he was inclined to go along 
with the Legal Division's recommendation. 
Chairman Burns noted that each of the proposals before the Board 
would involve some change in Regulation D and he wondered if it might not 
be advisable for the staff to obtain more information as to the possible 
results of either course of action. He went on to say that the Board 
might find that it would make little difference which action were taken. 
Governor Daane commented that it would also be helpful to have an under-
standing of the views of the Interagency Coordinating Committee on 
Bank Regulation. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that action 
on the proposals for amending Regulation D would be deferred pending the 
development of additional information by the staff. 
Holding company subsidiary banks. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated August 17, 1970, from the Division of Supervision and 

^451 
8/27/70 
-15-
Regulation with reference to the Board's letter of June 1, 1970, to 
Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency 
recommending legislation that would require all subsidiary banks of a 
holding company to be members of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion. The Division recommended that no further action be taken by the 
Board at this time to broaden Federal deposit insurance coverage in 
view of the small number and size of noninsured banks and the little 
likelihood of further chartering of such banks. Members of the Board 
expressed general agreement with this recommendation, which called for 
no action. 
Federal Open Market Committee directives. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated August 25, 1970, from the Board's Editorial 
Committee with reference to a request from the Federal Open Market 
Committee to review staff papers on the Committee directives and to 
determine whether they should be published and, if so, when. The 
Editorial Committee recommended (1) that an article be published in the 
Federal Reserve Bulletin (probably the November 1970 issue) discussing 
in general terms the open market policy process as it had developed over 
the past year; (2) that at a later date the six papers (and a seventh 
paper if available in time) listed in an attachment to the memorandum 
be published in a separate pamphlet entitled "Open Market Policies and 
Operating Procedures - Staff Studies"; and (3) that 5,000 copies of the 

2454 
8/27/70 
-16-
pamphlet be printed, pricing and distribution to be in accordance with 
the procedure outlined in a memorandum to the Board dated July 22, 1965. 
After a brief discussion members of the Board expressed agreement 
with the recommendations of the Editorial Committee. 
It was understood 
that the descriptive article appearing in the Bulletin would also be 
included in the separate pamphlet. Mr. Holland indicated that the Open 
Market Committee would be advised of the Board's favorable action on the 
proposal. 
Request for access to records. Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to Mr. Pierce H. O'Donnell in response to his requests for 
access to the Board's records with respect to (1) V-loan guarantees 
under section 301 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended; 
(2) foreign banking operations of First National City Bank of New York; 
and (3) reports filed by the latter bank pursuant to the Voluntary Foreign 
Credit Restraint Program. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff attendance. 
Annex building. In a memorandum dated August 24, 1970, Governor 
Sherrill recommended that the Board authorize the necessary actions to 
award a contract before the end of 1970 for construction of the annex 
building. The reasons for this recommendation were outlined in the 
memorandum, a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
During discussion Governor Mitchell raised a question whether 
this was the most propitious time to extend invitations for bids. 

o i err-
8/27/70 
-17-
Governor Sherrill responded that it would be necessary to finalize plans 
before asking for bids and this would require time. 
Governor Daane expressed some reservations about possible public 
reaction to any announcement that the Board was moving ahead with build-
ing plans. This would represent a change in the Board's earlier position 
with respect to both Board and Reserve Bank building projects. In his 
view it would be appropriate for the full Board to review the matter 
before extending invitations to bid. 
Governor Sherrill commented that it was difficult to determine 
the best time for moving ahead with building plans. In any event the 
actual construction would require more than two years. Operating 
problems associated with crowded working conditions and the distance 
between the Board building and Watergate should be taken into considera-
tion. If the Board should decide to begin construction, it would, of 
course, be appropriate to inform the Reserve Banks that they also could 
begin construction on a selective basis provided that congested infla-
tionary conditions were not aggravated in local construction market 
areas. This would be consistent with the June 1970 revision of the 
guidelines established in September 1969 by the Bureau of the Budget. 
Chairman Burns commented that there would probably never be a 
really good time to proceed with building plans. The Board had already 
delayed building for a long period and he felt that plans should now 
move ahead as rapidly as possible. He would, however, be inclined to 

2456 
8/27/70 
-18-
postpone any building plan announcements until later in the year. 
On the basis of the views expressed, it was understood that the 
necessary steps would be taken to finalize plans prior to extending 
invitations to bid and that no announcement of building plans would be 
made until the matter had been considered by the full Board. 
Delegation of authority. In a memorandum dated August 26, 1970, 
Governor Sherrill recommended that the Chairman or his designee be 
authorized to approve changes to the budget adopted by the Board subject 
to certain limitations, which were outlined in a proposed Delegation of 
Board Authority for Budget Changes. 
Unanimous approval was given to the recommended delegation of 
authority with the understanding that several suggested changes would be 
made. A copy of the delegation in the form approved is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
Chairman Burns named Governor Sherrill as his designee for 
authorizing budget changes within the approved limitations. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2457 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/27/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 27, 1970. 
Wells F a r g o Bank International Corporation, 
40 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 24, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants approval for your Corporation 
to issue and have outstanding in accordance with Section 25(a) 
of the Federal R e s e r v e Act and Section 211.4 of Regulation K, 
promissory notes payable to the Export-Import Bank of the 
United States with maturities in excess of one year, up to 
a total of $3, 000, 000. 
V e r y truly yours 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . 
Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D • F' G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RE5ERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
8/27/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D ! 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 27, 1970 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
This refers to your letter of August 3, 1970, in which 
you advise that section 7-103 of the New York General Obligations 
Law, effective September 1, 1970 (1) requires a landlord of a 
multiple dwelling containing six or more units to deposit his 
tenants' security funds in an interest-bearing account, and 
(2) authorizes the landlord "to receive, as administration expenses, 
a sum equivalent to 1 per cent per annum upon the security money 
so deposited, which shall be in lieu of all other administrative 
and custodial expenses". 
You ask whether a corporate landlord may deposit funds 
in a savings deposit in the light of § 217.1(e) of Regulation Q. 
That section defines "savings deposits" as "funds deposited to the 
credit" of specified persons not including business corporations 
"or in which the entire beneficial interest is held by one or more" 
such persons. 
The Board is of the view that a member bank may accept a 
savings deposit from a corporation if eligible persons possess the 
"entire beneficial interest" in the principal of the deposit. This 
differentiation between principal and interest is consistent with 
the language of § 217.1(e), and with § 217.5(c)(2) of the Regulation 
(which generally prohibits a bank, pursuant: to an agreement, from 
making periodic transfers from the principal of a savings deposit 
to pay the depositor's obligations, but permits such transfers with 
respect to the interest accrued on such deposit). 
Interest earned on a deposit becomes part of the principal 
at the time it is credited to the account to which it relates. 
Accordingly, a bank may accept a savings deposit from a corporate 

O i r<l 
Mr. Fred V/. Piderit, Jr. 
-2-
landlord if (1) the entire beneficial interest in the principal 
is owned by eligible persons, and (2) the landlord's fee is paid -
such as by check or credit to the landlord's checking account -
from interest earned on the deposit that has not been credited to 
the account to which it relates. Even if the bank credits interest 
quarterly, the deposit agreement between the landlord and the bank 
probably could be in such terms that at the time the landlord's 
fee is due there will be sufficient accrued and uncredited interest 
to cover the fee. 
You may wish to suggest to the banks that raised the 
question that, should the landlord be ineligible to make a savings 
deposit under the above criteria, the use of a 30-day notice account 
(time deposit-open account) may be a satisfactory substitute. In 
the majority of cases the landlord would be able to give the required 
30-day withdrawal notice; in other cases, the landlord might be able 
to pay the tenant from the landlord's funds and be reimbursed from 
the savings account at the conclusion of the notice period. Under 
§ 217.7 of the Regulation, the maximum interest rate payable on such 
deposit is the same as is payable on a savings deposit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2460 
B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R G 
* 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 3 
8/27/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 1, 1970 
Mr. C. William Fischer, for 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Office of Management and Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Fischer: 
In response to your recent request, this letter presents 
the Board's views on S. 4056, the Fiscal Stabilization bill. The 
objective of a more flexible fiscal policy has been sought over the 
years in a number of ways and by a variety of groups. 
The bill, S. 4056, proposes several institutional innova-
tions that would facilitate temporary changes in income tax rates: 
1, It establishes a 7-member Fiscal Stabilization Board 
which is empowered to recommend to the President adjustments in 
income tax rates within a maximum adjustment range of plus or minus 
10 per cent of the tax structure embodied in existing legislation. 
The Board may specify a termination date for the tax adjustment or 
it may recommend that the adjustment should remain in effect until 
superseded by subsequent action. In this context the Board is in-
structed to monitor fiscal and monetary conditions and to report 
annually its judgment with respect to fiscal and monetary conditions 
during the preceding year and in prospect for the coming year. 
2. Once the President has received such a recommendation 
he, in turn, has the option of proposing a specific tax adjustment 
plan to Congress provided that the adjustment percentage and the 
effective period in the President's plan is no greater than that 
recommended by the Fiscal Stabilization Board. 
3. After this transmittal, either House of the Congress 
can defeat the plan by passing a resolution of disapproval within 
30 days during which Congress is in session. If such a resolution 
is not passed, the plan automatically goes into effect after the 
30 clay period. 

Mr. C. William Fischer 
- 2 -
2461 
There is much to be said for a more flexible fiscal policy, 
with respect not only to tax rates but also to expenditure programs, 
for purposes of promoting economic stabilization. Greater fiscal 
flexibility would facilitate the efficient coordination of fiscal 
and monetary policies and could make possible development of a better 
balanced stabilization effort. An improved monetary-fiscal policy 
mix would contribute, among other things, to a more equitable shar-
ing of the burden of restraint, as well as the benefits of needed 
stimulation, by various sectors of the economy. Flexibility in 
fiscal as well as monetary policies might also be of assistance in 
meshing economic stabilization efforts internationally. 
The various provisions in S. 4056 would increase the likeli-
hood of more prompt changes in tax rates in response to the needs of 
economic stabilization policies. The bill limits the tax rate changes 
to income taxes, but the inclusion of possible adjustments in other-
taxes would enlarge the potential stabilization impact. 
In order to be a successful tool of stabilization policy, 
it is necessary, of course, that improved flexibility in taxes should 
not be dissipated by offsetting shifts in Federal expenditures. Much 
of the benefit of tax-rate flexibility would be lost, if for example, 
there were to be a tendency for possible upward tax adjustment to 
encourage extra, inflationary spending. 
The Federal Reserve Board favors a more flexible fiscal 
policy, such as is aimed for by S. 4056, but it is questionable 
whether the institutional procedures set up in the bill are the most 
efficient for attaining such a policy. While there may be some advan-
tages to an independent, bipartisan Fiscal Stabilization Board, the 
disadvantages of the Board result from the fact, that it would be 
still another body recommending and, to some extent, influencing 
fiscal policy. Creating such a body would raise questions of coordi-
nation with the existing agencies and offices providing economic 
advice to the President as well as with those executing fiscal and 
monetary policies. In that respect, it might be pointed out that 
the same powers given to the President through a recommendation of 
the Fiscal Stabilization Board could, of course, be given directly 
to the President by Congress., And the Council of Economic Advisers 
is already in place as a source of economic advice; also, as part 
of its responsibilities, it evaluates fiscal and monetary conditions 
in its annual report. 
The Board of Governors appreciates the opportunity of 
expressing its views on this bill. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
8/27/70 
OF THE: 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
WA5HINGTON, D. C. £OS5l 
GEORGE W. MITCHELL 
m e m b e r 
o f 
t h e 
b o a r d 
September I, 1970 
The Honorable David M. Kennedy,' 
Secretary of the Treasury, 
Washingtonj D. C. 20220 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
Thank you for your letter of August 11, 1970, suggesting 
for consideration a proposal by the. Bureau of Engraving and Print-
ing to print $2 Federal Reserve notes. 
I am sure you are aware that the printing of a $2 bill 
was discontinued by the Treasury in 1966 because of the small demand 
and the fact that the general public was never quite willing to 
accept it for hand-to-hand circulation. The experience at that 
time revealed that the issuance of the $2 bill was resulting in 
additional expense to both the Treasury and the Federal Reserve System. 
The bills were being held for long periods unused in bank 
vaults and when paid out for special promotional uses would soon return 
to the bank vaults, often with a corner torn off or some other defacing 
which resulted in their being unfit for further circulation. At the 
peak of circulation, the $2 bill accounted for only one-third of one 
per cent of the total amount of currency outstanding and only three 
per cent of the total number of $1 bills. 
In the light of the previous 
experience, it seems to me that accomplishment of the objectives in 
your letter would require some kind of program to induce large-scale 
public acceptance of the $2 bill as a normal circulating medium. 
For the purpose of discussing this matter with your staff, 
I have designated Mr. P. D. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations, to meet with personnel you designate. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) George W. Mitchell 
George W. Mitchell 

B O A R D 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
the 
item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/27/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 27, 1970 
Mr. Pierce H. O'Donnell, 
c/o Georgetown University Law Center, 
506 E Street, N 0 W., 
Washington, D e C. 20001 
Dear Mr. O'Donnell: 
Your letter of August 3, 1970,'requested a clear state-
ment by the Board as to whether you would be granted access to 
records in the*possession of the Board with respect to V-loan 
guarantees under section 301 of the Defense Production Act of 
1950, as amended. That letter followed earlier correspondence 
in which, in response to your request for access to information 
concerning V-loans, you were advised of the Federal Reserve 
System's limited role in V-loan transactions - that of fiscal 
agent for the guaranteeing agencies - and it was suggested that 
you direct your request for information to those agencies. The 
Board's letter of July 27, 1970, enclosed a copy of Regulation V, 
and directed you to a section of the Regulation identifying the 
agencies authorized to make guarantees under the Defense Production 
Act of 1950 and Executive Order No. 10480. The Board's letter 
also identified the four agencies which guaranteed one or more of 
the 13 outstanding loans in which you expressed particular interest. 
The Attorney General's Memorandum on the Public Informa-
tion Section of the Administrative Procedure Act, which was issued 
in order to assist government agencies in developing a uniform and 
constructive implementation of the Public Information Act, states 
as follows (on page 24): 
"Most requests will probably be directed to records 
which are the exclusive concern of the agency of which 
the request is made. Where a record is requested which 
is of concern to more than one agency, the request should 
be referred to the agency whose interest in the record is 
paramount, and that agency should make the decision tc 
disclose or withhold after consultation with the other 
interested agencies. Where a record requested from an 
agency is the exclusive concern of another agency, the 
request should be referred to that other agency." 

13-164 
Mr. Pierce II. O'Donnell 
- 2 -
Loans for defense production purposes are neither made 
nor guaranteed by the Board or the Federal Reserve Banks. Rather, 
the loans are made by private financial institutions and guaranteed 
by Federal governmental agencies other than the Board, with the 
Board's role limited to supervision of the Reserve Banks, which 
serve only as agents for the guaranteeing agencies. Under these 
circumstances, it is the Board's position that any question in-
volving public disclosure of information in the possession of 
government agencies regarding the borrower, lender, amount, and 
terms of individual loans made under the program should, in each 
base, be presented to and determined by the agency principally 
involved. The Board therefore declines to make available to you 
information in its records relating to these matters. 
By letter dated August 4, 1970; you requested access to 
Board records relating to foreign banking operations of First 
National City Bank of New York and to reports filed by First 
National City Bank pursuant to the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program. 
Certain records of the Board, which would reflect some 
aspects of First National City Bank's foreign operations, are 
available for public inspection. In this category are records 
which reflect actions taken by the Board with respect to appli-
cations filed pursuant to sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601-604a, 611-631) and Federal Reserve 
Regulations K and M. Pursuant to the Public Information Act, the 
Board has maintained, since July 4, 1967, an index of actions 
taken. You may wish to examine that index to determine what actions 
were taken under the aforementioned provisions on applications of 
First National City Bank of New York. The applications, and the 
Board's action letters with respect thereto, are also available 
for inspection by the public; however, to the extent authorized 
by the Public Information Act and necessary in the particular case, 
confidential information in those materials may be deleted from 
copies made available to the public. 
Information filed pursuant to the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program is not available for public inspection, except-in 
aggregate form which does not reveal the operations of any individual 
institution. The Public Information Act exempts from its disclosure 
requirement "trade secrets and commercial or financial information 
obtained from a person and privileged or confidential" (5 U.S0C0 
552 (b)(4)). The term "person" is defined in the Act to include 
"an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or public 

2 4 6 5 
Mr. Pierce H. O'Donnell 
- 3 -
or private organization other than an agency" (5 U.S.C0 551(2)). 
Both the Senate and House Reports on the Public Information Act. 
indicate that the exemption referred to is intended to protect 
the confidentiality of information, obtained by the government 
through questionnaires or other inquiries, which would not 
customarily be released to the public by the person from whom 
it is obtained (S. Rep. No. 813, 89th CcAig. 9; H. Rep. No. 1497, 
89th Cong. 10). 
Reports filed under the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program are filed pursuant to Board request, without 
legal compulsion, and upon assurance by the Board that such 
information will be maintained in confidence. As your letter 
indicates, the information involved is of a type which the 
reporting banks do not customarily make available to the public. 
The above-quoted exemption is applicable to such information, 
and reliance upon such exemption is believed by the Board to be 
important in order to assure the continuation of the cooperation 
to which the Program owes its success. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

24 66 
Item No. 6 
8/27/70 
Delegation of Board Authority for Budget Changes 
The Chairman or his designee during the course of imple-
menting the budget adopted by the Board may approve 
(1) the establishment of a one time unbudgeted 
program or project provided that the cost shall not exceed 
$25,000, 
(2) an overexpenditure for a program or project 
specified in the budget provided that the cost of the 
overexpenditure shall not exceed $50,000 for any one program 
or project through the remainder of the budget year, 
(3) the establishment of new unbudgeted positions 
provided that the total of new unbudgeted positions shall 
not exceed 20 positions for any budget year, and 
(4) the reallocation of budgeted program or project 
funds or positions provided that the amount of any one 
reallocation shall not exceed $50,000, 
subject co the requirement that all approvals in (1) through (4) 
shall be entered in the minutes and with the further stipulation 
that all approvals in excess of $10,000 shall be reported to the 
Board promptly. At the discretion of the Chairman of the Board or 
his designee, any proposed budget change may be brought to the Board 
for determination regardless of the amount of the expenditure involved. 
August 27, 1970 
