MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 5, 1971 

2558 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 5, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
At its meeting on September 28, 1971, the Board had discussed 
Governor Sherrill's proposal for bringing the Board's employment into 
line with the President's policy to reduce Federal employment by 5 per 
cent during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1972, and had requested 
that further conversations be held with the Office of Management and 
Budget to assure that the approach proposed for the Board would be con-
sistent with that adopted by other Federal departments and agencies. 
Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of Governor Sherrill's memorandum 
dated October 4, 1971, reporting on the conversations with 0MB. 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2557 
10/5/71 
-2-
Discussion at today's meeting emphasized the Board's whole-
hearted desire to comply with both the letter and spirit of the 
President's policy on Federal employment. The Board approved the 
recommendations made by Governor Sherrill in his memorandum of 
October 4, 1971. 
The Board also approved a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks, 
as proposed by the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
Plans, containing guidelines to be followed in establishing June 30, 1972, 
employment ceilings in response to the President's 5 per cent personnel 
reduction program. A copy of the letter sent is attached as Item No. 2. 
Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of Governor Maisel's letter 
to the Reserve Banks concerning the annual fall review of proposed 
changes in Reserve Bank officers' salaries. 
Chairman Burns and Governor Sherrill withdrew from the meeting 
at this point. 
Consent Calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp., Los Angeles, California, granting 
consent to the acquisition of shares of Security Pacific Administracao e 
Servicios Limitada, a limited liability partnership to be formed in Sao 
Paulo, Brazil. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Northern 
Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Bailey's Crossroads, Virginia, to 
acquire shares of The Bank of Arlington, Arlington, Virginia, and 

2558 
10/5/71 
-3-
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by The Citizens 
Central Bank, Arcade, New York, to merge with Bank of Elba, Elba, 
New York, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Western Greenbrier Bank. The Board approved unanimously an 
application by The Western Greenbrier Bank, Rainelle, West Virginia, 
to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of The Bank of 
Rainelle, Rainelle, West Virginia, and authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Report on competitive factors. A draft report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Lebanon County Trust Company, Lebanon, Pennsylvania,with 
American Bank and Trust Co. of Pa., Reading, Pennsylvania, described 
the competitive effect as "adverse." However, discussion developed 
a majority preference for using the term "substantially adverse." 
The report was then approved for transmittal to the Comptroller 
in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 

2550 
10/5/71 
-4-
There is some competition existing between Lebanon County 
Trust Company and American Bank and Trust Co. of Pa., Reading, 
and there is potential for increased competition developing 
between them. The overall effect of the proposal on competition 
would be substantially adverse. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o- 
1 
J 
. 
10/5/71 
w S . c e 
C o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
D a t e — o c t o b e r _ 4 J _ i m — 
To___Board of Governors 
Sllbjer.t: 
Reduction of Board Employment 
from_J3gyernor Sherrill 
on June 30, 1972 
C O N F I D E N T I A L 
You will recall that during the Board review of my 
recommendations for establishing an employment ceiling on June 30, 
1972 as outlined in my memorandum dated September 22, 1971, I was 
asked by the Chairman to seek 0MB concurrence with the methodology 
that had been employed and to prepare an appropriate memorandum 
for file recording our understanding of the 0MB concurrence or lack 
thereofo 
Subsequently, I instructed the Controller to contact 
' Caspar Weinberger, Deputy Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget for the purpose of carrying out the Chairman's request. 
Mr. Weinberger referred the Controller to Mr. George Strauss, Chief 
of the Resource System Branch in the Office of Budget Review and 
the Controller and Deputy Controller met with him and various 
0MB staff representatives on September 29, 1971. The Controller's 
rfcport of this meeting is contained in Attachment 1. 
From the Controller's discussions with Mr. Strauss, we 
have determined that: 
1. 0MB staff concur in general with the methodology 
but did question the size of the 1972 add-on of 
• 
97 positions. They assumed that the Chairman would 
state that these add-ons were absolutely essential 
to meet the needs of Board high priority programs and 
tliat the needs could not be met by shifts or 
substitutions from within the authorized 1971 employ-
ment base. 
2. 0MB is making.allowances for employment growth in 
certain high priority Executive Agency programs 
during FY 1972 but will still attempt to hold end 
of FY 1972 employment levels at end of FY 1971 levels 
or less through an overall 5% reduction. 
3. 0MB staff are currently tracking our employment 
statistics which are reported monthly to the Civil 
Service Commission and annually in the President's 
budget and will be comparing our on board employ-
ment count on June 30, 1972 with the employment 
count at the beginning of the President's new 
economic policies on August 15, 1971 taking into 
consideration the status of vacancies on these dates. 

To: Board of Governors 
-2-
2561 
In view of what appears to be an OMB intention to maintain 
end of FY 1972 employment levels at or near end of FY 1971 levels 
and to monitor our performance, I would recommend the following 
modifications to my memorandum of September 22, 1971: 
1. The filling of the 48 net add-on positions 
- in 1972 should be time phased such that 24 would be 
• - filled during the first hal,f of 1972 and 24 during 
the last "half. 
2. The filling of 1971 and 1972 vacancies should be 
controlled under my direction in order to achieve 
an on board employment level on June 30, 1972 that 
would be comparable with that being planned for the 
Executive Agencies. 
3. The Controller in addition to emphasizing vacancy 
control should monitor Intermittent, part-time, 
and temporary employment, the use of overtime, and 
contracting out for services to ensure that all 
employment actions through.June 30, 1972 are consonant 
with the Board approved ceilings and cost reduction 
targets. 
4 
The Controller should maintain liaison with OMB to 
determine the extent to which the Executive Agencies 
are achieving the President's goal and any 
subsequent modifications to that goal. 
The proposed employment ceilings and the method by which they were 
derived are shown in Attachments 2 and 3. While my proposed actions 
would be stringent, I do believe that they would provide a unique 
opportunity for the Board to closely examine its staff requirements 
in some detail during this period and at the same time they would 
more than support the President's goal. 
From the standpoint of implementation, the Division Directors 
should be assigned full-time permanent employment ceilings for 
December 31, 1971 and June 30, 1972 and instructed to develop their 
197? budgets within the established 1972 ceilings. The 1972 ceilings 
would not be construed as automatically approved but would require 
full justification as a part of the 1972 budget formulation process. 
Attachments 

w 
fel^/ 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
, 
. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Attachment 1 
2 5 G 2 
ufiice Correspondence 
Date S eP t e m b e r 
1 9 7 1 
^ 
Governor Sherrill 
SllhjP-^.t: Summary of Meeting with .Office.. 
Om 
John Kakalec 
• 
of Management and Budget 
Following our meeting with you on Tuesday, September 28, 
1971, I contacted Casper Weinberger, Deputy Director, Office of 
Management and Budget (OMB), by telephone and requested a meeting 
to review the methodology that we were using in developing our 
employment reduction ceilings for June 30, 1972. Mr. Weinberger 
referred me to Mr. George Strauss, Chief of the Resource Systems 
Branch in the Office of Budget Review who agreed to meet with me 
on Wednesday, September 29, 1971 at 9:30 a.m. in the Office of 
Management and Budget. The results of that meeting are outlined 
in the subsequent paragraphs. 
The meeting was chaired by Mr. Strauss and was attended 
. by members of his staff, Mr. Tryck (the OMB representative with 
whom I had been discussing our approach earlier) from the General 
Government Programs Division, myself, and Harry Halley. I was 
asked to open the meeting and began by briefly describing the 
methodology that we had followed. The table in the attachment 
was passed out in order to focus the discussion on methodology 
and the differences between our respective systems. 
Following a brief discussion of our methodology, we then 
proceeded to question Mr. Strauss as to what OMB was doing with 
respect to the Executive Branch agencies. In response, Mr. Strauss 

2563 
- 2 -
observed that it was the President's intention that total and 
full-time permanent employment at the end of fiscal year 1973 not 
be any higher than that at the end of fiscal year 1972 after the 
5% employment reduction. He then stated that law enforcement, 
narcotics, safety and several other programs would be allowed to 
show increases during fiscal-year 1972 but that other agency 
4 
— 
' 
I 
programs were being cut by 5% and in some instances even more 
such that Executive Branch total and full-time permanent fiscal 
year 1972 employment on June 30, 1972 would show a 5% reduction. 
The Executive Agencies have been instructed not to hire from 
outside government in grades higher than GS 7-8. In arriving at 
the aggregate percentage reductions, he indicated that Weinberger, 
Schultz, and even the President had been personally involved 
where certain agencies were concerned. Mr. Strauss also noted 
that 'total employment ceilings were useful for. the purpose of 
controlling the numbers of consultants, part-time employees, etc., 
but that the most important ceilings were those being placed on 
full-time permanent employment. 
We also raised questions about the 0MB treatment of 
vacancies in the Executive Agencies. Mr. Strauss replied that 
the OMB had not used a meat ax in cutting back employment ceilings 
because of existing vacancies. The OMB rule of thumb, where 
detailed program knowledge was lacking, is that a 5% vacancy rate 
would generally be considered reasonable. 

• -3-
Mr. Strauss inquired about the dollar savings that 
would result from our proposed employment reduction actions. We 
discussed in general terms the dollar magnitudes that might 
result from such actions and he appeared to be satisfied that we 
would be supporting the President's goal dollar-wise. 
At the conclusion of the meeting, I asked Mr. Strauss 
given the circumstances under which the Board is operating, i.e., 
on a calendar year rather than a fiscal year basis, would he have 
proceeded in the same manner that we had.described in developing 
a reduced employment ceiling for June 30, 1972. He replied in the 
affirmative, but stated 
that 0MB would be reviewing the on-
board employment situation as of June 30, 1972 and comparing that 
with the situation on June 30, 1971. 
The main point of his emphasis 
here being that 0MB would normally expect to see either a reduction 
or at'least the same level of employment for total and full-time 
permanent employment in the Executive Agencies. 
Attachment 
cc: Mr. Holland 

September 28, 1971 
Attachment 2 2565 
Derivation of Proposed Board Ceilings 
as of June 30, 1972 
Total ^Employment 
Full-Time 
Permanent Employment 
1. Authorized as of 12/31/71 
.. 
(less disadvantaged youth) 
1,320 
1,268 
2.. Add projected 1972 new require-
ments 
97 
• 
97 
Adjusted authorized and 
projected for 1972 
1,417 
1,365 
iLt_JLess reduction 
• -75* 
(5.3%) 
-75* 
(5.5%) 
Proposed Board ceiling as of 
- 
6/30/72 
1,342 
1,290 
* A 5% reduction would reduce total employment by 71 persons 
and full time permanent employment by 68 persons. 
\ • * V tx 

14951 
1971-
8/15 
Comparison of Planned and Revised Full-Tine Permanent 
Employment Ceilings with Projected Employment 
Attachment 3 
1972-
12/31 
6/30 
•1973-
12/31 
1470.. 
1445. 
1420.. 
1395.. 
1370 . 
1345.. 
1320.. 
1295. 
1270 . 
1245.. 
1220.. 
1195.. 
1170 
1145 
t2J) 
>. -87 Vacancies (77.) 
y -81 Vacancies (6.67.) 
y/V* L. 
' On. B°_ar_d- - - - ~ 'j 
~ ] ) 
+7 (0.67.) 
' 
I ! 
> -75 (5.57.) 
I i 
t 
• i 
; i 
/ 3 o ' 
/J'?C 
•pbas ed "(+24") 
• -89 Vacancies (77.) 
; |ic^_ 
. . ^ _ 
+29 (2.57,) 
l ' 
>-75 (5.57,) 
>. -90 Vacancies 
(77,) 
1 
'Lil 
|>+52 (4.67,) 
to 
vT 
w« 
(75 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
256 
4 
Item No. 2 
' M m & o : . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 0 / 5 / 7 1 
ADDRCES UfrlCIAL CJORESPONflENCE 
TO THE DOAFJD 
October 3a 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL .(PR) 
As yoa knows the President's new economic program announced 
on August 15f 1971, included a 5 per cent reduction in Federal employ-
ment and as noted by Chairman Burns and generally agreed with at the 
Federal Open Market Committee meeting on August 24, the Federal Reserve 
System will want to comply with the spirit of the President's program. 
Accordingly, g u i d e l i n e s have been developed for action both at the 
Board and the Reserve Banks in effecting the required 5 per cent 
reduction, in employment. 
Because of differences between the budgeting systems in 
use by Government agencies, the Board of Governors and the Federal 
Reserve Banks, it has been necessary to tailor separate policy guide-
lines but within these limitations, the policies are intended to fol-
io;; closely those established for the Executive Branch by the Office 
of. Management and Budget, Broadly, District employment ceilings will, 
be established by applying a 5 per cent reduction to the number of 
full-tine positions authorized by the Board in the budget for the 
second half of 1971, after making appropriate allowances for seasonal 
employment changes anticipated in the first half of next year. Part-
time, temporary, disadvantaged youth, and EEO positions arc exempted 
and should be excluded from the ceiling. In addition, at the time 
budgeto for first half 1972 are reviewed, the Board will consider 
exempting selected additional positions proposed t:o achieve announced 
System policy objectives of a high priority. At the same time, 
increases needed to meet critical or unusual circumstances of a 
pressing nature will also be considered. 
An a patter of general policy, the required staff reductions 
are to occur substantially by normal attrition and the target date for 
arriving at the employment ceiling is June 30, 1972, The ceilings 
should be established on a District basis and it is not intended that 

2568 
2 
-
limits be established for each department or each office within a 
District unless Bank management decides to install its personnel 
reduction program on that basis. 
In establishing the 3 per cent employment guideline, the 
President is striving to effect commensurate reductions in personnel 
expenditures from those levels anticipated in the current fiscal 
year budgets of the various Federal agencies. The Reserve Banks, 
therefore, should (1) take appropriate steps to identify personnel 
expenditures which would be associated with the full-time positions 
affected by the 5 per cent reduction and to reflect these savings 
in the budgets for the first half of 1972, and (2) avoid offsetting 
the effect of the staff ceiling by increasing expenditures for part-
time, temporary, contractual, or other types of assistance. 
In line with the above, attached is a proposed reporting 
form to be submitted for each office along with the budgets for the 
first half of 1972. Budget data presented this fall should also 
include a detailed explanation and justification of all proposed 
seasonal and other changes in employment anticipated during the 
first half of 1972. 
The period during which this effort is implemented will, 
of course, be a difficult one, especially in view of demands imposed 
by the many and varied ongoing service and support activities coupled 
with the new initiatives being undertaken. It is recognised that 
continued and aggressive effort on the part of Reserve Bank manage-
ment will be essential to realizing the goals established. The cost 
reduction programs you have set up in response to Chairman Burns 
letter of July 29 should provide a firm basis for the action required 
under this aspect of the President's program. 
Very truly yours, 
J 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

2569 
Employment Base for 5% Reduction 
and 
Estimated Payroll Expense Savings 
Federal Reserve Bank or Branch 
-
^mber of occupied and 
acarit full-time positions 
bj^r°veci ih last half 1971 
jj, &et excluding those in 
^advantaged Youth or 
,'VO., Programs 
^stimated increase or 
s
 Crp-ase in number of 
®*?'6nal first half 1972 
flUUi 
subfc 
time positions 
°tal A 1" B 
Hff 
57, reduction 
Siibfe 
o t a i 
Sbp • 
iCl^3' c Board-approved 
s^s
ltions for priority 
ProSraias o r 
Unu
 
l n2 critical or 
'£lJal circumstances. 
°tal employee ceiling, 
n e 30, 1972 
Total Annual Payroll Expense 
(including benefits, overtime, 
etc. 
+ 
J 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
2570 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 3 
10/5/71 
WASHINGTON, D. C.. 2DS5I 
'Ml nt 
October 6, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 10045 
Dear A1: 
Since the nature of phase two of the President's new economic 
program is not yet established, specific guidelines for the treatment 
of proposed changes in Reserve Bank officers' salaries cannot be issued 
at this time. However, the effects of the phase two provisions on the 
Board's posture with respect to Reserve Bank officers' salaries should 
be known by mid-November and, accordingly, the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans feels that preliminary discussion on 
this subject would again be useful this year. In this connection, it 
will be appreciated if each President will schedule his meeting with the 
Committee for the purpose of discussing salaries sometime between 
November 15 and December 15, 1971. 
Recognizing r.hat submissions of Reserve Bank budgets will 
take place just after mid-November, you may wish to consider possible 
courses of action with regard to the salary cost of any increases con-
templated. One would be to include provisions for such increases in 
the budget submission in the usual way with such increases specifically 
identified. 
The other is to exclude the amounts associated with the 
proposed increases from the budgets, but submit a record of them for 
separate consideration. 
This letter is being sent to the Chairman and President of 
each Federal Reserve Bank. 
Cordially 
(Signed) Sherman J. Maisel 
Sherman J. Maisel 
Chairman 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
and Building Plans 
Identical letters sent to the Presidents and 
Chairmen of all Federal Reserve Banks 

^UTRE^V 
2571 
BDARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 0 / 5 / 7 1 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
' lillllP^VF' 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
i-U!IJjA<-V<oY 
TO T H E B O A R D 
October 5, 1971 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp. 
561 South Spring Street 
Los Angeles, California 90013 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of August 27, 1971, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("SPOC") to purchase and hold 99 per cent of the equity 
of Security Pacific Administracao e Servicios Limitada ("Administracao ), 
a limited liability partnership to be formed in Sao Paulo, Brazil, 
at a cost of up to $150,000, provided such shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Administracao by SPOC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That SPOC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in Administracao if Administracao at 
any times fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if Administracao establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to SPOC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, SPOC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Administracao as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Administracao 
be reported under Section 211.3(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Administracao were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

2572 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp. 
2 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Administracao in 
Brazil in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of 
Association, 'Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of Administracao. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to Security Pacific National Bank and its 
subsidiaries, and that full consideration is being given to the prior-
ities for U.S. export financing and for meeting the credit needs of 
developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tjman Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 
10/5/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
NORTHERN VIRGINIA BANKSHARES INCORPORATED,' 
Bailey's Crossroads, Virginia, 
1 
approval of acquisition of 41.96 per ' 
cent or more of the voting shares of The ' 
Sank of Arlington, Arlington, Virginia. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
^842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Northern Virginia Bankshares 
incorporated, Bailey's Crossroads, Virginia, for the Board's prior 
aPproval of the acquisition of 41.96 per cent or more of the voting 
scares of The Bank of Arlington, Arlington, Virginia ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Virginia 
Commissioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation, 
"^e Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

2574 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 21, 1971 (36 Federal Register 16536), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the smallest bank holding company in Virginia, 
controls two subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $12.7 
m*-llion, representing less than .2 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State, (Unless otherwise indicated, all banking 
data are as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company 
acquisitions and formations approved by the Board through August 31, 
^71.) Consummation of the proposal herein would increase Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State only slightly, and it would remain 
the State's smallest bank holding company. 
Bank, which began operations on February 1, 1971, is located 
suburban Washington, D, C., and is the smallest of the seven banking 
°rganizations operating in Arlington County, holding $3,2 million in 

-3-
2575 
deposits ae of June 30, 1971* Although the closest offices of Applicant's 
subsidiary banks and Bank are six miles apart, there are numerous offices 
competing institutions in the intervening area, and Bank competes 
directly with several larger institutions, including Virginia's largest 
bank and affiliates of five holding companies, all significantly larger 
than Applicant. Furthermore, the principal organizers of Bank included 
Persons who are closely associated with Applicant. In light of that 
relationship and other factors set forth above, consummation of the 
Proposal herein would not eliminate substantial existing competition. 
Moreover, the development of any substantial future competition between 
Bank and either of Applicant's subsidiaries appears unlikely because 
o f the size of Bank, the presence of a large number of competing 
institutions in the immediate area, and the Virginia law restricting 
de novo branching across county boundaries. Acquisition of Bank by 
Applicant should enhance Bank's ability to compete more effectively 
with the area's larger banking institutions. On the basis of the 
record before it, the Board concludes that consummation of the pro-
P°sal would not adversely affect competition in any area. 
Considerations relating to the financial condition, manage-
ment, and prospects of Applicant, its present subsidiaries, and Bank 
a re consistent with approval of the application. As a result of its 
affiliation with Applicant, Bank would be in a position to better 
serve the expanding needs of its community. Considerations relating 
t o the convenience and needs factors, therefore, lend some weight in 

2576 
-4-
support of approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered> On the basis of the record, that 
said application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized 
above, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 5, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor 
Sherrill• 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

Item 
10/5/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE CITIZENS CENTRAL BANK, 
Arcade, New York, 
for approval of merger with 
Bank of Elba, Elba, New York. 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by The Citizens 
Central Bank, Arcade, New York ("Citizens Bank"), a member State bank 
of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the 
merger of that bank and Bank of Elba, Elba, New York ("Elba Bank"), 
under the charter and name of Citizens Bank, 
As an incident to the merger, the sole office of Elba Bank 
Would become a branch of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed 
merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to 
said Act. 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on the 
competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 

2578 
-2-
Board has considered all relevant material contained in the record in 
the light of the factors set forth in the Act, including the effect of 
the proposal on competition, the financial and managerial resources and 
Prospects of the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served, and finds that: 
Citizens Bank, a subsidiary of Charter New York Corporation, 
New York, with deposits of $35 million, is the eleventh largest of 
32 banks headquartered in New York's Ninth Banking District wherein it 
operates five banking offices in three of the District's eight counties 
(all banking data are as of December 31, 1970). Elba Bank, with deposits 
of $2 million, operates its sole office in Elba and is the only bank 
serving the town. It is the smallest of three banks domiciled in Genesee 
County wherein it holds 11 per cent of total county deposits. The nearest 
offices of Citizens Bonk to Elba Bank are its main office in Arcade and 
its branch in Silver Springs, located 46 and 41 miles, respectively, from 
Elba. In the intervening area there are eight banking offices, which 
include branches of the three largest Buffalo-based banks. 
The relevant market within which the competitive effects of 
the proposed merger are to be assessed is the Batavia Banking Market, 
which encompasses an area approximately half the distance between Rochester 
and Buffalo, consisting of Genesee County and the towns of Bennington, 
Attica, Middleburg, and Covington in Wyoming County. Elba Bank is the 
seventh smallest of eight banks represented in the market. The proposed 
^rger is Applicant's first entry into this market and would result in 
its control of only 1.9 per cent of the market's total deposits. 

2579 
-3-
The merging banks do not compete with one another in the 
relevant market, and there is no significant competition between 
other subsidiary banks of Charter New York Corporation and Elba Bank, 
Further, no substantial potential competition would be foreclosed by 
consummation of the proposed merger considering Elba Bank's size, the 
economy of the area, and the restrictions placed on branching into 
Elba by New York State banking laws. Consummation of the proposed 
transaction would not result in a substantial increase in concentration 
levels on a local or Statewide basis. Based upon all the facts revealed 
in the record, the Board concludes that the merger would not have an 
adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of the 
Merging banks and the resulting bank are satisfactory and consistent 
with approval of the application. Considerations under the convenience 
and needs aspects of the proposal lend some support in favor of approval 
since consummation of the merger would provide customers of Elba Bank 
with a more varied range of banking services than is presently offered 
them. Based upon the foregoing, it is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposal would be in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 

2580 
-4-
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 5, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

2581 
Item No. 7 
10/5/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE WESTERN GREENBRIER BANK, 
Rainelle, West Virginia, 
approval of acquisition of assets 
ar*d assumption of liabilities of The 
Bank of Rainelle, Rainelle, West Virginia. 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by The 
Western Greenbrier Bank, Rainelle, West Virginia ("Greenbrier Bank"), 
a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the merger of that bank with The Bank of Rainelle, 
Rainelle, West Virginia ("Rainelle Bank"), by means of the purchase 
of 
assets and assumption of liabilities of the Rainelle Bank. Upon 
c°nsummation of the transaction the present office of the Rainelle 
^ank will be closed, Notice of the proposed action, in form approved 
ky the Board, has been published as required by said Act, 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on 
competitive 
factors involved from the Attorney General, the Comp-
troller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION 
FOR ACQUISITION OF ASSETS 
AND ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITIES 
UNDER BANK MERGER ACT. 

2-
2582 
She Board has considered all relevant material contained in the record 
in the light of the factors set forth in the Act, including the effect 
°f the proposal on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and prospects of the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served, and finds that: 
Rainelle Bank ($3.9 million deposits), the smallest of 
six banks in Greenbrier County holding 9 per cent of county deposits, 
is the smaller of two banks located in Rainelle. It was established 
in 1911 as a subsidiary of a local lumber company and throughout 
its existence has served primarily as a depository for the benefit 
°f that company and its employees. In December 1970, Georgia Pacific 
Corporation and its subsidiary, Georgia Pacific Timber Corporation, 
acquired the assets of the lumber company and, as an incident to that 
acquisition, the Rainelle Bank. Shortly thereafter, upon passage 
°f the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 on December 31, 
1^70, the Georgia Pacific corporations became holding companies 
subject to the provisions of the Act. Pursuant to section 4(c)(12) 
°f the Act, the Georgia Pacific corporations have filed with the 
Board of Governors irrevocable declarations of intent to divest 
themselves of their interest in Rainelle Bank. 
The present proposal comes as a result of Georgia Pacific's 
efforts to dispose of its interest in Rainelle Bank pursuant to the 
aforesaid declaration. Numerous individuals and banking organizations 
Were contacted by Georgia Pacific for the purpose of finding a pro-
spective purchaser of Rainelle Bank. All efforts to sell the stock of 

Rainelle Bank including such efforts to sell the Bank to residents 
of the Rainelle area or another bank outside of Rainelle were un-
successful. .Georgia Pacific is thus presented with the alterna-
tive of liquidating Rainelle Bank or disposing of it by merger with 
Greenbrier Bank. If this application is denied, Georgia Pacific 
intends to liquidate Rainelle Bank. 
A principal reason given for Georgia Pacific's failure 
to interest any prospective purchaser other than Greenbrier Bank 
is that West Virginia laws prohibit branching and the formation of 
bank holding companies in the State. Any existing bank acquiring 
Rainelle Bank, therefore, would have to cease operating at any other 
location to be able to continue the activities of Rainelle Bank in 
Rainelle. Rainelle Bank has operated in rent-free quarters owned 
by 
the lumber company. These facilities are inadequate and it will 
be necessary for any purchaser to construct new banking quarters. 
Georgia Pacific has said it would not improve Bank's facilities 
because of its intent to cease the Bank's operations pursuant to 
its irrevocable declaration filed with the Board. The necessity 
f°r the construction of new quarters coupled with the economy of the 
Rainelle area, discussed below, have been further factors influencing 
negatively the decision of prospective purchasers. 
Rainelle (population 1,800) is an economically stagnant and 
geographically remote community situated in a mountainous area in the 
southeastern section of the State of West Virginia. Population of 

2584 
-4-
Rainelle area decreased significantly in the last 10 years, in 
Part as a result of local coal mining facilities becoming highly 
mechanized and the location of the community. Future prospects for 
economic growth are very uncertain and the operation of the lumber 
mi-H, formerly Rainelle!s largest employer, as a consequence of its 
acquisition by Georgia Pacific, is to become highly automated, resulting 
in further unemployment in the area. 
Rainelle Bank has never functioned aggressively as a 
commercial bank, either by way of competing for deposits in Rainelle 
° r Greenbrier County or adequately serving the credit needs of its 
/ 
community. Its depository character, extremely small loan to deposit 
to 
ratio, and failure to improve its inadequate banking facilities support 
t^is conclusion. (Approximately 45 per cent of its demand deposits 
d 
crive from 14 accounts; Rainelle Bank's total loans represent only 
about 14 per cent of total deposits.) 
Applicant, Greenbrier Bank ($6.2 million deposits), located 
° n e mile west of Rainelle Bank is the only potential purchaser that 
expressed any interest in acquiring Rainelle Bank. It is the 
fifth largest of six banks in Greenbrier County with 12 per cent of 
commercial bank deposits- Upon consummation of the proposed merger, 
Greenbrier Bank will rank second in Greenbrier County, with approxi- 
. ,{
lately 21 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the county. 
C°nsummation of the proposed transaction will have no significantly 
Averse effect upon competition in Greenbrier County, 

Rainelle is located near the boundary of Fayette County 
which contains offices of eight banks. Banks located in Alderson, 
Ronceverte and White Sulfur Springs advertise in the Rainelle news-
Paper and presently do provide financial services to some residents 
°f the Rainelle area. Completion of a new interstate highway leading 
to these surrounding communities will increase the ability of Rainelle 
a r ea residents to utilize these existing banking alternatives. While 
approval of the instant proposal may appear to have the effect of 
eliminating some existing competition in the town of Rainelle, the 
same elimination of such competition will occur if this proposal is 
denied and Rainelle Bank liquidated. 
Terms of the proposed transaction do not appear to involve 
the payment of any premium by the Greenbrier Bank to Georgia Pacific 
Electing the acquisition of a going concern or indicating an 
intent on that Bank's part to acquire a monopoly position in Rainelle. 
The virtual certainty that Rainelle Bank will be liquidated leads to 
the conclusion that any diminution or deterioration in competition 
111 Rainelle will arise independently of the proposed merger. Since 
there is no other known prospective purchaser for Rainelle Bank, the 
B°ard concludes that the purpose of the proposed merger is not one 
lessening competition, but of mitigating possible undesirable 
c°nsequences to the community of Rainelle and should not be viewed 
a s the acquisition of a monopoly by Applicant in Rainelle. 

2586 
-6-
Uhile the financial condition of Rainelle Bank is satisfactory, 
it faces serious management succession problems' since its chief 
operating officer is in poor health and has stated his intention 
to retire and there is no successor available from the bank's present 
staff. The financial condition of Greenbrier Bank is satisfactory 
although it also has a relatively low loan volume. Its management 
and banking quarters appear adequate and consummation of the present 
proposal should enable it to better serve the financial needs of 
Rainelle- It, therefore, appears that the financial needs of the 
Rainelle community will be more adequately served by the strengthened 
Greenbrier Bank. 
Avoidance of public inconvenience and confusion brought 
about by the liquidation of the Rainelle Bank and the infusion of 
additional resources into the Greenbrier Bank, with the resulting 
enlarged lending capability, clearly constitute significant public 
interest benefits to the convenience and needs of the Rainelle 
community which in our opinion outweigh any anticompetitive con-
sequences which will result by virtue of the approval of this 
Proposal. 
The Board has considered all relevant material contained 
itl the record, in light of the factors set forth in the 
Bank Merger Act, and it is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
ition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 

2587 
-1-
i 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that 
said application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized 
above, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 5, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Ilitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor 
Sherrill. 
: ' 
• • 1 - 
' 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
