q B H i m 
FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 2, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
J : i £ 
' / 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

551 
3/2/71 
-2-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
First at Orlando Corporation. The Board unanimously approved 
the application of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to 
acquire shares of Tampa Bay Bank, Tampa, Florida, and authorized the 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision in the form attached as 
Item No. 1. 
First National City Overseas. In March 1970 the Board approved 
the acquisition by First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, of 59 per cent (240,000 shares) of the capital stock 
of Credivit, S.A., Namur, Belgium. Under Belgian law no shareholder of 
a societe anonyme may vote more than 20 per cent of the total stock. 
First National City now requested permission to acquire two Delaware 
corporations to be organized for the purpose of holding 80,000 shares 
each of the Belgian subsidiary, and possibly also to hold shares of 
other nonbank foreign financial corporations that might be acquired in 
the future. 
Discussion brought out that the device of splitting holdings in 
order to vote stock of a subsidiary had been sanctioned in other instances. 
It was not certain, however, that Belgian authorities were aware of First 
National City's intention to use that device in the present case. There 
was agreement that additional information should be developed on this point. 

552 
3/2/71 
-3-
Fidelity International. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to The Fidelity International Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania, granting consent to exchange its present holdings of Balthex 
International Inc., Philadelphia, for shares of Bandtex International 
Inc., also of Philadelphia. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
First National Bank of Commerce. A letter to First National 
Bank of Commerce, New Orleans, Louisiana, granting permission to estab-
lish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, was approved, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Valley Bancorporation. On December 31, 1970, the Board gave 
preliminary consideration to the application of Valley Bancorporation, 
Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Farmers and Merchants Bank, 
Weyauwega, Wisconsin, but deferred action. Subsequently, the report 
of the Department of Justice on the competitive effects was received, the 
conclusion being adverse, and applicant had filed a reply. In a memoran-
dum dated February 23 the Division of Supervision and Regulation reiter-
ated its recommendation of denial. The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
had also recommended denial, but the Banking Markets Section favored 
approval. 
Today's discussion indicated that views were evenly divided, and 
action was deferred pending an opportunity for all members of the Board 
to participate. 

553 
3/2/71 
-2-
Checking accounts for mutual savings banks. At the meeting 
on February 22, 1971, the Board discussed a request by the Bankers 
Associations of Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New Hampshire for 
Federal Reserve support in obtaining postponement of legislation pro-
posed in those States that would permit mutual savings banksto offer 
checking accounts. Reply to a letter from the Associations was left in 
Governor Sherrill's hands, but the Secretary had informed President 
Morris of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston of the Board's reluctance 
to have him appear before one or more of the State legislatures in 
opposition to the proposals. 
In a memorandum dated March 1, 1971, the Office of the Secretary 
indicated that President Morris would like to have the Board reconsider; 
if he did not testify he faced a difficult bank relations problem, 
especially with respect to smaller banks. The memorandum suggested a 
framework for such testimony if the Board agreed. 
Views were divided with respect to the question of testimony by 
President Morris. Some members expressed the view that Reserve Bank 
Presidents should not be fettered in such activities; others believed 
that even if Mr. Morris purported to appear as an individual his remarks 
were bound to be regarded as reflecting a System posture. Comments were 
made that if a Board position could be formulated, that would provide a 
suitable response to the request for testimony by President Morris. 

554 
3/2/71 
-2-
Exploration of the elements of a possible Board position, 
based on views that had emerged from related past discussions, devel-
oped unanimous agreement that in principle financial institutions that 
accept demand deposits should be subject to reserve requirements. Ques-
tion was raised whether this should not be limited to Federally-insured 
institutions, but a view was expressed that the terms should be kept 
general, at least for the present. 
Governor Sherrill requested that the record reflect his view 
that such a position, while theoretically sound,was politically imprac-
tical unless a cutoff was provided to exempt small institutions. 
Discussion of the question of public announcement of a Board 
position included suggestions for publication in the Annual Report for 
1970 and for release to the press of a letter, with an explanatory 
statement. However, no consensus developed regarding procedures. 
The discussion then reverted to the question of testimony by 
President Morris. Governors Robertson, Mitchell, and Sherrill were in 
favor of interposing no objection to such testimony, and Governors Daane, 
Maisel, and Brimmer felt it would be unwise. However, there was agreement 
that President Morris be informed that, although in the Board's view any 
institution that accepted demand deposits should be subject to reserve 
requirements, there was an even division of opinion regarding the advis-
ability of his appearance before a State legislature on this subject. 
(Secretary's Note: President Morris decided not to testify, but sent a 

555 
3/2/71 
-6-
letter to a number of banks in the First District mentioning his inabil-
ity to present an official Federal Reserve position and referring to 
comments he had made in a speech in 1970 bearing upon the questions 
raised. Copies of the letter and its enclosure have been placed in 
the Board's files.) 
Travel reporting. Unanimous approval was given to the inaugu-
ration of a reporting system that would enable members of the Board to 
keep each other informed of their travel plans. The system had been 
devised by the Committee on Travel and its proposed implementation was 
described in a memorandum dated March 1, 1971, from the Office of the 
U) 
. 
• , 
; v.: . * • l I > -J^: ' : t 
. • 
' >. 
' 
Secretary. A copy of the memorandum has been placed in the Board's 
files. 
Retirement System. In a memorandum dated February 16, 1971, 
the Division of Personnel Administration referred to provisions of the 
Retirement Plan of the Federal Reserve Banks under which changes in 
Civil Service Retirement law are incorporated into the Board Plan. The 
Division recommended that no objection be interposed to incorporating 
into the Board Plan the following changes in Civil Service Retirement 
law provided by Public Law 91-658, approved on January 8, 1971: 
(1) Permit a retiree who was unmarried at the time of 
retirement to provide a survivor annuity for a spouse 
whom he married after retirement; 
(2) Provide a survivor annuity for the "second" spouse 
of a retiree who elected a survivor annuity when he 
retired; 

556 
3/2/71 
-2-
(3) Make requirements for survivor annuity to be met by 
a widower of an employee the same as for a widow; 
(4) Permit a reemployed annuitant to use his supplemental 
annuity to increase his survivor's benefit; and 
(5) Provide service credit for certain periods of separa-
tion during which employees received Federal Employees' 
Compensation benefits. 
The recommendation was approved unanimously. A copy of the 
letter sent to the Secretary of the Retirement System is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
Export financing. Upon recommendation by Governor Brimmer, the 
Board authorized the publication of a report on the results of a survey 
to determine the amount of foreign lending by American banks that finances 
U.S. exports. The survey was a supplement to the inquiry, the results of 
which were published on January 7, 1971, regarding the possible effect in 
1970 of the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program on export financing 
and on exports. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Mcintosh, and Kakalec. 
Reorganization of Division. Governor Sherrill explained the 
proposed reorganization of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Opera-
tions, as described in his memorandum to the Board of February 24, 1971 
(copy attached as Item No. 5). Comments and questions by Board members 
ranged over a number of issues, including the receptivity of the Reserve 
Banks to such a changed thrust of Divisional activities. The Board then 

8 
3/2/71 
-2-
approved the reorganization plan as specified in Governor Sherrillfs 
memorandum, including the official appointments of Walter Althausen, 
Harry A. Guinter, and Donald G. Barnes as therein recommended, effec-
tive March 2, 1971. 
(Secretary's Note: Pursuant to the foregoing 
discussion and action, Governor Sherrill approved annual salary rates 
as follows: Mr. Althausen, $27,300; Mr. Guinter, $27,300; Mr. Barnes, 
$22,500. Governor Sherrill also approved an annual salary rate of 
$27,500 for P. D. Ring as Assistant Director. These rates were all 
effective March 2, 1971.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
r 
Secretary 

558 
Item No. 
2 
3/2/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
Orlando, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 
Per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Tampa Bay Bank, Tampa, 
Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of First at Orlando Corporation, 
Orlando, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of Tampa Bay Bank, Tampa, Florida ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Commissioner 
°f Banking and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 

*-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 14, 1971 (36 Federal Register 575), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the fifth largest banking organization in Florida 
controlling 16 banks with $476 million in deposits, representing 3.9 per 
cent of the deposits held by all banking organizations in the State. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
January 31, 1971.) Applicant^ acquisition of Bank (deposits of $13 
million) would increase its share of deposits in the State by less than 
two tenths of 1 per cent. 
Bank is the tenth largest of 21 banking organizations serving 
Hillsborough County, holding only 2.1 per cent of the deposits in that 
area. Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank is located 60 miles 

560 
-3-
east of Bank in Lake Wales, Florida.. Because o£ this distance between 
I t • 
A ! 
the two, the presence of intervening banks and restrictive Florida law, 
there is little meaningful competition between them and, based on the 
facts of record, little possibility that more competition will develop 
in the future. Through affiliation with Applicant, Bank would be in a 
stronger position to compete with its much larger competitors in 
Hillsborough County, two of which each have deposits in excess of $200 
million. Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes acquisition of 
Bank would not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant 
area, and is likely to have a pro-competitive effect in the Hillsborough 
County area. 
The banking factors as they pertain to Applicant and Bank are 
consistent with approval of the application. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of banking customers in Hillsborough County 
lend some weight in favor of approval of the application. Although the 
needs of those customers are being served, consummation of the acquisition 
will enable Bank to offer additional services (such as trust services) 
which are presently being offered only by large banks in the area or 
those affiliated with large banking organizations. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
and should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 

12 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the dat^ o£ this Order, unless 
such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 
2, 1971. 
Voting for this action: vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Msicel, Brimmer, ana Sherrill. 
/.bcent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Kenneth A, ICenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
562 
Item No. 2 
3/2/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 2, 1971 
The Fidelity International Corporation, 
123 South Broad Street, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19109 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 12, 1971, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
("FIC") to exchange its 110 shares (21 per cent) of Balthex 
International Inc. ("Balthex"), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
for 1,100 shares (21 per cent) of Bandtex International Inc. 
("Bandtex"), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at no additional 
cost, provided such exchange is made within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is granted on condition 
that the present operations of Balthex as described in 
your letter of July 20, 1966, will be continued by Bandtex 
without interruption and without any change in their scope 
or nature, particularly as to the type and extent of the 
operations in the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

563 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
3/2/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 2, 1971. 
First National Bank of Commerce 
New Orleans, Louisiana 
70112 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to First National Bank of Commerce, New Orleans, 
Louisiana, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by 
another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to a searching review of 
these types of facilities now being conducted by the Board and after 
due notice may be withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission 
is also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and 
will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1972, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 

First National Bank of Commerce -2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Sec-
tion 213.7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
• • 
Deputy Secretary 

of cov£ 
V . 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R 5 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
3/2/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 9, 1971 
Mr. Martin Bergin, Secretary 
Retirement System of the 
Federal Reserve Banks 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
Pursuant to its resolution of November 2, 1943, establish-
ing the Board Retirement Plan for the purpose of providing the same 
retirement and disability allowances as those available under the 
Civil Service Retirement System, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System interposes no objection to incorporating into 
the Board Retirement Plan those amendments to the Civil Service 
Retirement law as provided under Public Law 91-658, approved 
January 8, 1971, a copy of which is enclosed. 
The Board of Governors asks that the System actuary be 
requested to determine the cost of incorporating the benefits pro-
vided under the Public Law 91-658 into the Board Retirement Plan and, 
to the extent possible it is the Board's intention to fund this cost 
by 
transfer in the accounts of the Retirement Plan for Employees of 
the Federal Reserve System from the Reserve Against Investments 
account to the Retirement Reserve account. Should the surplus funds 
^n the Reserve Against Investments account be insufficient for this 
Purpose, please advise the Board. 
In addition to the copy of Public Law 91-658, there are 
enclosed a copy of the House of Representatives subcommittee Hearings 
°n H.R. 3661 and related bills, a U.S. Civil Service Commission news 
release dated January 13, 1971, covering the changes in the Civil 
Service Retirement System made by the Public Law and, a copy of the 
Federal Personnel Manual letter 831-26 which explains the changes in 
the Civil Service Retirement law. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Enclosures 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

• •ARD • F CDVERNORG 
urr.u: 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/2/71 
V:*^. 
-m 
-I 
^ O ^ e S p G ^ e i l C S 
D-tn 
February 24, 1971 
J 
Board of Governors 
Subject: Reorganization of Division of 
^ — 
Cover nor Sh err ill 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations. 
It is proposed that the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations be reorganised along the lines described in this memoran-
dum. The current and suggested organization charts of the Division 
are attached to assist the Board in its consideration of this matter. 
Embodied in the proposal are certain measures designed to 
accomplish the following: 
1. To- initiate a process which would eventually free the 
Division head from direct involvement with day-to-day 
operations of the Division so that he might focus his 
attention on broader policy and directional issues. 
2. To provide for planning and systems development capa-
bilities. 
> 
3. To regroup and restructure various Sections to achieve 
more effective performance, particularly with respect 
to the analysis and evaluation of Reserve Bank opera-
tions and management. 
4. To provide for improved official supervision in 
several important areas. 
It is probable that additional changes will be suggested 
to the Board in the future, but the present proposals are considered 
desirable at this time to begin the process of redirecting the 
division's efforts. 
Below is a description of the major provisions of the 
reorganization. 
-
1. Planning and Systems Development:. 
It is proposed that a 
new ?lanning and Systems Development Section be established which 
would be under the official supervision of an Assistant Director 
Who would report directly to the Division head. 
These functions 
are not now being performed anywhere in the Division. 
The staff 
would consist of five intermediate and high-level Planning Analysts. 
Its major function would be to develop new information, evaluation, 
and control mechanisms pertaining to Reserve Bank operations for 

To: Board of Governors 
-2-
567 
use by the other Sections within the Division. 
Examples in this 
category include new Reserve Bank budget procedures, a top-management 
summary of Reserve Bank cost, productivity, and other operating data, 
and criteria for measuring Reserve Bank management performance. 
Other 
major responsibilities of the group would be to assist the Director in 
formulating Division and Section goals, objectives, and operating 
plans, and to undertake intermediate and long-range planning. 
The 
Section would keep abreast of and advise the Director and other Divi-
sion officials with respect to technological, operational, and other 
developments within the Federal Reserve System. 
2. Operations Analysis. 
This Section, with a present authorized 
complement of 18 positions, embraces a wide and varied range of activi-
ties associated with the monitoring of Federal Reserve Bank operations 
ana control information systems. 
Presently, the officer in charge also 
has responsibility for the construction planning activity. 
The pro-
posed reorganization envisages dissolving the Operations Analysis 
Section and creating'an Operations and Management Group consisting of 
three sections--(1) Cash and Accounting, (2) Cost and Budget Analysis, 
and (3) Evaluation--the entire Operations and Management Group would 
be under the official supervision of an Assistant Dj.rec4:or. 
This realignment is intended to (a) emphasize and redirect 
the Division's efforts with respect to meaningful evaluations of 
Reserve Bank performance; (b) provide for a more consistent and 
improved analysis of various Reserve Bank operating data; (c) structure 
the numerous activities into more manageable organizational units; and 
(d) concentrate in one area related Reserve Bank accounting functions 
which are now spread among three Sections in the Division. 
The staff 
is seriously undermanned, with a result that Division performance in 
this important area has been unsatisfactory. 
It is proposed at this 
time, therefor, to augment the Operations and Management Group by an 
additional eight positions. 
3* Discount Operations. While in a state of evolution, the 
importance and scope of the Division's responsibilities in this area 
are growing steadily. 
In recognition of this, as well as in the 
interest of consolidating the various Reserve Bank accounting func-
tions, it is proposed that the Cash and General Books Section now 
assigned to the officer in charge of Discount Administration be trans-
ferred to, and merged, with, the new Cash and Accounting Section 
referred to in paragraph No. 2 above. 
It is also proposed that an 
Economist be added to the Discount Staff to provide a needed capa-
bility from that discipline. 

568 
To: Board of Governors 
-2-
4. Construction Planning. Tne workload in this Section-
already at a high level--will increase substantially during the next 
few years. 
It is quite specialized, subject to demanding time con-
straints, and often involves somewhat trying negotiations with 
senior Reserve Bank officials. 
This is one of the most sensitive 
areas, in terms of Board-Bank relationships, with which the Division 
deals, and it requires a strong, expert, and tactful leadership. 
In 
the interest of freeing che Division head from much of his direct 
involvement in Bank building matters, as well as to provide for 
improved management in Construction Planning, it is proposed that an 
Assistant Director be appointed in charge of Construction Planning. 
5. Field Examinations. With an authorized complement of 31 
positions, this is the largest Section in the Division. When the 
Examination function was transferred from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation three years ago, some concern was expressed by the 
Director of that Division over the possible conflict between the 
objectives of Reserve Bank efficiency and security. As a result, 
it was agreed that the Examination function would report directly 
to the Division head rather than through the normal chain of command 
as originally proposed by Governor Robertson. 
^ 
/ 
Experience during the past three years has shown that con-
flicts of this type have not materialized. 
Only one or two minor 
questions have come up during that period and they were quickly 
resolved to the satisfaction of the Examinations people. 
In light 
of this experience, it is proposed that the Examinations Section 
report to the Associate Director. Th'is would free the time of the 
Division head for other important matters and would improve the 
degree of coordination between the various Sections within the 
Division. As a safeguard, it would be understood that any matter 
involving the elimination or alteration of a security control in 
the interest of efficiency would be brought to the attention of 
the Division head for final disposition. 
6. Payments Mechanism. 
This staff function was transferred 
in 1970 to the Board from the Kansas City Reserve Bank. .While it 
is nov; located within the Division's Special Studies Section for 
administrative purposes, it is under the direct official super-
vision of Assistant Secretary Gene Leonard. 
In view of the growing 
importance of this activity, as well as the need to clarify lines 
of responsibility and to provide for improved official supervision, 
it is proposed that a Payments Mechanism Section be established 
within the Division. Tnis group would be under the direction of 
an Assistant Director and would continue to receive many of its 
assignments from the System Steering Committee on Improving the 
Payments Mechanism. 
This proposal has been concurred in by 
Governor Mitchell, who is Chairman of that Committee. 

569 
To: Board of Governors 
-4-
/ 
' 
New Official Positions 
If adopted, the above recommendations would result in the 
creation of three new assistant directorships in the Division. 
I 
propose that the following be appointed to those positions (complete 
resumes attached): 
1. Walter Althausen, as Assistant Director in charge of 
Construction Planning. Mr. Althausen is currently Cnief of this 
Section and came with the Board in February 1970. He is a licensed 
architect and received his Asters Degree in that field from the 
University of California in 1951. Before coming to the Board,-he 
worked for a number of prominent architectural firms as well as for 
the Department of State. 
2. Donald Barnes, as Assistant Director in charge of the 
Payments Mechanism Section. Mr. Barnes received his Bachelor of 
Science degree in mathematics from Kansas State in 1962 and has 
completed 27 graduate semester hours in mathematics and business 
administration. 
Before going with the Kansas City Reserve Bank and 
later with the Board, Mr. Barnes worked for Booz-Allen Applied 
Research, Inc., and the United States Air Defense Command. 
3. Assistant Director in charge of Planning and Systems 
Development. 
I will return to the Board at a later time after a 
suitable candidate for this position has been found. 
ffificial ReDlacement 
In addition, I recommend that Mr. Harry Guinter be appointed 
as Assistant Director in charge of the Operations and Management Group 
to fill the vacancy left by Mr. Mcintosh. 
Before coming with the 
Board in 1969 as a Senior Operations Analyst, Mr. Guinter had exten-
sive experience in the fields of systems and management appraisal as 
an Associate of Booz-Allen & Hamilton, Inc. , and other consulting 
firms. 
-
^awNonofficial Positi ons 
If accepted, the proposals in this memorandum would result 
l n an increase of 17 in the Division's nonofficial positions. Aside 
from three new secretaries for the new officers, the new positions 
would be distributed as follows: five in the Planning and Systems 
development Section; one in Discount Operations; two in Cash and 
Accounting; three in Cost and Budget Analysis; and three in the 
Evaluation Section. 

I. 
' i '• 
To: Board of Governors 
-5-
570 
Budget Implications 
» 
' 7 ' 
It is estimated that the proposed staff additions will 
result in a budget overrun of approximately $167,000 in 1971. This 
is based on the assumption that there will be a lag of approximately 
50 per cent in filling the new positions. 
The implications of the 
proposal for a full budget year would be approximately $333,000. 
Attachments 
