MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 11, 1969 
, iv. • : ;;c • 
' : b? , 
• . 
' ' ; 
"> v.. .• ; 

— 
•">0 t • 
^iVv'lj 
It U'/G;i 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, July 11, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
- • 
. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and StatisticsJL/ 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance!./ 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' Offices 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
Governor Daane then reported (with staff attendance limited) 
0 n the most recent monthly meeting of the Bank for International Settlements 
in Basle. 
With reference to the Board's outstanding proposal to impose 
a marginal reserve requirement against Euro-dollar borrowings by U.S. 
hanks, Governor Daane related that participants in the Basle meeting 
had requested him to convey to the Board the hope that the Board would 
reconsider the "freeze" provisions of the proposal. 
•i./ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 
.•vAs-.r 

7/11/69 
-2-
All members of the research divisions who had been present 
except Messrs. Axilrod and Wernick of the Division of Research and 
Statistics and Mr. Hersey of the Division of International Finance 
withdrew at this point. Messrs. Broida and Morgan also withdrew and 
the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy and Lawrence of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Cloth and Maguire of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
consolidation of Franklin National Bank, Mineola, New York, with 
Franklin Bank of New York (National Association), also of Mineola, 
'\t.y 
...... w : 
( 
;., 
. . 
... 
, , 
w*s approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The 
conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed consolidation 
(which was merely a transaction to facilitate the acquisition of 
Franklin National Bank by Franklin New York Corporation, a newly-formed 
holding company) would have no adverse competitive effects. 
tJjif 
. 
: 
, , 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
I'h;*,- .J' rf,, 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Millville National Bank 
CU,;;.:. 
. 
. . . . 
. 
• 
and Trust Company, Millville, New Jersey, into First Camden National 

7/11/69 
-3-
Bank and Trust Company, Camden, New Jersey, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition existing between 
The Millville National Bank and Trust Company and First 
Camden National Bank and Trust Company although there is 
some potential for increased competition between them. The 
overall competitive effect of the proposed transaction would 
be slightly adverse. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Fremont Bank, 
Fremont, California, with Bank of Fremont, Fremont, California, was 
^proved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion 
stated that consummation of the proposed merger (which was merely a 
transaction to facilitate the acquisition of Bank of Fremont by 
General Fremont, Inc., a newly-formed holding company) would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
First Virginia Bank. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of First Virginia Bank of the Southwest, Christiansburg, Virginia, 
to merge with Bank of New River Valley, Radford, Virginia, and authorized 
the issuance of an order and statement reflecting that decision. Copies 
a r e attached under Item No. 1. 
Roachdale Bank. The Board authorized the issuance of an order 
and statement reflecting approval on June 16, 1969, of the application 
°f Roachdale Bank and Trust Company, Roachdale, Indiana, to merge with 
-,• 
S !\U. in f •/U.i.ir; 
V ? . ; '
s 
;;•*'• Vs. 
The State Bank of Russellville, Russellville, Indiana. Copies are 
. > * C 1 
V 
UV 
.i,.". > 
>..•: • tTr; 1 V M . 
attached under Item No. 2. 

O O t . 7
1 
7/11/69 
-4-
Question under Regulation T. In a memorandum of July 1, 1969, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed the question whether 
activities by a Philadelphia brokerage house designed to assist in 
distribution of the stock of a proposed new black community bank would 
be permissible under section 7(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 and section 220.7(a) of Regulation T, Credit by Brokers, Dealers, 
and Members of National Securities Exchanges. The staff recommended 
advising counsel for the brokerage house that the proposed activities 
were not considered inconsistent with the aforementioned provisions of 
the statute and regulation. 
While members of the Board expressed agreement with the 
staff that this was not the type of situation where enforcement procedures 
would be indicated, a member pointed out that the activities under 
consideration might be held to be inconsistent with the letter of the 
law. Accordingly, after some discussion with regard to the manner in 
which the advice from the Board might most appropriately be phrased, 
Ur*animous approval was given to the sending of a letter in the form 
attached as Item No. 3. 
Survey of capital spending plans. In a memorandum dated 
J u l y 10, 1969, Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, Division 
°f Research and Statistics, discussed developments with respect to the 
survey of capital spending plans of large firms that the Federal Reserve 
Banks had been asked to undertake by a source within the Administration. 

2257 
7/11/69 
-5-
As the result of a pre-test in the Fourth District, the survey had 
been redesigned somewhat and its coverage had been modified. It was 
recommended that the Reserve Bank Presidents be informed by wire of 
the survey, including the proposed questionnaire, and that a meeting 
with the Presidents be held next Tuesday afternoon to discuss survey 
procedures. At that time there would be available a list of companies 
/ 
to be contacted in each District, and it was hoped that the results of 
the survey could be made available to the Administration by the end of 
this month. 
After discussion, Mr. Partee's recommendations were approved 
unanimously. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. 
Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas on July 10, 1969, of the rates on 
discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
The Board held over for consideration later the action to 
ke taken with respect to the establishment by the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City on July 10, 1969, subject to the 

7/11/69 
-6-
2258 
approval of the Board of Governors, of a rate of 7 per cent (rather 
than the existing 6 per cent) on discounts and advances to member 
banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

22S& 
Item No. 1 
7/11/69 
Wi f i I S $ I 
1 
V? 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
the Matter of the Application of 
plRST VIRGINIA BANK OF THE SOUTHWEST 
for approval of merger with
 
1 
B ank of New River Valley
 
1 
t 
ORDER APPROVING 1IERGER OF BANKS 
if 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
th 
e Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1328(c)), an application by First 
V i r8lnia Bank of the Southwest, Christiansburg, Virginia, a State 
Member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval 
0 f the merger of that tank with Bank of New River Valley, Radford, 
*
r8inia, under the charter and name of the former. As an incident to 
the 
m e r g e r , the four offices of Bank of New River Valley would become 
at*ches of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form 
aPproved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act, 
Upon consideration of all relevant: material in the light of 
factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Co 
ltlPtr oll e r of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

ft- 
2260 
• 
- 2 -
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 11th day of July, 1969. 
.
.
. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman tfartin and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
ft 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY FIRST VIRGINIA BANK OF THE SOUTHWEST 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
BANK OF NEW RIVER VALLEY 
STATEMENT 
First Virginia Bank of the Southwest, Christiansburg, 
Virginia ("Southwest Bank"), with tatal deposits of $4 million, has 
applied, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U . S X . 1828(c)), for the 
Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank with Bank of New 
River Valley, Radford, Virginia ("Valley Bank"), which has deposits of 
1/ 
$8 million. 
The banks would merge under the charter and name of 
Southwest Bank, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. As 
an incident to the merger, the four offices of Valley Bank would become 
branches of Southwest Bank, increasing the number of its offices to seven. 
The two banks are subsidiaries of First Virginia Bankshares 
Corporation, Arlington, Virginia ("First Virginia"), a registered bank 
holding company. The Board, pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, by orders of April 12, 1965 and May 9, 
1967, approved, respectively, the acquisition by First Virginia of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Valley Bank (then known as Peoples 
Bank of Radford) and of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Southwest Bank (then known as Cambria Bank, Incorporated). 1965 
i/ Figures are as of December 31, 1968. 

22H2 
'I. 
-2-
Federal Reserve Bulletin 536; 1967 Federal Reserve Bulletin 776. The 
purpose of the proposed merger, according to the application, is to 
achieve improvements in the economies of operation and administration. 
Statutory considerations, - The merger of Southwest Bank and 
Valley Bank -- both subsidiaries of a registered bank holding company 
acquired pursuant to prior Board approval — would have no adverse 
e£fect on banking competition. The financial and managerial resources 
and prospects of each bank are satisfactory, as they would be with 
respect to the resulting bank. The banking needs of the communities 
served by Southwest Bank and Valley Bank are being met satisfactorily 
and without undue inconvenience, as they would be following the 
conversion of the offices of Valley Bank into branches of Southwest 
Bank. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
July 11, 1969. 

2263 
Item No. 2 
7/11/69 
•} 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
ROACHDALE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
 
1 
for approval of merger with
 
1 
The State Bank of Russellville
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Roachdale 
Bank and Trust company, Roachdale, Indiana, a State member bank of 
the Federal Reserve System for the Board's prior approval of the 
merger of that bank and The State Bank of Russellville, Russellville, 
Indiana, under the charter of the former, and title of Tri-County 
Bank & Trust Company. As an incident to the merger, the office of 
The State Bank of Russellville uould become a branch of the resulting 
bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, 
has been published pursuant to said Act. 

-2-
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
of the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by 
the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 11th day of July, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor 
Mitchell. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY ROACHDALE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE STATE BANK OF RUSSELLVILLE 
STATEMENT 
Roachdale Bank and Trust Company, Roachdale, Indiana 
("Roachdale Bank"), v?ith total deposits of $7 million, has applied, 
pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1823(c)), for the Board's 
prior approval of the merger of that bank with The State Bank of 
Russellville, Russellville, Indiana ("State Bank"), which has deposits 
of $1.6 million.1/ 
The banks would merge under the charter of Roachdale 
Bank, a member of the Federal Reserve System, and under the name, Tri-
County Bank & Trust Company. As an incident to the merger, the 
office of State Bank would become a branch of Roachdale Bank, increas-
ing the number of its offices to throe. 
Competition. - Both banks are in Putnam County in west 
central Indiana, a predominantly agricultural area, Roachdale Bank 
operates its head office in Roachdale (population 1,000) and a branch 
1/ 
Figures are as of December 31, 1968. 

-2-
at Bainbridge, six miles south of Roachdale. The sole office of State 
Bank is in Russellville (population 400) 10 miles xjest of Roachdale. 
There are no banking offices in the intervening area and each bank 
derives a small portion of its business from the area served by the 
other. 
Roachdale Bank also has applied to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation for approval to acquire the assets and assume the 
liabilities of Russellville Bank (deposits $1.7 million), a private 
bank without deposit insurance and the only other bank in Russellville. 
Roachdale Bank seeks to acquire both of the Russellville banks because 
State law prohibits the establishment of a branch in a community 
where another bank is headquartered. 
Els ton Bank & Trust Company, Crawfordsville (deposits $29 
million), operates a branch at IJaveland, seven miles west of Russellville, 
and The First National Bank and Trust Company of Crawfordsville (de-
posits $20 million) has a branch in Ladoga, five miles north of 
Roachdale. A bank with deposits of $2 million is located 13 miles 
west of Russellville and a similar-sized bank is 10 miles east of 
Roachdale; in addition, there are two banks in Greencastle, 20 miles 
south of Roachdale, which have deposits of $15 million and $20 million, 
respectively. 

2267 
-2-
There is only a small amount of competition betueen 
Roachdale Bank and State Bank. However, because of the provisions of 
State law restricting branch banking, the merger of these two banks 
cannot be consummated unless Roachdale Bank obtains authority to 
acquire Rus sellville Bank, the only other bank in the community. Thus, 
the transaction would have an adverse effect on competition. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - State 
Bank is slightly less than adequately capitalized and has a large 
volume of criticized loans; in addition, the bank has had three 
chief executive officers in the past eight years, and its prospects are 
uncertain. The banking factors with respect to Roachdale Bank are 
satisfactory, as they would be following the proposed merger. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The replacement 
of State Bank by an office of Roachdale Bank would make a wider range 
of banking services more conveniently available to the Russellville 
community. As already indicated, the proposed merger cannot take 
place unless Roachdale Bank receives approval of the Federal Deposit 
In surance Corporation to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities 
of Russellville Bank, a private bank without deposit insurance and 
the only other bank in Russellville. 

sgwga -,.,.... 
—^ 
— 
, r 
- - - -, — 
... 
—
2268 
>l 
-ill 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board the 
proposed transaction would have an adverse effect on competition; 
however, that adverse effect would be outweighed by the resolution 
of the problems of State Bank and by the benefit to the banking 
convenience and needs of the Russellville community. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved, 
July 11, 1969. 
SI 
• 
.V. 
*tv. 
• !; 
i P 
j ¥' 
• m 
Ui-
. 
If 
v-j^i
 : " 
I; 
M M 
• 
i-

> / > \ 
Item No. 3 
BDARD OF G D V E R N • RS 
7/11/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1969. 
Henry S . Killes, Jr., Esq., 
Drinker Biddle & Reath, 
1100 Philadelphia National 
Bank Building, 
Broad and Chestnut Streets, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19107 
Dear Mr. Hilles: 
This refers to your letter of April 24, 1969, and attachments, 
to the Board of Governors, in connection with the question whether sec-
tion 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("the Act") and § 220.7(a) 
of the Board's Regulation T , "Credit by Brokers and Dealers," would forbid 
the firm of Drexel Harriman Ripley, Incorporated ("Drexel"), an investment 
hanking firm which is a broker subject to the regulation, to engage in 
c ertain described activities in connection with the proposed establishment 
°f a new bank, "The Mantua Bank," to be located in, and operated by members 
°f, the black community of West Philadelphia. 
This area is represented by Pennsylvania State Senator Freeman P . 
Hankins. Senator Hankins, who is a member of the Urban Coalition of 
*niladelph 
ia, formed in early 1968, has been concerned about unrest in 
the area which might be directed against the predominantly white shopkeepers, 
embers of the black community have been gradually buying out many stores. 
u t have found it difficult to obtain credit from banks for necessary funds 
^ith which to acquire businesses or to obtain working capital. 
It is hoped 
that establishment of The Mantua Bank will contribute to a solution of this 
Problem. 
*t was generally agreed by persons interested in establishing 
the new bank that at least 80 per cent, and preferably all of the bank's 
stock should be sold to black persons. Drexel was approached for assist-
ance, and is keenly interested in facilitating the successful execution 
°f the project. This assistance will be given on a voluntary basis, and 
although it will involve the use of facilities and time of Drexel which 
Would otherwise be devoted to profit-making activities, it is represented 
that the firm will receive no compensation, direct or indirect, from any 
Source in connection with the proposed transaction. 

Henry S . Hilles, Jr., Esq. 
- 
2 
-
fjs* i U 
The assistance to be rendered by Drexel will include participating 
in the drafting of an offering circular and otherwise giving general assist-
ance and advice, in contacting some of the leading banks in the Philadelphia 
area in an etfort to persuade them to lend money on an unsecured basis to 
black persons who would agree to purchase stock of the bank, and possibly 
contacting certain educational, financial and.industrial organizations 
about the possibility of their purchasing a sufficient portion of the 
stock of the bank not so subscribed in order that a minimum capitaliza-
tion of $800,000 can be achieved. These organizations would hold the 
stock until members of the community and other black persons were in-
terested in buying some or all of it from them. 
As your letter points out, section 7(c) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 provides in pertinent part that: 
"It shall be unlawful for any member of a national 
securities exchange or any broker or dealer, directly or 
indirectly, to extend or maintain credit or to arrange 
for the extension or maintenance of credit to or for any 
customer 
(2) without collateral or on any collateral other 
than securities, except in accordance with such rules 
and regulations as the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System may prescribe . . . 
Section 7(c)(2)(b) authorizes the Board, by regulation 
"to permit the extension or maintenance of credit 
in cases where the extension or maintenance of credit 
is not for the purpose of . . . evading or circumventing 
the provisions of paragraph (1) of this section." 
Regulation T does not permit brokers, such as Drexel, to make 
loans to customers without collateral. Section 220.7(a) of the regulation 
further provides, with an exception that is not relevant here, that a broker 
" . . . may arrange for the extension or maintenance 
of credit to or for any customer of such creditor by any 
person upon the same terms and conditions as those upon 
which the creditor, under the provisions of this part, 
may himself extend or maintain such credit to such 
customer, but only upon such terms and conditions . . . 
Accordingly, Drexel may not "arrange for the extension" of an unsecured 
loan by a bank to "or for a customer of Drexel. 

• • • 
Henry S. Hilles, Jr., Esq. 
- 3 - 
J J ' 3 7 1 
It could be held that The Mantua Bank was a customer of Drexel, 
and that the firm would be arranging for credit for the benefit of the 
bank. In addition, it may be that some black persons who will purchase 
stock in the bank would be customers of Drexel. 
In view of all the circumstances described above, however, and 
in the light of the policy expressed in section 7(a) and section 7(c)(2)(B) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Board would not deem it appro-
priate to recommend that any action be taken under the Act in connection 
with the described activities of Drexel. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
