MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Federal Advisory Council 
September 15, 1972 

2491 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
vith the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room of the 
Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D.C., at 10:30 a.m. on Friday, 
September 15, 1972. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. English, Rockefeller, Fangboner, 
Bassett, Freeman, Morey, Lind, Miller, 
Bond, and Clausen, Members of the 
Federal Advisory Council from the 
First, Second, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, 
Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, and 
Twelfth Federal Reserve Districts, 
respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of 
the Council 
Also present were Mr. William B. Eagleson, Jr., President, 
Gi^ard Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, representing the Third Federal 
Reserve District in lieu of Mr. G. Morris Dorrance, Jr.; and Mr. John F. 
^atlington, Jr., President, Wachovia Bank & Trust Company N.A., Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, representing the Fifth Federal Reserve District 
lieu of Mr. Joseph W. Barr. 
Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2492 
-2-
Economic conditions and prospects. 
How does the Council appraise the outlook for 
general economic activity and resource use 
over the fall and winter months? 
In particular, 
how do Council members assess the prospects for 
business spending on plant and equipment and for 
inventory investment? 
The Council believes that general economic activity over the 
fall and winter months will rise, continuing a trend that has been under 
way for the past year. 
Despite this expansion, however, the productive 
Opacity of the nation will not be fully utilized and there will remain 
some unused resources in the form of idle plant and equipment and unem-
Pl oyed labor. 
The gap, however, between output and capacity will have 
narrowed considerably. 
Business spending on plant and equipment and inventories is 
likely to strengthen further in the months ahead. 
Sales have outpaced 
inventory growth so that up until recently inventory-sales ratios have 
continued to edge down. 
The expectation of a further rise in sales, together with the 
Persistent rise in new orders, strengthens the likelihood of a rise in 
°utlays for inventories. 
This increase in demand and sales also will 
Provide support for a step-up in outlays for plant and equipment. 
The 
need to upgrade facilities in terms of both efficiency and ecological 
•Requirements are additional factors tending to boost capital outlays. 
There was no further discussion of this topic. 
B. 
How do members of the Council view the outlook 
for prices and wages over the balance of this 
year and in 1973? 
What impressions are Council 
members getting from their various contacts 
regarding the effectiveness of the wage/price 
control program and what suggestions do the 
members have for useful changes in the program? 
The rise in consumer prices this year--about 3 per cent--
reflects considerable improvement over the 6 per cent rise, for example, 
that prevailed in 1970. 
Despite the poor performance in recent months, prices and 
wages are expected to resume a more favorable trend through the end of 
9/15/72 
Item 1. 
A. 

2493 
9/15/72 
-3-
1972. 
Greater pressures on wages and prices are likely to emerge in 
1973. However, continuing unused capacity and unemployed labor will 
moderate the upward pressures on wages and prices. 
There are wide differences of opinion as to the effectiveness 
°f the wage-price control program. 
In view of the easing of the upward 
Pressure on consumer prices and providing there is clear evidence that 
we are moving toward a balanced Federal budget, the control program 
might be relaxed, possibly by excluding more smaller companies from 
the controls. 
The Council also suggests that dividends be permitted to 
increase at the same rate as wages. 
Dividends are an important source 
°f income to large sectors of society. Aggregate increases in dividends 
a*"e well below the 4 per cent ceiling as many firms have maintained or 
reduced their dividends. 
The ultimate objective should be to dismantle controls 
completely. 
Discussion indicated a feeling on the part of the Council that 
the longer controls remained in effect, the greater the erosion in their 
effectivenss would be; there were already some sectors, such as certain 
food prices, where it seemed that ground was being lost. 
Governor Robertson observed that the Council conditioned 
Possible relaxation of controls on evidence that a balanced Federal 
budget was in sight, and he inquired whether it was the view of the 
Council that such a development was in the making. 
Responses indicated 
that although the magnitude of the current Federal deficit would make a 
balanced budget difficult to achieve, there was some room for hope, 
Specially if the Congress enacted a ceiling on Federal expenditures. 
prospects for such a ceiling had brightened in recent weeks, with a 
5 0 per cent chance of success now estimated. 
The Council members 

2494 
9/15/72 
-4-
considered the establishment of such a ceiling of great importance, and 
had agreed to use their best efforts in talks with businessmen and others 
to develop grass-roots support for action by the Congress. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the Council's statement spoke 
both of the likelihood of greater pressure on wages and prices in 1973 
and of a current easing of upward pressure on consumer prices. 
The 
latest figures published had indicated that wholesale prices were moving 
upward at an accelerated rate. 
He inquired how, with further relaxation 
of controls advocated, the Government should cope with renewed pressure 
°n prices in 1973. 
Ensuing comments brought out that the Council had regarded the 
upward movement of wholesale prices in July and August, largely felt in 
agricultural products and processed foods, as a departure from the 
Principal trend and not likely to continue. 
Therefore, the coming 
months should show a little better performance of prices. 
Next year, 
however, there were a number of important labor contracts to be renewed, 
which could exert upward pressure on prices despite the offsetting 
influence of unused labor and manufacturing facilities. 
On the other 
hand, it could happen that the upward pressures would not be so great 
as feared; some union leaders had expressed the view that membership 
demands for wage increases were less strong than they had been. 
The Council explained that its suggestion that dividends be 
Permitted to increase at the same rate as wages was based on reasons 

2495 
9/15/72 
-5-
°f equity. 
Data gathered by the bank with which one member was 
associated indicated that on an average, dividends had risen only about 
1 per cent. 
Unless those corporations that were able and willing to 
increase their dividends by more than 4 per cent were allowed to do so, 
the average increase would remain substantially below the average rise 
occurring in wages. 
An investor would be unlikely to have in his port-
folio only the stocks with the highest dividend increases, and balancing 
those with the higher increases against those with little or no increase, 
his average increase of dividend income would remain at or below 4 per 
cent. 
it did not seem equitable that a person dependent upon dividend 
income should be subject to a limitation that in practical effect was 
wore severe than the limit placed on wage increases. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether any of the Council members 
thought wage controls or price controls should be made more restrictive. 
After a negative view was generally expressed, Mr. Freeman commented 
that an affirmative response might have been forthcoming if it were not 
for the fact that a strengthening of controls would not be politically 
feasible. 
It was widely believed that wage limitations had been 
relatively severe at the beginning, while prices continued to rise 
^pidly. 
If price increases moderated, it would be easier politically 
to restrict wage increases further, although recognition would have to 
be g i v e n 
t o t h e need for maintaining the purchasing power of labor. 

2496 
9/15/72 
-6-
President Clausen spoke of the desirability from an economic 
standpoint of limiting wage increases to increases in productivity. 
However, that might not be possible of accomplishment on practical 
and political grounds. 
Mr. Rockefeller commented that the Council's view against 
strengthening wage and price controls did not mean that the Council 
did not regard inflation as the most serious threat to the economy. 
Rather, it reflected a conviction that wage and price controls were 
not a permanent answer for dealing with the problem in our type of 
economy. 
The controls were introduced allegedly as a temporary measure, 
and the Council believed that unless they were relaxed fairly promptly, 
either it would be necessary to institute a much more elaborate, cum-
bersome, and costly system of controls, or the present arrangements 
Would produce increasing distortions and dislocations that would be 
dangerous to the economy. 
Therefore, the Council thought that while 
it was not feasible to remove the controls at the moment, it would be 
desirable to take some tentative steps, such as exempting a larger 
number of small companies, that would point to an intention of even-
tually dismantling the machinery. 
The controls on smaller companies 
Probably were not very effective in any event and a diminution of scope 
also would reduce necessary paperwork and administrative organization. 
Responses to a question by Governor Robertson regarding 
expectations of inflation indicated a view that unless the unfortunate 

2497 
9/15/72 
-7-
course of wholesale prices in July and August reflected a new and adverse 
trend, there should be some further dampening of inflation within the 
next few months. 
However, President Clausen noted that the most serious 
source of inflationary pressures, contributing to the danger that con-
trols would be eroded, was fiscal policy. 
The most helpful step that 
could be taken to counteract inflation and inflationary expectations 
w°uld be to get the Federal Government budget into better balance. 
There was some pessimism about the likelihood of a successful campaign 
against inflation; many corporations were undertaking their long-term 
financing today in the expectation that interest costs would rise. 
Freeman noted that the Council's anticipation of a better situation 
coming months was confined to short-term prospects. 
The fact that 
long-term rates had remained relatively high indicated that there was 
a great deal of expectation of renewed inflation in the future. 
C. 
What is the Council's judgment with regard to 
the outlook for construction activity in various 
parts of the country over the balance of this 
year and in 1973? 
Is there evidence of over-
building of new office buildings, apartment 
houses or individual family dwellings in some 
areas? 
What is the outlook for the availability 
and cost of mortgage money for builders and for 
individual home buyers? 
The Council believes that construction activity will continue 
a t high levels through most of 1973, but that there will be divergent 
trends between Districts and among the various sectors of the industry. 
R e sidential construction activity should edge downward as much of the 
Pent- Up demand for housing has been satisfied. 

2438 
9/15/72 
-8-
Plant construction, however, should move upward in line with 
the general increase in business investment, but office building con-
struction in many areas is expected to decline. 
The continued substantial inflow of funds into savings and 
thrift institutions and real estate investment trusts indicates that 
mortgage money for builders and individual home buyers will continue 
to be available at only moderately rising costs. 
Reports by individual members of the Council reflected some 
differences in the pace of construction activity around the country. 
There was strong demand for residential construction in Texas, but some 
soft spots in office building were reported in Dallas and Houston where 
there had been substantial overbuilding of such structures. 
A surge in 
demand for condominiums and town houses was offsetting a small decline 
in construction of single-family structures. 
The Southeast had experi-
enced a continued strong demand, well balanced among homes, apartment 
buildings, and office construction. 
The greatest construction strength 
was in Florida, largely because of Disney World near Orlando and con-
tinuing immigration into the State. 
Jacksonville, however, was somewhat 
in over-supply. 
In the Tenth District there was continued strong demand 
single-family residences, although apartment houses and office 
buildings were overbuilt. 
A surplus of office space was expected to 
Prevai1 for about the next two years in the New York, Chicago, and 
S t . Louis areas and in California. 
President Clausen noted that in California there had been a 
rather substantial drop in the average cost of homes, with mobile homes 

2139 
9/15/72 
-9-
n°t included in the data. 
The reduction reflected increased use of 
cluster systems and town houses. 
One member of the Board observed that 
that was the reverse of the price trend in the national statistics. 
Mr. Freeman commented that the problem of price was a determin-
ing factor in the housing industry. 
The desire and need for housing 
V a s almost limitless, but demand was dictated by price ranges that 
People could afford. 
Governor Robertson spoke of reports that vacancy rates were 
loving up and residential starts were diminishing. 
In that situation, 
and with a good inflow of available funds, he inquired why the Council 
expected rising mortgage rates. 
Responses indicated that only a 
moderate rise was anticipated. 
It was noted that in many parts of the 
country an individual could borrow money for a term of 25 to 30 years 
a t a more favorable rate than was available to a large corporation. 
It 
was observed that the mortgage rate had to be viewed in the context of 
o ther long-term rates, which were expected to respond somewhat in 
Sympathy with the prospective rise in short-term rates, although not 
i n the same magnitude, as economic activity continued to gather momentum. 
Unless there was a substantial change in inflationary expectations, it 
W a s difficult to see any likelihood that long-term rates would decline. 
Item 2. 
Financial developments. 
A. 
How do Council members appraise the current 
and prospective demand for business and other 
types of loans? 
Are there significant changes 

2500 
9/15/72 
-10-
occurring, or in prospect, with respect to 
over-all bank lending policy? 
The current demand for business loans varies considerably 
over the country with some Districts reporting little or no increase 
while others have experienced exceptionally strong demand. 
The loan 
demands of business should increase in the months ahead because of the 
continuing rise in inventories and fixed business investment. 
Real estate and consumer type loans should also continue to 
rise in the near future because of the high level of construction and 
consumer spending. 
Some changes are occurring in loan terms, which might be 
regarded as changes in policy. 
A number of banks have begun to offer 
a limited amount of cap loans (loans with a ceiling on the average 
effective cost of the loan funds), loans with a fixed interest rate, 
longer periods of amortization stretching to seven and even ten years, 
and term loans with either delayed or no amortization. 
Comments by members of the Council indicated that business loan 
demand was strongest in the Southeast and Southwest and the middle part 
°f the country. 
In the Seventh District loan demand was substantial, 
especially in the commercial and industrial, real estate, term, and 
credit card categories. 
In the Eleventh District the rural areas had 
not experienced as much demand as the larger cities, and therefore were 
Supplying Federal funds to enable city banks to meet the demands they 
W e r e experiencing. 
Commercial, industrial, and real estate loans were 
a t high levels in the Eighth District, with commitments increasing, 
demands were strong in the Ninth District, and were expected to increas 
i n the coming months. 
The extremely high loan demand in the Tenth 
Di-strict was linked to high prices for livestock and other agricultural 
Products. 

2501 
9/15/72 
-11-
The growth of both commercial and industrial and consumer loans 
been modest in the Fourth District. 
President Clausen reported 
relatively small growth in industrial and commercial loans in the West, 
although demand for real estate and consumer loans was strong. 
The 
Psychological atmosphere had improved markedly with the Lockheed loan 
guarantee. 
Governor Brimmer observed that there seemed to be stronger loan 
growth outside New York and Chicago than had been typical in the past, 
and he inquired whether a trend might be under way in which regional 
banks were better able to cope with credit demands from large corpora-
tions in their areas, with banks that served a national market having a 
diminished share. 
Mr. Freeman commented that the financial headquarters of the 
great national corporations were typically in New York, and therefore 
U was reasonable to expect that the greater portion of New York bank 
loans would be to such corporations. 
However, large corporations also 
had access to the bond and commercial paper markets, which many of them 
had substituted for bank loans. 
He cited a number of situations in 
other cities that seemed to support a view that the choice between money 
center or regional banks was largely influenced by the particular lines 
o f industrial activity in a given city, rather than to any increased 
ability of regional banks to accommodate their local corporations. 

2502 
9/15/72 
-12-
Mr. Rockefeller expressed agreement with Mr. Freeman, commenting 
that historically money center banks had been in a sense lenders of 
last resort. 
Therefore, the impact of either increases or declines in 
loan demand tended to be felt initially outside the money centers. 
Thus 
it was not surprising that in recent months, despite the reports of 
strong loan demand elsewhere, the average of commercial loans had 
declined somewhat in New York City, although the decline had been offset 
to some extent by increases in mortgage and consumer loans, and especially 
day loans to the money market. 
Mr. Watlington expressed the view that there had been some trend 
toward greater use of regional banks and that lines of credit at such 
banks were becoming more significant. 
He believed that to an increasing 
extent money center banks were taking advantage of their correspondent 
banking relationships with regional banks by offering the latter partic-
ipations in their loans to national corporations, with the money center 
banks keeping less of the package than they formerly did. 
He noted also 
that national corporations had plants dispersed around the country, and 
When a regional bank lent to such a corporation it considered that it 
Was lending to a local customer. 
Mr. Eagleson commented that the regional loan statistics might 
be somewhat misleading because of the participations sought by non-money 
center banks in order to fill the short-fall from locally generated loans. 
The place where a loan showed on the books did not necessarily indicate 
its origin. 

2503 
9/15/72 
-13-
President Clausen observed that, with some major metropolitan 
area exceptions, the clients of regional banks were less likely to seek 
recourse to the bond and commercial paper markets and therefore were 
relying relatively more on bank loans. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
B. 
Have bank loan commitments expanded to any 
marked extent in recent months? 
Are there 
any particular industries or any specific 
purposes, for which commitment requests 
appear to have been especially buoyant? 
Do Council members believe that banks gen-
erally are making adequate preparations to 
meet future loan takedowns? 
Bank loan commitments have expanded in recent months at widely 
varying rates in different Districts and generally more rapidly than 
loans. 
Requests for loan commitments do not appear to be concentrated 
in any specific industry with the possible exception of public utilities, 
which have been making increasing use of term loans to help finance their 
C apital investment programs. 
The Council members believe that banks generally are making 
adequate preparations to meet future loan takedowns, providing they 
c°ntinue to have access to the money markets and the Federal Reserve 
^unctions in its important role as the lender of last resort. 
Comments by Council members indicated some underlying apprehen-
sion regarding the possibility of a recurrence of the credit stringencies 
in 1966 and again in 1969-70 when ceiling rates of interest under Regula-
tion Q below money market rates prevented banks from rolling over their 
certificates of deposit. 
If there should be a similar drying up of 
sources of funds in the future and the Fed was unwilling to come to the 
^scue, banks would have real problems. 
The desire to insure access to 

2 5 0 4 
9/15/72 
-14-
the market had prompted the Council to reiterate many times its 
recommendation that Regulation Q ceilings be removed. 
In response to questions whether there was any limit to expansion 
of commitments and what preparations were being made to meet them, members 
°f the Council indicated that a limit was provided by the rule of prudence, 
taking into account the type of institution and the market in which it 
operated. 
It should not be surprising that commitments were increasing 
when it was remembered that they had fallen off during the period when 
business was sluggish. 
Utilization of commitments among the institutions 
With which Council members were associated ranged from 26 per cent to 50 
Per cent, which again reflected differences among types of institutions and 
the kinds of potential borrowers who were obtaining commitments. 
Ability 
to meet the commitments depended, as implied in earlier comments, upon 
access to the money market. 
If all commitments were tapped at once, 
there was no doubt that the strain would be too great, and in the event 
°f such a development the banks would expect Federal Reserve credit to 
b e available. 
The Council members had agreed to prepare papers on bank 
liquidity and the degree of bank dependence on the Federal Reserve in 
Periods of strong credit restraint looking toward a discussion of that 
Subject in depth with the Board at the next meeting. 
Mr. Freeman commented that banks generally were increasing their 
loans and commitments and becoming less liquid every day. 
Although many 
°f their loans were long term, some banks were relying to a considerable 

2505 
9/15/72 
-15-
extent on short-term funds such as Federal funds and 30-60 day CD's. 
If anything interfered with their ability to get those funds, there 
would be serious trouble. 
There was not sufficient opportunity to get 
anywhere near the necessary amount in long-term money. 
He wanted the 
Board to know that many banks were operating in this way in absolute 
confidence that if and when customary sources of funds dried up, the 
^ed would provide liquidity, although banks would expect that the credit 
v°uld be extended at a cost and with a requirement that commitments not 
expanded further until the situation was again under control. 
In 
response to a comment by Governor Daane that his remarks implied that 
banks were rushing pell-mell into commitments with no great concern for 
liquidity, Mr. Freeman said that in a sense banks were saying that they 
exPected the Federal Reserve to tell them when to slow down. 
Other members of the Council indicated that they regarded the 
rate Qf expansion in commitments as the responsibility of management, 
with proper regard for the prospects of obtaining funds from the usual 
sources and for the likely use of such funds based on past lending 
experience. 
This did not mean that commitments would be piled up indis-
criminately and indeed many banks were holding back on making them. 
C. 
Have Council members observed any deterioration 
of credit standards or significant liberalization 
of lending terms by various types of institutional 
lenders this year? 
The Council members observe that in recent months lending 
rms have been liberalized, as evidenced by the lengthening of the 

2506 
9/15/72 
-16-
maturities of term loans, the deferral or elimination of amortization, 
a nd the use of fixed interest rates, or of interest rate caps. 
In 
some instances these changes in terms also have resulted in the dete-
rioration of credit standards. 
Discussion brought out that competition was the force behind 
the types of loan arrangements in question. 
The commercial paper and 
long-term bond markets had diverted a substantial amount of what in the 
Past had been considered commercial banking business, and banks were 
using various new devices to remain viable competitors. 
Chairman Burns inquired whether it might be possible for the 
Council members to furnish information, to be treated confidentially 
by the Board, that would indicate to what extent term loans with limited 
amortization or no amortization were gaining in volume. 
The Council 
expressed willingness to provide such data, it being understood that 
Board's staff would formulate definitions in order that comparable 
information might be gathered and also that the task not impose too 
8reat a reporting burden. 
D. 
Does the Council anticipate major changes in 
prospective demands for credit from all sources? 
If so, are these changes likely to generate sig-
nificant pressures on interest rates in short-
or long-term credit markets? 
In view of the probable acceleration in the pace of business, 
a s well as the financing requirements of the public sector, growth in 
t h e demand for credit from all sources is expected. 
In these circum-
stances, interest rates, particularly in the short end of the market, 
a r e likely to rise. 
Because of the substantial improvement in corporate liquidity 
°ver the past several years, long-term borrowing by corporations is not 

2507 
9/15/72 
-17-
likeLy soon to reach the proportions of a year or so ago. 
Long-term 
rates are not expected to rise as much as those for shorter maturities. 
There was no further discussion of this topic. 
Item 3. 
Balance of payments. 
A. 
How does the Council view the prospects for the 
U.S. trade balance over the balance of the year 
and in 1973? 
From the members' contacts with 
businessmen, are there indications that the 
Smithsonian currency realignments are beginning 
to have an observable impact on U.S. exports? 
The U.S. trade balance over the remainder of the year and in 
l9?3 is likely to show some improvement notwithstanding the very bad 
experience so far this year. 
The realignment of exchange rates has been 
substantial and is certain to have a favorable impact on our balance of 
trade. 
There is increasing evidence that American products are becoming 
m°re competitive in world markets. 
U.S. textile manufacturers now 
believe they can compete in Japan and recently were in Tokyo seeking 
markets. 
Manufacturers of machine tools and heavy equipment also have 
reported that their prices now are increasingly competitive in world 
Markets. 
Accordingly, an improvement in the U.S. trade balance seems 
likely. 
These factors also give rise to the hope that the Smithsonian 
currency realignments will be sustained and have a favorable impact on 
^•S. exports. 
In reply to a question by Chairman Burns about the factual basis 
f°r expecting improvement in U.S. exports stemming from the Smithsonian 
Currency realignments, a number of members of the Council mentioned 
sPecific instances that pointed in that direction. 
Chairman Burns 
commented that some confirmation of such a trend, which had not yet 
s hown up in statistics, would be of great importance in the coming 
Uegotiations regarding international monetary machinery. 
He requested 
that members of the Council give the Board whatever information was 
r eadil y available, not statistics alone but also judgments based on 

2508 
9/15/72 
-18-
their conversations with customers. 
It was understood that the Board's 
staff would provide the Council with questions to illustrate the kind 
o f information that would be especially helpful. 
B. 
How do Council members appraise the outlook for 
capital inflows, including short- and long-term 
funds, over the months ahead? 
The outlook regarding short-term capital flows into the 
United States over the coming months remains somewhat uncertain. 
Con-
fidence in the exchange rate structure is still fragile. 
If it strengthen 
(and there is a possibility that it will, with an improvement in the U.S. 
^ a d e balance), some return flow of short-term funds to the United States 
would occur. 
Similarly, an improvement in the exchange rate outlook would 
stimulate the flow of long-term funds into the United States. 
Consider-
able potential exists for expansion of both portfolio and direct invest-
ment by foreigners, particularly with increasing profits of American 
business. 
Both have been relatively moderate in recent months, but the 
Probability of a pick-up within the next nine months is relatively good. 
Rising interest rates relative to those abroad would provide 
incentives for both long- and short-term inflows. 
In response to a question regarding current capital flows, 
President Clausen said there were indications of modest net inflows, 
interest rates in the U.S. had been rising, while rates elsewhere had 
been falling. 
There had been an increase in purchases of shares of U.S. 
corporations by foreigners. 
Governor Brimmer noted that there had been a substantial outflow 
°f short-term funds in the late spring and early summer, and he inquired 
A e t h e r there was any evidence that some of those funds had come back 
July and August. 
Council members were not able to verify that that 
Was the case. 

2509 
9/15/72 
-19-
C. 
Do Council members feel that the desire to lend 
abroad 
outside the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program today constitutes a signifi-
cant factor in the establishment and maintenance 
of foreign branches by American banks? 
Based on 
their own assumptions of VFCR ceiling pressure, 
do Council members expect American banks to make 
greater or lesser use of their foreign branches 
over the next 12 months for the purpose of lend-
ing and investing abroad? 
The desire to service the overseas needs of a bank's domestic 
customers continues to be one of the principal factors in the mainte-
nance of foreign branches by American banks. 
While the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program may have been a factor originally in 
Lhe establishment of branches abroad, it is doubtful that its removal 
Would significantly alter the aggressiveness of foreign branches of 
American banks to service the overseas needs of their customers. 
Because of the growing internationalization of much of American 
business, as well as the continuation of the VFCR program, American 
banks are likely to make greater use of their foreign branches in the 
next twelve months for the purpose of lending and investing abroad. 
There was no further discussion of this topic. 
D. 
Would the Council members, themselves, favor a 
modification of the VFCR program to permit banks 
to increase their lending and investing abroad 
above present VFCR ceilings to the extent that 
banks increased their private liabilities to 
foreigners? 
What would be the impact of such 
modifications on (a) total bank lending and 
investing abroad, and (b) the division of such 
activity between their head offices and their 
foreign branches? 
The members of the Council believe the VFCR program should 
b e Phased out. 
Some would do so immediately, while others believe it 
would be judicious to do so only as an improvement is realized in the 
° ver- a11 balance of payments. 
Even aside from this, all would favor 
tbe modification suggested in the VFCR program. 
Commercial banks where 
V F C R ceilings are a significant limitation on their lending abroad 
Maintain that the proposed modification of the program would not remove 
t h e inequitable treatment of these banks since most of them had rela-
tively low bases at the time the ceilings were established. 

ZolO 
9/15/72 
-20-
The modification of the VFCR program would offer encouragement 
to expand international business. 
Thus it would probably result in a 
somewhat larger total volume of bank lending and investing abroad (includ-
ing loans at head office and foreign branches), with a larger proportion 
of loans carried at head office. 
Mr. Freeman remarked that the statement that a larger total of 
bank lending and investing abroad might be expected could prove somewhat 
over-optimistic, because loan demand in England and in Western Europe 
had diminished. 
However, if a change was to be made in the program, he 
Would assume that the best time to make it would be when it would have 
little effect, and the present was such a time. 
Mr. Rockefeller expressed the view that because of the over-all 
balance of payments problem, this was not the time to eliminate the whole 
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program. 
However, just as in the 
case of wage and price controls, the VFCR should not stay in place 
indefinitely, and some modification that would indicate an intention 
of removal in time would seem desirable. 
Mr. Rockefeller referred also to the Board's recent request for 
comments on a proposal to reduce reserve requirements on certain foreign 
borrowings of U.S. banks, primarily Euro-dollars, from 20 per cent to 
10 per cent and to eliminate the reserve-free bases now available to 
banks subject to these requirements. 
Most banks had already reduced 
their bases substantially, but there were some, like his bank, that had 
maintained their bases, largely because it had been understood that the 
Federal Reserve considered it in the interests of the country that the 

2 b i i 
9/15/72 
-21-
bases be kept. 
With the prospect now that a reserve requirement would 
be applied to the base, it would seem equitable that a phase-out period 
of perhaps a year be allowed in the interests of equity, to give the 
banks that had maintained their bases a chance to recoup the cost of 
doing so. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the net cost of maintaining the 
bases was not easily determined since in some cases the bases affected 
the bank's Loan ceilings under the VFCR program. 
In response to his 
inquiry regarding the way in which the cost of maintaining the base 
had been determined by his bank, Mr. Rockefeller said that he would 
Submit a memorandum. 
Other comments expressed agreement that setting a reserve 
requirement at 20 per cent on Euro-dollar borrowings above the base 
had given a clear signal that it would be desirable to maintain the 
base. 
A suggestion was made that it might be equitable if the base 
could be up-dated by revising it in some relation to the total amount 
of assets or liabilities in branches abroad rather than in relation to 
net borrowings abroad by head offices at the time the bases were 
initiaLLy determined. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that Mr. Rockefeller's 
suggestion of a phase-out period had merit. 
S u c h questions of equity 
*ere important to the Board, and in bringing them to the Board's atten-
tion the Council was performing one of the functions for which it had 

Z512 
9/15/72 
-22-
been established. 
In that connection he referred to a current legislative 
Proposal, the Financial Advisory Committee Act, that would institute a 
review of Federal Government committees, councils, and other such bodies 
with a view to reducing their number and requiring that those that 
remained in existence either open their proceedings to the public or 
have a full transcript made of meetings that would be made available 
to the public in due course. 
If the legislation should be enacted in 
those terms, the Federal Advisory Council would effectively cease to 
exist or its function would have to be recaptured through other means. 
However, he was glad to report that an exemption had now been obtained 
and therefore the Council could continue its useful function. 
Item 4. 
Regulatory matters. 
A. What problems do Council members see in the 
apparently growing use of subordinated debt 
as bank capital and the expansion of debt in 
the capital structure of bank holding companies? 
The Council does not see any serious problems arising as a 
result of the growing use of debt in the capital structure of banks and 
bank holding companies. 
They see no reason why a mixture of equity and 
debt cannot serve adequately as a protective cushion for depositors and 
others, providing that the volume of debt relative to equity is kept 
Within reasonable limits. 
However, the determination as to what is a reasonable mixture 
°f equity and debt in the capital structure of bank holding companies 
can only be made by an examination of each individual company. 
In response to a question, President Clausen indicated that the 
view the Council had stated appeared to be widespread among bankers. 
The use of debt in a capital structure was beneficial to depositors 

2513 
9/15/72 
-23-
because it was subordinated. 
There were built-in safeguards to keep a 
reasonable relationship between equity and debt. 
An undue proportion 
of debt capital would raise doubts regarding the safety of the institu-
tion's stock, which would be harmful to its price-earnings ratio. 
How-
ever, with earnings of the banking industry rising and price-earnings 
ratios rising along with them, the use of subordinated debt capital in 
banks and bank holding companies was considered a useful device. 
Sub-
ordinated debt capital was not disguised in statements, but was shown 
separately from equity capital. 
Governor Brimmer observed that an increasing number of banks, 
including large ones, were selling debt instruments, thus weakening 
their equity position, at least on paper. 
He inquired how the Council 
Would suggest coping with that problem. 
President Clausen expressed 
the view that cases should be judged individually on the basis of asset 
condition. 
B. What impact on banks do Council members foresee 
if regulations recently proposed by the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board regarding variable mortgage 
rates are adopted in their present form? 
The recent proposal by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to 
Permit savings and loan associations to offer variable rate mortgages 
indicated that this device would be an alternative for a prospective 
borrower to a fixed-rate mortgage. 
Although it now appears unlikely 
that the variable rate feature will achieve wide popularity with 
borrowers, many lending institutions will seek to offer the option, 
in all likelihood many commercial banks will want' to make similar 
accommodations available in order to remain competitive, and Federal 
iegislation should be adopted to make this possible. 
Should the 
Practice become sufficiently widespread, it probably would persuade 

2514 
9/15/72 
-24-
more bankers to participate more actively and persistently in the 
mortgage lending field than has heretofore been true. 
However, several members of the Council foresee serious 
problems arising from variable rate mortgages. 
President Clausen commented that the Council had noted in its 
discussions that about 15 or 20 years ago most corporations preferred 
to borrow at a fixed rate rather than at the variable rates then newly-
introduced, but now they had become accustomed to the latter. 
The 
Council had no expectation that variable mortgage rates would become 
highly popular, but in the early stages of their use it would be desir-
able for banks to have the flexibility of being able to offer them. 
Chairman Burns noted that the material sent to the Congress 
regarding the Board's housing study had included a discussion of 
variable mortgage rates, and it was agreed that copies of the pertinent 
Paper would be sent to members of the Council. 
Item 5. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit 
policies under current circumstances? 
The economy is clearly gaining strength, and a broadly based 
uPWard cyclical movement appears under way. 
Against this background 
and in the light of prospects for a substantial Federal budget deficit 
vith its stimulative effects, a timely recognition of the need to avoid 
an excessive money and credit expansion could do much to reduce infla-
tionary expectations, reinforce the progress already made in slowing 
the rate of price increase, and assist in improving the international 
stability of the dollar. 
Chairman Burns requested a show of hands to indicate, without 
defining terms, how many members of the Council thought that (1) Federal 
Reserve monetary policy had been too easy (Mr. English responded); 

Otr-i 
tz 
9/15/72 
-25-
(2) monetary policy ought to be tightened now (Messrs. English and 
Freeman responded); and (3) monetary policy should probably be tighter 
several months from now (all Council members responded). 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on November 2-3, 1972. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
