FR 609 
Minutes for 
March 10, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

835 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 10, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Judge Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Consultant 
Unionization and collective bargaining. There had been made 
available to the members of the Board copies of a memorandum from 
Judge Pierce dated February 28, 1969, regarding a proposed policy on 
unionization and collective bargaining within the Federal Reserve 
System. (A copy of the document has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Governor Sherrill stated that he would like to have Judge 
Pierce review the discussion of the subject with the Reserve Bank 
.„ 
£ 
* 
! 
Presidents, go over the memorandum, and point out the major apparent 
problems. 
• v 
, : .-., .'•.>' 'i'lc.V' ;<*•,! "-'JO'-. ! i''? 
;'v • I."' v'.. 
" , •(..-j; L.i i „"<"', 
Judge Pierce said that he had met with the Reserve Bank 
Presidents on March 3, prior to which he had met with a group of the 

8 3 6 
3/10/69 
-7-
Presidents consisting of the members of the Personnel Committee plus 
President Swan. The committee appeared quite satisfied 
with the memo-
randum but said they would review it further. The Reserve Bank 
Presidents had asked questions about the document and had made only 
relatively minor suggestions. They proposed to submit comments and 
suggestions in 10 days, but such suggestions had not as yet been 
received. When the suggestions were received, Judge Pierce said, he 
would try to incorporate them in a revised document or provide reasons 
why he did not feel that they should be used. 
Judge Pierce then reviewed the document for the benefit of the 
Board members. The first part, as he pointed out, consisted of a 
statement of the background to the problem in light of the circum-
stances that had developed at San Francisco. Turning to the proposals, 
he said that he had tried to relate the document to Executive Order 
10988 where appropriate and, at the same time, to take care of the 
specific needs of the Federal Reserve System. The document could 
evolve either as guidelines or as an order; this question might be 
the subject of negotiation with the Presidents. Personally he leaned 
toward an order, but that was a matter of policy. He did not think 
that the proposed document was basically inconsistent with Executive 
Order 10988. 
In reply to a question about the disadvantages seen in proceed-
ing under Executive Order 10988, Judge Pierce referred to several 

837 
3/10/69 
-7-
provisions of the Executive Order that he did not believe would be 
desirable from the standpoint of the Federal Reserve. If there was 
a feeling that the Federal Reserve Banks actually should be under 
Executive Order 10988, he saw a risk in issuing any independent docu-
ment at all. If an attempt were made to explain the issuance of 
guidelines by saying that the question of the standing of the Federal 
Reserve Banks under the Executive Order was unsettled, he felt that 
the Federal Reserve would be in the courts immediately. 
Governor Mitchell observed that he doubted whether any of the 
Reserve Bank Presidents would want to proceed under Executive Order 
10988, and Judge Pierce agreed. Starting from that position, which 
he believed to be unanimous, there were varying views among the 
Presidents. Asked whether he felt the Presidents were aware of the 
relatively small gain in going ahead with an independent order or 
guidelines and losing the absolute protection against strikes afforded 
by the Executive Order, Judge Pierce said he thought the Presidents 
were quite aware of that factor. 
Judge Pierce then turned to a section of the proposals in 
which it would be stated that any Federal Reserve Bank employee would 
be free to join any labor organization or to refrain from such activ-
ities, with the exception of certain designated classes of personnel. 
He indicated that he was giving some consideration to the possibility 
of writing in language to the effect that Federal Reserve Banks would 

3/10/69 
-4-
not interfere with unionization efforts, thus bringing the document 
closer to Executive Order 10988, but he felt the Reserve Bank Presi-
dents might resist the inclusion of such language. 
Governor Sherrill agreed that several Reserve Bank Presidents, 
at the least, probably would resist the inclusion of such language 
strongly. Other Board members concurred, although some expressed 
sympathy with Judge Pierce's idea. It was then suggested that if 
the document remained silent on this score, that could be a point of 
bargaining. Chairman Martin supported that point of view. He added 
that at this stage, at least, he preferred to think of the document 
in terms of guidelines for the purpose of gaining acceptance within 
the System. 
The next major issue referred to by Judge Pierce related to 
the portion of the document in which it was stated that the compensa-
tion paid employees of a Reserve Bank would not be among those matters 
on which a Reserve Bank would be obliged to negotiate with a recognized 
labor organization. The Reserve Bank Presidents had suggested that 
the reference be to "wages and hours" rather than "compensation. 
Governor Sherrill said he considered this the key issue, for 
if wages and hours were removed from the area of negotiation not too 
much of substance appeared to be left. He understood that there were 
differences of opinion among the Reserve Bank Presidents on this issue, 
rather to his surprise. Some Presidents clearly did not want the 

839 
A 
3/10/69 
-5-
matter of wages and hours to be the subject of negotiation, but others 
appeared quite eager to take on this function, especially if the 
negotiations were within ranges of compensation approved by the Board. 
Judge Pierce noted that a related question had to do with 
representation of unions on Reserve Bank management committees that 
appraised community wage surveys when salary structure recommendations 
were submitted to the Board. As the document was now drafted, it would 
allow individual Reserve Banks to negotiate on that point. 
Judge Pierce then reviewed other parts of the document and 
there was general discussion with respect to them, relating mostly to 
his proposal for the establishment of a Federal Reserve System labor 
relations panel, to consist of from three to five members, all except 
one of whom would be either a President or a Board member. A question 
raised in this regard was whether it would be feasible for a Board 
member to be a member of such a panel, in view of the time and effort 
that might be required. 
Chairman Martin then raised the question of procedure from 
this point forward. Governor Sherrill said that after comments had 
been received from the Presidents on Judge Pierce's document, there 
would be another meeting with the committee of Presidents (Personnel 
Committee plus President Swan). If there then appeared to be no 
difficult policy issues, the revision of the document would proceed 
and the final draft would be submitted to the Board and to the 

840 
3/10/69 
-7-
Presidents. If there were any substantial problems, they would be 
brought back to the Board. In the meantime, President Swan would this 
morning respond to union representatives in San Francisco that an elec-
tion could be held provided mutually acceptable conditions were agreed 
upon and that these were being studied. 
Judge Pierce pointed out that comments from the Presidents 
should be received by March 13, after which he would decide whether to 
incorporate such suggestions and, if not, provide a rationale. There-
after, he would get in touch with Governor Sherrill and set up a meet-
ing with the committee of Presidents. After that, he would be in a 
position to write up the document in final form. Accordingly, the 
revised document should be available by about the first of April. 
Governor Sherrill noted that at that time it could be decided 
whether to issue guidelines or an order. 
Messrs. Molony, Cardon, and Johnson and Judge Pierce then 
withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott of the Office of the Secretary 
Mrs. Duerson and Mr. Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Fisher and Freedman of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data Processing 

841 
3/10/69 
-7-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Allied Bank International, New York, 
1 
New York, approving (1) an increase in its 
paid-in capital stock and (2) an amendment to 
its articles of association. 
Letter to Bankers International Corporation, 
2 
New York, New York, approving the acquisition 
of stock of a corporation to be organized in 
Delaware, such acquisition to be effected 
through the exchange of all stock currently 
held in Bankers International (Luxembourg) 
S. A. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
3 
York authorizing the opening and maintenance 
of an account in the name of the Central Bank 
of Kuwait. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
4 
interposing no objection to the 1969 foreign 
travel program approved by the Bank's Board of 
Directors. 
In connection with Item No. 4, there was some discussion as 
i 
to System representation that would be appropriate at the meeting of 
Technicians of Central Banks of the American Continent, to be held in 
Peru in November, and it was understood that the desirability of a 
balanced System delegation would be borne in mind as plans were 
developed. 

3/10/69 
-4-
Governor Sherrill raised the question whether Board staff, as 
well as staff of the New York Bank, should be represented at further 
meetings in Basle, sponsored by the Bank for International Settlements, 
regarding the use of computers in central banks. While a representa-
tive of the Board should be able to make a contribution to this study, 
the benefits to the Board would probably be marginal. On the other 
hand, there was the problem of presenting a well-rounded System view-
point. After some discussion, the matter was left to be resolved 
according to Governor Sherrill's judgment. 
Application of Dacotah Bank Holding Co. (Items 5 and 6). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on February 5, 1969, of the application of Dacotah 
Bank Holding Co., Aberdeen, South Dakota, which presently owned a 
majority of the voting shares of Security Bank, Webster, South Dakota, 
to become a bank holding company through acquisition of up to 100 per 
cent of the voting shares of Farmers and Merchants Bank, Aberdeen; 
Citizens State Bank, Clark; and Citizens Bank of Mobridge, Mobridge, 
all in South Dakota. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 5 and 6. 
Changes in call report schedules. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated March 7, 1969, from Messrs. Sigel and Veenstra 
recommending certain changes in the schedules appearing on the back 

. 843 
3/10/69 
-9-
of the call report of condition that would (1) expand the real estate 
mortgage credit section and (2) delete the separate reporting of demand 
and time deposits of savings and loan associations. Certain other 
minor changes, recommended as a result of the broader revision of the 
call report approved by the Board on January 30, 1969, were also 
recommended. 
After remarks by Mr. Sigel based on the distributed material, 
the staff responded to a number of questions from members of the Board 
regarding the need for information on deposits of mutual savings banks 
and savings and loan associations. In the opinion of staff, the loss 
of information resulting from the proposed deletion would not be 
significant. 
The proposed changes were then approved unanimously, it being 
understood that they would be cleared with the Bureau of the Budget. 
Misleading advertising under Regulation P (Items 7-9). There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation and the Legal Division dated March 6, 1969, relating to 
letters sent to banks by C. Starkey & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, 
asserting that the Bank Protection Act of 1968 does not require the 
installation in banking offices of cameras or other surveillance 
devices and that banks might in lieu thereof install U.S. Currency 
Protection Units, which C. Starkey & Company offered for sale. 

11 
3/10/69 
- 7 -
Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter to the com-
pany that would indicate, with respect to the Board's Regulation P, 
Minimum Security Devices and Procedures for Federal Reserve Banks and 
State Member Banks, that the assertion was at best misleading. The 
letter would request that C. Starkey & Company refrain from making 
such assertions in the future. The company would also be requested 
to inform all State member banks to which the assertions had been 
made of the incorrectness thereof. 
In addition it was proposed that copies of the Board's letter 
be sent to the U.S. Currency Protection Corporation, Scottsdale, 
Arizona, (manufacturer of the protection units), and also to the 
Federal Trade Commission for whatever action the Commission deemed 
appropriate since the actions of C. Starkey & Company appeared to 
constitute false or misleading advertising within the meaning of 
section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. 
Following comments by Messrs. Leavitt and Via, Governor 
Robertson suggested deletion of the request that the company retract 
the statements made to State member banks on the grounds that such 
a requirement would be difficult to enforce. There was agreement with 
this suggestion. 
There was also agreement with Governor Brimmer's suggestion 
that appropriate notification of the Board's action should be given to 
the Federal Reserve Banks and the other bank supervisory agencies. 

845 
3/10/69 
-11-
Unanimous approval was then given to the sending of letters in 
the form attached as Items 7-9. 
Director appointment. It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis whether Fred I. 
Brown, Jr., President of Arkansas Foundry Company, Little Rock, 
Arkansas, would accept appointment, if tendered, as a director of the 
Little Rock Branch for the unexpired portion of the term ending 
December 31, 1970, 
to succeed Ralph M. Sloan, Jr., who resigned in 
January 1969. It was understood that if Mr. Brown would accept, the 
appointment would be made. 
Secretary's Note: It having been 
ascertained that Mr. Brown would 
accept the appointment if tendered, 
an appointment wire was sent to him 
on March 12, 1969. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
' ! 
, I 
Secretary 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. If 
3/10/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 10, 1969 
Allied Bank International, 
P. 0. Box 3076, 
Church Street Station, 
New York, New Yorkc 
10008 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 17, 1969, the 
Board of Governors approves an increase in the paid-in capital 
stock of your Corporation from $16,500,000 to $18,000,000. 
It is understood that the additional paid-in shares will be 
purchased by First National Bank of Fort Worth, Fort Worth, Texas, 
at a cost of $2,000,000 of which $1,500,000 represents par value 
of the shares and $500,000 represents paid-in surplus. 
Accordingly, the Board also approves an amendment to 
Article TENTH of your Corporation's Articles of Association to 
include the name of the new stockholder. 
As you are aware, Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act requires that an increase in issued and outstanding capital 
stock be fully paid in within 90 days after the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

847 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
m
m
k 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
3/10/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
f^LRE^V 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 10, 1969 
Bankers International Corporation, 
280 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10017 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
December 11, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corpora-
tion to purchase and hold all of the stock of a Corporation to be 
organized in Delaware ("DC"), such stock to be acquired through the 
exchange of all .the stock BIC currently holds in Bankers International 
(Luxembourg) S.A. (BILSA), provided the shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. In this connection, the Board also 
approves the purchase and holding of shares of DC by your Corporation 
in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in the provisions of 
Section 25(a)(12 U.S.C. 615(c)) of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 
211.9(b) of Regulation K. It is the Board's understanding that BILSA 
may subsequently be merged into DC. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of DC by BIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in DC if DC at any time fails to re-
strict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if DC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation, in 
any manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIC will 
cause DC (a) to permit examiners appointed by the 
Board of Governors to examine DC, and (b) to furnish 
the Board of Governors with such reports as it may 
require from time to time; 
to BIC; 

Bankers International Corporation 
-2-
848 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by DC be 
reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if DC were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That BIC shall not carry on its books the shares of DC 
at a net amount in excess of the book capital accounts 
of DC, after giving effect to the elimination of all 
known losses. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of DC. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that with 
regard to the foreign credit restraint program now in effect DC's opera-
tions will be governed by the principles set forth in Governor Brimmer's 
letter of January 3, 1969, to Mr. Alfred Brittain III, President of 
Bankers Trust Company. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

849 
T E L E G R A M 
LEASED WINK SERVICE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
March 10, 1969. 
MAC LAURY - NEW YORK 
Re your wire of March 6. Board approves opening and main-
tenance of an account on the books of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York in the name of the Central Bank of Kuwait, 
. .. 
. . • 
i • 
- . • 
subject to the usual terms and conditions. It is understood 
that participation in this account will be offered to other 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
(signed) Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 
Item No. 3 
3/10/69 

850 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
3/10/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 10, 1969. 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
The Board has reviewed the foreign travel program 
of your Bank for 1969, transmitted with your letter of 
February 21, and has no objection to your proceeding with 
the plans as outlined. The Board notes your statement that 
in formulating the program due consideration was given to 
its effect on our international balance of payments and that 
you believe the program is consistent with the System's 
responsibilities in this area. 
Should there be modifications in the program, the 
Board will appreciate being advised. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

Item No. 
3/10/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
DACOTAH BANK HOLDING CO., 
Aberdeen, South Dakota, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
°f up to 100 per cent of the voting 
shares of Farmers and Merchants Bank, 
Aberdeen; Citizens State Bank, Clark; 
and Citizens Bank of Mobridge, Mobridge, 
all in South Dakota. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has coaie before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Dacotah Bank 
Holding Co., Aberdeen, South Dakota, for the Board's prior approval 
o f action whereby Applicant, which presently owns a majority of the 
v°ting shares of Security Bank, Webster, South Dakota, would become 
a hank holding company through the acquisition of up to 100 per cent 
°f the voting shares of the following three banks in South Dakota: 
Farmers and Merchants Bank, Aberdeen; Citizens State Bank, Clark; 
and Citizens Bank of Mobridge, Mobridge. 

-
I 
VI' 
As required cy section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 
of Banks for the State of South Dakota, and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Superintendent recommended that the application 
be approved. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on OctoDer 26, 1968 (33 Federal Register 15892), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
aPplication was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
f°r its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
a n d a 1 1 those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months a.vter the date of the Order, unless such period is 
^tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 10th day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and 
Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

- 
853 
Item No. 6 
3/10/69 
BOARD OF C0VE3N0RS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
DACOTAH BANK HOLDING CO., ABERDEEN, SOUTH DAKOTA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Dacotah Bank Holding Co., Aberdeen, South Dakota ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
to become a bank holding company. Applicant, which presently owns 
a majority of the voting shares of Security Bank, Webster, South 
Dakota ("Webster Bank"), would become a oank holding company through 
the acquisition oj up to 100 per cent of the voting shares of Farmers 
and Merchants Bank, Aberdeen ("Auerdeen Bank"), Citizens State Bank, 
Clark ("Clark Bank"), and Citizens Bank oi Mobridge, Mobridge 
("Mobridge Bank"), all in South Dakota. 
Applicant's present subsidiary, Webster Bank, controls two 
banking offices and total deposits of $6.1 million.-' Aberdeen Bank 
($9.6 million deposits) and Mobridge Bank ($5.3 million deposits) 
have one office each and Clark Bank ($5.2 million deposits) has four 
offices. 
1/ All banking data are as of June 29, 1968, unless otherwise noted. 

854 
-U 
rj 
The four banks which would comprise Applicant's system are 
closely related. Applicant and, indirectly, Webster Bank are 
controlled by six individuals, who also own substantial interests 
in Aberdeen Bank, Hobridge Bank, and Clark Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
application was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, 
the Superintendent of Banks for the State of South Dakota. The 
Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served. In each case the Board is required 
to take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 

• 
I. 855 
-3-
Competitive effects of proposed transaction. - Consummation 
of Applicant's proposal would result in Applicant's becoming the 
only bank holding company oased in South Dakota. The $26.2 million 
aggregate deposits held by its present and proposed subsidiaries 
represent 2 per cent of the total deposits held by banks in the State. 
Two bank holding companies, the principal banking subsidiaries of which 
are located in Minnesota, own 11 subsidiary banks (46 offices) in 
South Dakota and control 39 per cent of the aggregate deposits held 
by banks located in the State. 
Mobridge Bank and Aberdeen Bank are located 100 miles 
apart, while Webster Bank and Clark Bank are located at a distance 
of 55 miles and 80 miles, respectively, from Aberdeen Bank. The 
closest offices of any of the banks are the main office of Webster 
Bank and a branch of Clark Bank, which are located 23 miles apart. 
Although there is a slight overlap of the market areas served by 
these two offices, competition between the two banks appears 
insignificant. There is no competition among other offices of the 
subject banks, and, in view of the distances between them and the 
number of banks located in the intervening areas, there is little 
probability that such competition would develop in the future. The 
only competing banks with offices located in the towns of Aberdeen, 
Clark, and Mobridge are subsidiaries of the aforementioned Minnesota-
based bank holding companies. In addition, Aberdeen Bank, Clark 
Bank, and Mobridge Bank each competes to a lesser extent with 
numerous rural banking institutions, the closest of which is located 

856 
-u-
over 10 miles from the site of its home office. It appears that the 
rural banks would be little affected by consummation of the proposal 
and that the primary competitive impact would be upon the affiliates 
of the two out-of-state bank holding companies in the respective 
towns. Applicant's present subsidiary, Webster Bank, is the only 
bank in Webster, and its competitive position would remain substan-
tially unchanged. It does not appear that consummation of the 
proposed acquisitions would impair the viability or competitive 
effectiveness of any competing bank. Rather, any increase in the 
competitive ability of the group banks would enable them to compete 
more effectively against the larger organizations which have 
subsidiaries located in the areas served by the proposed subsidiary 
banks. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that the 
proposed transaction will not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance 
of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business 
of banking in any relevant area, and will not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any 
section of the country, 
^^Financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicant's financial condition, and that of its present subsidiary, 
Webster Bank, are satisfactory, and both have capable management and 
favorable prospects. Each of the proposed subsidiaries, Aberdeen Bank, 
Clark Bank, and Moorid^e Bank is also in satisfactory financial 
condition, with satisfactory management and favorable prospects. 

Considerations relating to the banking factors are 
consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
The banking services offered in the communities served by the 
present and proposed subsidiary banks appear sufficient to serve 
customer needs. No new banking services or changes in present 
services will be offered by the banks as a result of approval of the 
present application. The greatest asserted benefits of the proposal 
are the increased ability of the group banks, through participations 
among them, to finance an expanding agriculture sector, and the 
ability of Clark, Mobridge, and Webster banks to offer their customers 
access to agriculture credit assistance and trust services, through 
referrals to the Aberdeen Bank, which presently offers such services. 
All of the foregoing benefits asserted by Applicant are 
available or could be provided either through correspondent banks 
or through the present affiliation. However, Applicant's proposal 
Would provide some efficiencies in the area of portfolio management 
and would facilitate participation of loans among the present and 
proposed subsidiary banks, and these considerations lend some weight 
toward approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
March 10, 1969.' 

BDARD OF GDVERNDRS 
. ^ b V c o ^ ' . 
o f t h e 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/10/69 
St-. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C IAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 11, 1969 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Mr. Charles E. Starkey, 
C. Starkey & Company, 
6641 West 71st Street, 
Indianapolis, Indiana. 46268 
Dear Mr. Starkey: 
The Board understands that you have sent letters to banks 
asserting that the Bank Protection Act of 1968 does not require the 
installation in banking offices of cameras, or other surveillance 
devices, and that banks may in lieu thereof install "U. S. Currency 
Protection Units", which you offer for sale. This is to advise you 
that, with respect to the Board's regulation to implement the Bank 
Protection Act (Regulation P, 12 CFR 216), which applies to State 
member banks of the Federal Reserve System and to Federal Reserve 
Banks, the assertion attributed to you is, at best, misleading. 
The Board's regulation provides that if a bank does not 
install devices at least equivalent to those listed in Appendix A of 
the regulation, which list includes surveillance devices, then the 
bank must furnish a statement of reasons for its decision. The 
regulation also provides that whenever the Board determines that the 
security devices used by a bank under its supervision are deficient, 
it may require the bank to take corrective action. Thus, a bank that 
believes it has good cause for not installing cameras, or other sur-
veillance devices, may nevertheless be required to do so, if the 
Board disagrees with its decision. 
Since the assertion attributed to you could result in 
purchases by banks of "U. S. Currency Protection Units" in the 
false belief that they would, by virtue thereof, not be required to 
install cameras, or other surveillance devices, you are requested to 
refrain from making such assertions. 
A copy of this letter is being sent to U. S. Currency 
Protection Corporation, 6144 E. Calle Del Norte, Scottsdale, Arizona, 

Mr. Charles E. Starkey 
-2-
Ij * 
which the Board understands is the manufacturer of "U. S. Currency 
Protection Units"; a copy is also being sent to the Federal Trade 
Commission for its information and such action as it may deem 
appropriate. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF GDVERNDRB 
of CON-
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 8 
3/10/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
March 11, 1969. 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
U. S. Currency Protection Corporation, 
6144 E. Calle Del Norte, 
Scottsdale, Arizona. 85251 
Gentlemen: 
There is enclosed for your information a copy of the 
Board's letter to C. Starkey & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, 
asking that company to refrain from representing to banks that 
are subject to the Board's supervision under the Bank Protection 
Act of 1968 that they may install "U. S. Currency Protection Units" 
in lieu of cameras, or other surveillance devices. 
r> 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 

BOARD • F GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
861 
Item No. 9 
3/10/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 11, 1969. 
Mr. Berryman Davis, Legal Advisor 
for Screening and Planning, 
Bureau of Deceptive Practices, 
Federal Trade Commission, 
Penn. Avenue at Sixth Street, N. W. , 
Washington, D. C. 20580 
Dear Mr. Davis: 
Enclosed for your information, and such action as you may 
deem appropriate, is a copy of a letter the Board has sent to 
C. Starkey & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, asking that company to 
refrain from representing to banks that are subject to the Board's 
supervision under the Bank Protection Act of 1968 that they are not 
required to install cameras, or other surveillance devices, but may 
in lieu thereof install "U. S. Currency Protection Units", which 
C. Starkey & Company sells. Also enclosed is a copy of a letter, 
dated January 25, 1969, which C. Starkey & Company apparently sent 
to a number of banks and which prompted the Board's action in this 
matter. 
For your convenience, there is enclosed a copy of the 
Board's regulation to implement the Bank Protection Act of 1968 
(Regulation P, 12 CFR 216). If you have questions concerning this 
matter, Brenton C. Leavitt of the Board's Division of Supervision 
and Regulation (Code 147; extension 502) and J. William Via, Jr. of 
the Legal Division (Code 147; extension 583) will be glad to assist 
you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures 
