Minutes for 
November 24, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the tninutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

.4550 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, November 24, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
JJZ 
tatX 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Winkler, Secretary, Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Doyle, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Poundstone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Application of First Chicago International Finance Corporation 
•^i^SSLNo. 1). There had been distributed memoranda from the Division 
u H : , . •
 r 
Examinations and the Legal Division dated October 19 and November 21, 
respectively, concerning the application of First Chicago Inter-
n a tional Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, for the specific con-
S e n t of the Board to hold shares of Continental de Creditos Mercantiles, 
C A » Caracas, Venezuela, which had been acquired previously by First 
(IV! • 

11/24/67 
-2-
Chicago pursuant to the general consent provisions of Regulation K 
(Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Fed-
eral Reserve Act). 
When First Chicago was examined as of August 14, 1967, the 
examiner concluded that the acquisition of Continental's shares should 
not have been made under the general consent provisions of the regula-
tion, since the examiner considered that the shares had been acquired 
from a broker-dealer. Section 211.8(a) of Regulation K prohibits the 
a cquisition, without prior Board approval, of shares of a foreign cor-
poration through a broker, dealer, or stock exchange firm or represen-
tative. Although First Chicago continued to believe that the acquisi-
tion had been properly made under the general consent provisions, it 
Wished to conform to the examiner's determination, and had applied for 
the specific consent of the Board to the acquisition. 
The Division of Examinations' memorandum recommended that the 
^°ard grant specific consent to the acquisition and holding of these 
shares by First Chicago. The Legal Division, in its memorandum, stated 
that the issue was whether, since these shares represented a previous 
^Vestment in the Venezuelan corporation by Lee Higginson Corporation, 
securities firm which had been merged into the securities firm of 
^
ayden Stone & Co., the acquisition should be regarded as having been 
"through a broker, dealer, or stock exchange firm or representa-
t:^
ve" so as to make the general consent provisions of Regulation K 

1 trt:o 
11/24/67 
-3-
inapplicable. It was First Chicago's view that this prohibition did 
not apply in the present case, because the shares were not actually 
acquired from Lee Higginson, but from a nominee of Calais Corporation, 
which had been organized by former shareholders of Lee Higginson for 
the sole purpose of liquidating those assets of Lee Higginson that 
were not purchased by Hayden Stone in the merger transaction. More 
importantly, First Chicago believed that, even if the transaction were 
to be considered an acquisition from Lee Higginson, that firm should 
not properly have been regarded as acting in the capacity of a "broker, 
dealer, or stock exchange firm or representative" because it was no 
longer in business (having been liquidated), and also because the shares 
had been held by Lee Higginson in its investment portfolio and had not 
keen acquired or retained in the course of its trading operations as a 
dealer. 
The Legal Division's memorandum went on to state that the pro-
visio n excluding acquisitions of foreign stock through brokers or 
dealers from the scope of the general consent was included in the 
r e8ulation because it seemed inappropriate that Edge corporations 
should act as investment companies holding foreign stocks. Rather, it 
W a s thought that they should confine their stock acquisitions to the 
P rivate, directly negotiated type of financing transactions. 
. * i 
In this case, although Lee Higginson had placed privately small 
blocks of the Venezuelan corporation's stock with institutional inves-
t s , First Chicago's purchase thereof was, in effect, an acquisition 

4553 
11/24/67 
-4-
from the former shareholders of Lee Higginson of its long-held propri-
etary interests in the foreign corporation, not an acquisition from 
Lee Higginson itself of shares held in its former capacity as a broker, 
dealer, or stock exchange firm. The Legal Division's memorandum stated 
that the Division had no objection to the granting of specific consent 
in this case but hoped it would be recognized that, as a legal matter, 
s^ch specific consent was not really necessary, and that the granting 
thereof would not serve as a precedent in future cases involving the 
same legal proposition. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether, in view of the Legal Divi-
sion's position, the Board should grant specific consent in this case. 
Doyle replied that an Edge corporation was not required to use the 
S^neral consent provision but could, in any case, seek the specific 
consent of the Board. Therefore, there was no reason why specific con-
S ent should not be given since the Edge corporation had requested it. 
After a general review by Mr. Doyle of the material in the 
^
egal Division's memorandum, Governor Robertson observed that every 
s ituation would be different, and that the problem of this case serving 
a s a precedent could be obviated by changing the letter to First Chicago 
t o state that while it seemed doubtful that specific consent was required 
this case, the Board nevertheless granted its consent to the acquisi-
tion and holding of shares of the Venezuelan corporation by First Chicago. 
Th 
aere being general agreement with this suggestion, a letter to First 
Ch • 
l cago was approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 1. 

4 4554 
11/24/67 
-5-
Conference of General Auditors. There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated November 21, 1967, 
concerning a proposal by the General Auditors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks that meetings of the Conference of General Auditors be held 
annually instead of biennially, and that they alternate between the 
Board's offices and a Reserve Bank city. 
In a previous Division memorandum dated August 2, 1967, the 
Board was informed that during its regular meeting in March 1967 the 
Conference had expressed the view that it would be desirable to meet 
annually, and to alternate the meetings between Washington and a 
Reserve Bank city. That memorandum also outlined the Division's pro-
posals looking toward an expanded and more constructive role for the 
Conference. In discussing the subject at its meeting on August 3, 
the Board suggested that the Division's proposals be referred 
t o the Presidents of the Reserve Banks for their views. Accordingly, 
lett ers were forwarded to President Swan, Chairman of the Presidents 
Conference, and also to the Chairmen of the Boards of Directors of the 
respective Reserve Banks. President Swan subsequently responded that 
^ e Presidents were agreed that greater cooperation between the audit 
f unction and the operating side of the Reserve Banks in the development 
and perfection of programs and systems was not expected to create any 
Problems with respect to operating functions. Six of the Chairmen 
t e sPonded and expressed themselves as substantially in agreement with 
^ e proposals as outlined. 

' 455 
U/24/67 
-6-
At a special meeting held in Seattle in October 1967, the 
General Auditors reaffirmed their earlier recommendation concerning 
the time and place of the meetings of the Conference. During the 
Seattle meeting, there had also been further discussion of the pro-
posals suggested by the Division of Examinations to implement a pro-
gram that would seek to attain the highest possible standards of audit 
P
erformance at the Reserve Banks. 
With respect to one of those proposals, the General Auditors 
e xPressed reservations concerning the development of guidelines regard-
ing 
minimum scope of audits of major Reserve Bank operations. 
However, 
they were willing that the Division of Examinations undertake to amend 
the present standard frequency guide to include basic minimum scope 
the respective audit assignments, and indicated they would cooper-
a t e in the project. 
Governor Brimmer inquired why the General Auditors reacted 
unfavorably to the proposal for development of guidelines concerning 
Minimum scope. 
Mr. Solomon replied that he did not agree with the position 
t aken by the Auditors. However, their argument seemed to be that there 
W e r e too many variations from one Reserve Bank to another to warrant 
e s t a b l i s h i n g even minimum scope guidelines; that such statements would 
b e arbitrary and would disregard the individual circumstances of each 
P a rticular Bank. The feeling was that this matter should be left to 

4556 
11/24/67 
-7-
the judgment of each individual General Auditor in the performance of 
his functions. 
Mr. Solomon also indicated that there was a certain amount of 
support for this argument from some of the accounting firms, including 
°ne that had made surveys of the audit function at certain Reserve 
Banks. in particular, it was felt that minimum scope and frequency 
guidelines tended to become maximum guidelines. Mr. Solomon said, 
however, that he had emphasized to the General Auditors that the ade-
quacy of scope of audits had to be considered by the Board's examiners. 
There appeared to be no objection on the part of the General Auditors 
co the examiners developing their own guidelines on the minimum scope 
audits, and they agreed to comment on whatever guidelines were 
^
eveloped. The end result would be about the same, and the procedure 
aPpeared for some reason to be more acceptable to the General Auditors. 
The recommendation that the meetings of the Conference of Gen-
e r a l Auditors be held annually instead of biennially and alternated 
^
etween the Board's offices and a Federal Reserve Bank city was then 
--<c£oved unanimously. 
Several members of the staff concerned with the foregoing items 
withdrew at this point. 
Economic and financial developments. At the request of the 
^
a i r m a n , Mr. Solomon (Adviser) reviewed developments in the London 
market, where buying had been particularly heavy today, and also 
°
nditions in the foreign exchange markets. 

4557 
11/24/67 
-8-
Chairman Martin noted that the British reportedly had reached 
agreement with the International Monetary Fund on conditions that would 
Permit them to receive a $1.4 billion standby credit from the Fund. He 
also noted that a U. S. delegation, including Under Secretary of the 
Trea sury Deming, Governor Daane, and Messrs. Hayes and Coombs of the 
New York Bank, was going to Frankfurt this weekend to meet with gover-
nors of the European central banks for further discussion of coopera-
tive measures that might be taken. 
The Chairman then turned to Mr. Brill, who reported several key 
J ; ' 
statistics on the domestic economy, following which the Chairman noted 
that the House Ways and Means Committee was to hold additional hearings 
4i 
next week on the President's tax proposals. All in all, the Chairman 
a dded, there appeared to be little to do at this stage except to await 
developments, both international and domestic. 
At the request of Governor Robertson and other members of the 
r Ui : j • 
' * 
. , < 
, 
[ 
- 
1 - * ^ 
; 
:" 
r 
' , • i . ' 
y 
, 
^°ard who said that they had received conflicting reports from bankers 
r egarding 
the strength of loan demand, it was understood that the staff 
w°uld consider possible methods for ascertaining whether there appeared 
t o be significant variations either geographically or according to size 
o f banks. 
Governor Brimmer raised the question whether information could 
obtained on the volume of loan commitments, which members of the 
Fed 
ueral Advisory Council and others had indicated were heavy. Mr. Brill 

4558 
11/24/67 
-9-
referred to technical problems associated with obtaining information 
on such commitments, particularly those of an informal nature for which 
a fee was not paid, but it was understood that the question would be 
explored further by the staff. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
;cu. 
' 11-
Secretary's Note: On November 24, 1967, 
actions were taken on behalf of the Board 
under delegated authority as indicated by 
the following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item numbers 
indicated: 
^L-the Director of the Division of Examinations 
letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
aPProving the appointment of Gordon L. McConnell 
a s assistant examiner. 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
^
etter to The Savings & Trust Company of 
j^diana, Indiana, Pennsylvania, approving 
rj
e establishment of a branch at 2175 Route 
8 6 South, White Township, Indiana County, 
Place of a branch previously approved. 
etter to The Provident Bank, Cincinnati, 
» granting an extension of time within 
Ohio 
J^ich to establish a branch in Colerain 
Unship, Hamilton County. 
Bv 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
-
er to Union Bank and Trust Company, 
i Indiana, approving the establish-
n t of an in-town branch. 
K°komo 
Item No. 

4559 
11/24/67 
- 1 0 -
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
i . , 
Letter to State Bank and Trust Company, 
San Marcos, Texas, approving the estab-
lishment of an in-town branch (drive-in 
facility) and an investment in bank 
Premises. 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, approving the relocation of the 
Rank's Marble Mortgage Company Office from 
5 ? 0 University Avenue to 2600 El Camino Real, 
P alo Alto. 
Item No. 
I V . w 
ou: ; u-' 
u .a 
M ; f/. 
i 'j 6 /' 
•kv. 

4560 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
11/24/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 24, 1967 
First Chicago International Finance Corporation, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of September 8, 1967 
relating to the acquisition by your Corporation on November 17, 
1966 of 129,460 ordinary shares of Continental de Creditos 
Mercantiles, C.A. ("CREMERCA"), Caracas, Venezuela, at a cost 
of U.S. $158,200, pursuant to the general consent provisions of 
section 211.8(a) of Regulation K. 
It is understood that during the examination of your 
Corporation as of August 14, 1967 the Federal Reserve Examiner 
questioned whether the investment conformed to the general con-
sent provisions of section 211.8(a) of Regulation K, which pre-
clude an acquisition of shares thereunder "through a broker, 
deal er, or stock exchange firm or representative. 
While it seems doubtful that specific consent was 
required in this case, the Board of Governors nevertheless 
grants its specific consent, effective November 17, 1966, to 
the above-described acquisition and holding by your Corporation 
of CREMERCA shares, as requested in your letter of September 8, 
1967. 
Very truly yours,* 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

i r r « 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/24/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R D E S P Q N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 27, 1967 
Mr. Leland M, Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of November 20, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Gordon L. McConnell as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4 5 6 2 
FEDEILVL R E S E R V E BANK 
^ 
Item No. 3 
O F 
C L E V E L A N D 
1 1 / 2 4 / 6 7 
P . O . B O X 
6 3 8 7 
CLEVELAND,OHIO 44IOI 
November 24, 1967 
Mr. Robert Fiscus 
Vice President and Treasurer 
The Savings & Trust Company 
of Indiana 
•^idiana, Pennsylvania 
dear Mr. Fiscus: 
This refers to your letter of November 1, 1967 requesting per-
mission to relocate a branch which was to have been established approxi-
mately 583 feet northwest of the intersection of Route 286 and Indian 
Sp rings Road to a site on Route 286, approximately 860 feet northeast 
the same intersection, with both locations in White Township, Indiana 
County, Pennsylvania. 
Because the distance by road between the location of the approved 
Drs.nch and the proposed site exceeds one quarter of a mile, your request 
to relocate the branch is being treated as an application for a new branch 
a^d the approval previously given by the Board will be withdrawn. 
How-
l e r , 
since the information contained in your original application is 
a??licable to the proposed site, it will not be necessary for you to submit 
a new application. 
Upon investigation, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
thao the capital of the bank is adequate, that its management is 
satisfactory, that the proposed branch will serve the convenience and 
n eeds of the community, and that it will not tend to create an undesirable 
situation. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Bank 
Cleveland hereby approves the establishment of a branch by your bank 
a t 2175 Route 286, South, White Township, Indiana County, Pennsylvania, 
provided the branch is established within one year from the date of this 

L R E S E R V E DANK OF CLEVELAND. 
Robert Fiscus 
- 
2 
-
4563 
November 24, 1967 
. -
On the day operations are started, will you please wire us that the 
*anch has been officially opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
B . U - . 
/ - . 
• • n 
; f r ••<.•-i t .. • 
I 7'^L 
H. W. Huning 
Vice President 
J 
ft; 
. 
i * 
i: 
•• " ' 
' 
•:••• 
" 
• ' > / 
• 

II 
4 5 « 0 O P Y 
F E D E R A L RESERVE BANK O F 
C L E V E L A N D 
Item No. 4 
11/24/67 
Nov amber 24, 1967 
Frank J. Van Lahr 
p*««idant 
rke Providant B a n k 
C lacimiati, O h i o 
-v • 
D ® * r M r . V a n JLahr: 
This refers to your latter of November 9, 1967, requesting 
extension of time for the opening of your Jevis Branch to be located 
the vicinity of the intersection of Springdale Pike and Colerain Ave-
Colerain Township, Hamilton County. Chio. The reason for the 
d«lay appears reasonable and on behalf of the Board of Governors of 
Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the 
r*d«ral Reserve Bank of Cleveland has approved the time within which 
bank m a y establish this branch to June 26, 1968. 
C n the day operations are startca, will you please wire us 
the branch has teen formally opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
it 
/ /i- i 
/ 
H . W . Huning 
Vice President 
•1 
! 

4565 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(312) HA 7-2320 
November 2k, 1967 
Item No. 5 
11/24/67 
• 
Robert A. Morrow, President 
Union 2c.nl-; and Trust Company 
Ivo.iomo, Indiana ii-o^Cl 
Boar Mr. Morrow: 
On "behalf of the Hoard of Governors, «-ctin~ under 
celesated authority, this Sank has approved tne establishment 
oy your bank of a branch at Maryland Avenue and u\ S. 31 3y-Pass, 
Kokcao, Indiana, provided the branch is established within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalization of Union 
Lank and Trust Company is adequate and management is satisfactory, 
that the proposed branch will serve the needs and convenience 
of the community, and that the branch will not create an undesir-
able competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
—ft- 
- x. 
j '-I, 
/ 
• 
' ' ' 
' 
Leland Eoss 
Vice President 
^ W p 
/ 
' cc - Mr. Merritt Sherman / 
Ind. Dept. of Fin. Inst. 
Examiner's File 
ff 

C O P Y 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS 
D A L L A S . T E X A S 
7 5 2 2 2 
Item No. 6 
11/24/67 
lovsaber 2k, 1967 
J . R. Thornton, President 
State Bank and Trust Company 
San Marcos, Texas 
Danr Mr. Thornton: 
This refers to your letter of Sovsaber 2 , 1967* re-
questing approval, under the provisions of Section 2kX and 
Section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch 
(drive-in facilities) and to expend approximately 1*6,500 for 
the construction of the facilities. In addition $25,000 is 
estimated for the coat of equipment. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
of a branch (drive-in facility) by the State B u * sad trust 
Company, San Marcos, Texas, at the corner of Fredericksburg 
Hutchison Streets in San Marcos, Texas, and the expenditure 
o f approximately 1*6,500 for luproYssMnts to a parking lot and 
the construction of the facilities,-provided that the branch 
Is established within six months from the date of this letter, 
approval is granted on the basis of our findings that the 
capitalisatior is adequate, that its Msmgeaent is 
3at la factory, that the proposed branch will serve the oomvenience 
*** needs of the cosmwnity, and that the branch will not tend to 
C r®ate aa unfavorable competitive situation. 
Please furnish us advice as to the date on which opera-
tions of the proposed facilities will begin. 
Sincerely, 
Tensas B . Sullivan 
•ice President 
G c : Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 

4
5
6
7 
F e d e r a l 
R e s e r v e 
B a n k 
o
f S a n 
F r a n c i s c o 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
9 4 1 2 0 
Item No. 7 
November 24, 1967 
11/24/67 
Mr. Norman Barker, Jr., 
Executive Vice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Streat, 
Angeles, California 90054. 
Dear Mr. Barker: 
On behalf of the B ^rcf of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, ijcting\under delegated authority, 
this Bank hes * •> vroved the relocation 
bank's 
Marble M^rt^r^c C anjj&iiyOf f ice from 
University 
Avenue, Pal. Alt/<ualifo*nia, to\tew Quarters at 2600 
El Cumino Real / Pal -j Alto,>>rovided\that operations at 
the bank's existing office aVe discontinued simultaneously 
with the opening ji the office at the new location. This 
i s ^iVan with the understanding that the oper-
iotis to be conducted at tHo new location will still be 
limited to the ne^vtiatin^, processing, and servicing of 
real estate mortgage loans. 
Ii./wiil be appreciated if you will advise the 
Board of Govern rs in writing, through this bank, when 
offsets is actually established and opened for 
business at the new location. 
Very truly yours, 
{ « l f f i i 3 c l ) 
T r v l n T , . 
J e n n i n g s 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
