MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 22, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 10 Increase in margin requirements. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, November 22, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 2/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Withdrew from morning session 
attended afternoon session. 
Withdrew from morning session 
in minutes; attended afternooi 
at point indicated in minutes; 
and reentered at points indicated 
. session. 

3334 
11/22/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved publication 
f°r comment of a proposal to amend Regulation T, Credit by Brokers 
and Dealers, to clarify the commencement date of the ninety-day freeze 
penalty in connection with special cash account provisions. A copy of 
the notice published in the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved an interpretation of section 
5199 of the Revised Statutes relating to the payment of dividends by 
State member banks. A copy of the notice published in the Federal 
Register is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission requesting that puts and calls to be traded on the 
Chicago Board Options Exchange be defined as equity securities. A copy 
o f the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
With the understanding that certain changes would be made, the 
^°ard unanimously approved a letter to all Federal Reserve Banks imple-
menting a change in the processing of competitive factor reports on bank 
Merger cases. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Banks is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting denial 
November 2, 1972, of the application of Atlantic Bancorporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Bank of New Smyrna, New 
Smyrna Beach, Florida. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Charter New 
Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of the successor 

11/22/72 
-3~ 
by, merger to The First National Bank of Moravia, Moravia, New York, and 
Authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of 
the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Third National 
Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to Merchants Bank, Cleveland, Tennessee, and authorized the 
Issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Exchange Inter-
national Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to Exchange 
National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. 
Issuance of an order 
re£lecting that decision was also authorized. A copy is attached as 
ItenLjjpt 8< 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Foreign banks. 
In line with the Board's desire to achieve an 
Appropriate regulatory posture toward foreign banks operating in the 
^Uted States, and its concern regarding the interrelated problem of the 
re8ulation of U.S. banks in their overseas operations, it had been 
j 
Gcided that Governors Mitchell and Daane would represent the Board in 
discussions with foreign central banks. 
The purpose of the discussions 
W a s to (1) make the foreign central banks aware of the regulatory problems 

3 J 3 8 
11/22/72 
-4-
and issues involving the operations of foreign banks in the United States; 
a n d (2) inquire as to their attitude on the operations of foreign banks 
in the U.S. 
In a memorandum dated November 20, 1972, Governors Mitchell and 
Daane reported the tenor of the reactions received together with the 
conclusions reached as a result of discussions held with several foreign 
central banks. The Governors recommended that the Board adopt a general 
Policy that would continue to welcome foreign banking operations in the 
^•S. under nondiscriminatory regulations that would place foreign banks 
0ri an equal footing with domestic commercial banks; and that the Board 
should consider seeking legislation to achieve uniformity of regulatory 
treatment. 
The Governors noted, however, that it would be understood 
that other countries were to insure adherence to a reciprocal approach 
their dealings with foreign offices of U.S. banks. 
If the Board concurred in the foregoing proposal, the following 
^Urther steps were suggested: 
1. Formulation of an internal policy guidance 
statement on the basis of which the staff 
could explore with foreign banks operating 
in the U.S. the detailed implications of 
their policy. 
2. 
Development of a formal paper indicating the 
Board's general posture and listing the 
ensuing advantages and disadvantages to the 
operations of foreign banks in the U.S. 
This 
paper could then be circulated to the foreign 
central banks as representing the outcome of 
the discussions with them and at the same 
time permit a further opportunity for their 
comments. 

3.137 
11/22/72 
-5-
3. Preparation of a memorandum outlining the 
legal issues to be resolved in the approach 
and legislative action necessary to that 
accomplishment. 
4. Coincident with these steps, the development 
of a statement that could be made public at 
a suitable time, which would indicate the 
Board's active interest in the operations of 
foreign banks in the U.S. and that measures 
to regularize their status were under study. 
During the discussion general agreement was expressed with 
aspect to the recommendations made by Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
It 
was noted that in moving forward with this program, emphasis should be 
given to coordination with other pertinent Government agencies. 
The suggestion was also made that consideration be given to 
the organization of a task force under the chairmanship of the Federal 
Reserve and composed of representatives from other relevant Government 
agencies. 
In addition, there was a view that a System task force should 
also be contemplated. 
After further discussion the Board unanimously approved the 
recommendations, with the understanding that in the implementation of 
the proposals, consideration would be given to the comments made at 
tray's meeting. 
J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation. 
On October 26, 1972, 
t^e Board considered the question whether J. Henry Schroder Banking 
Corporation, New York, New York, was a bank for purposes of the Bank 
^o^ing Company Act. After an extended discussion, while no vote was 

33 38 
U/22/72 
-6-
taken, general support was indicated for the view that credit balances 
such as those held by J. Henry Schroder and other similar institutions, 
notably French American Banking Corporation, New York, New York, were 
rn the nature of demand deposits within the meaning of section 2(c) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act. Staff was requested to advise J. Henry 
Schroder and French American of the Board's thinking in this matter 
and to ascertain from these organizations the possible impact upon 
them of a Board ruling that each was a bank, together with the adjust-
m ents that they would be required to make to comply with such a ruling. 
It was agreed that the question would be considered further by the Board 
on November 22, 197 2. 
In a memorandum dated November 21, 1972, staff reported on devel-
opments regarding contacts with J. Henry Schroder and French American. 
staff had also discussed the matter with the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation and with staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
In 
order to obtain additional information and complete an analysis of the 
Question, staff recommended that the Board delay consideration of the 
matter for two to three weeks. 
During today's discussion general agreement was indicated with 
respect to the staff recommendation. 
Concern was expressed, however, 
about the review of the grandfathered activities of J. Henry Schroder 
inking Corporation which was required prior to January 1, 1973, by the 
amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
It was pointed out 

3339 
H/22/72 
-7-
that staff should take steps to effectively deal with the satisfaction 
°f that requirement. 
The Board then unanimously approved the staff 
rCommendation, with the understanding that the matter would be consid-
ered further by the Board within the next three weeks. 
First National City Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated Novem-
k e r 15, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
aPproval of the application of First National City Corporation, New 
York, New York, to acquire indirectly additional shares of Arrendadora 
Sanamex, S.A, de C.V. , Mexico City, Mexico, and to retain shares of 
fianamex acquired indirectly prior to the 1970 amendments to the Bank 
folding Company Act. A draft letter in that form was attached. 
Special procedures had been developed for handling applications 
First National City Corporation and related institutions as a result 
the Board's concern with respect to the equity capital position of 
First National City Bank. However, the Corporation had expressed to 
Board its intentions to increase the bank's capital to an appropriate 
level. Therefore, Mr. Leavitt today recommended that applications sub-
mitted by First National City be processed in accordance with the Board's 
n°rmal procedures. 
The Board unanimously approved the letter to First National City 
together with the recommendation made by Mr. Leavitt. A copy of the letter 
l s attached as Item No. 9. 

3340 
11/22/72 
-8-
Chairman Burns and Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at 
this point. 
Massachusetts Bay Bancorp. 
In a memorandum dated November 2, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of Massachusetts Bay 
Bancorp., Inc., Lawrence, Massachusetts, to become a bank holding com-
Pany through acquisition of sha res of the successor by merger to (1) Bay 
State National Bank, Lawrence, Massachusetts; and (2) First Bank and 
Trust Company of Haverhill, Haverhill, Massachusetts. 
Other related 
documentation included a memorandum dated November 16, 1972, from the 
banking Markets Section, relating the views of the Research Department 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston in support of their recommendation 
f°r denial of the application. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized the 
lssuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 10. 
Hamilton Bancshares. 
In a memorandum dated November 13, 1972, 
t" h 
e division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended approval of the application of Hamilton Bancshares, Inc., 
chattanooga, Tennessee, to acquire shares of Hardeman County Savings Bank, 
^°livar, Tennessee. 
After discussion it was understood that staff would provide addi-
tional documentation relating to certain aspects of the application. 
Governor Daane reentered the meeting at this point. 

'Vis* ^ 
O « > -X 
11/22/72 
-9-
Northwest Bancorporation. 
In late 1971 the Board considered 
the application of Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
to acquire shares of Farmers and Merchants State Bank of Stillwater, 
Stillwater, Minnesota. 
In a memorandum dated November 1, 1971, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended denial of the application. The Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis and its Bank Examinations Department had recommended approval, 
while the Bank's Research Department had recommended denial. Action on 
the application was deferred pending a public hearing, which was held 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis early in 1972. 
In a memorandum dated November 15, 1972, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation again presented the application for the Board's 
consideration. 
The recommendations of the Board and Reserve Bank staff 
remained unchanged from those made to the Board in 1971. 
After discussion during which three of the Board members present 
favored approval and three supported denial, action on the application 
was deferred until all Board members could participate. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
3 :15 p.m. with the following Board members and staff in attendance: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson,Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 

3342 
11/22/72 
-10-
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Margin requirements. 
The principal documentation for today's 
discussion consisted of various statistical data prepared by the Division 
Research and Statistics which referred to recent and historical move-
meits in stock prices, stock market credit, and other related items. 
Effective December 6, 1971, the Board had reduced the margin 
requirement from 65 per cent to 55 per cent. Following that action, 
m a rgin debt had increased significantly throughout the spring and early 
summer of 1972. As stock prices began to edge downward in early August, 
m a rgin credit began to level off, although recent increases had occurred 
stock prices and there were indications that this rise might continue 
since the outlook for sustained economic growth and rising profits in 
the coming months was considered favorable. 
During the discussion Governor Mitchell observed that although 
L 
G believed the need for an increase in margin requirements was not far 
ahead, recent data had not yet indicated an upward trend in margin credit 

n 
fj'-jvJi 
11/22/72 
-11-
and he therefore would prefer to await more positive indications of 
an expansion in margin credit prior to adjusting margin requirements 
upward. 
Governors Daane and Bucher expressed views similar to those 
stated by Governor Mitchell. They too believed that for a number of 
reasons, including a likely rise in margin debt as the stock market 
c°ntinued to strengthen, an increase in margin requirements would soon 
he required. 
However, they preferred to make the adjustment at a time 
when the indications of an increase in margin credit were more conclusive. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he was not in favor of an increase 
margin requirements at this time on the basis of the reasoning already 
e*pressed. 
Specifically, he believed that the statistics actually avail-
at>le did not show any significant increase in stock market credit in 
recent months and thus did not justify an increase in margin requirements 
a t this time. 
Instead, he would prefer to wait for the figures on margin 
credit due in mid-December. 
In his opinion, changes in margin require-
ments should not be geared to the behavior of stock prices--but to the 
actual use of stock market credit to purchase or carry securities. 
Chairman Burns then related that he had spoken with Chairman 
Casey 0f th e Securities and Exchange Commission concerning an adjust-
II1Grit: in margin requirements. 
Chairman Casey had noted that presently 
s°me brokerage firms were experiencing financial problems. 
In that regard, 
C^airman Casey believed that, to the extent that an increase in margin 

3314 
11/22/72 
-12-
requirements might reduce the volume of trading in the stock market, 
all firms would be affected adversely, particularly those firms that 
were experiencing problems. 
Chairman Burns stated that he nevertheless favored an increase 
margin requirements today. Although there was presently little data 
t o indicate current expansion in margin credit, he believed that in 
view of the recent and prospective increases in stock prices, such an 
expansion was likely to occur. 
He therefore favored a preventive 
approach. 
In his view, it would be preferable at this point to forestall 
the excessive use of credit in the stock market rather than to allow such 
U s e to occur before taking action. 
In addition, he believed that an 
action to increase margin requirements at this juncture would serve as 
a further indication that the Federal Reserve was concerned with 
restraining inflationary developments. 
Governor Robertson also was in favor of an increase today. He 
concurred in the view that the Board should act to prevent an excessive 
use of credit in the stock market, and that this preventive approach also 
had merit in that it would tend to dampen inflationary expectations. 
Additiona lly, he observed that in January 1946 the Board acted to increase 
Margin requirements to 100 per cent in an effort to forestall an expansion 
margin credit. 
He indicated that this action served to help limit the 
extent of the rise in stock prices early in the year and also to remove 
the pressure of forced liquidation in the decline that occurred in the 

o» ^ l-O 
H/22/72 
-13-
fall of that year, thereby contributing to greater long-run stability 
in the stock market and the general economy. 
Ensuing discussion centered on the same-day substitution rule. 
On July 12, 1972, the Board acted to withdraw the same-day substitution 
Privilege from accounts with a net equity status below 40 per cent. At 
that time it had been understood that at a later date the Board might 
consider raising the figure above 40 per cent. However, support 
developed against taking any action today with regard to the same-day 
substitution rule, particularly since the new rule had not taken effect 
until September 1972, and therefore there had been insufficient time in 
which to gauge its impact effectively. Also, there was concern that in 
the circumstances a simultaneous adjustment in margin requirements and 
the same-day rule might be viewed as a major policy action and lead to 
undesirable market repercussions. 
In a final review of positions, Governors Mitchell and Daane 
indicated that while they would not dissent from an action to approve, 
they had reservations with respect to taking action at this time. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he would vote against an action to 
increase margin requirements today for the reasons that he had expressed. 
The Board thereupon, Governor Brimmer dissenting, amended the 
Supplements to Regulation G (Securities Credit by Persons Other than 
fianks, Brokers, or Dealers), Regulation T (Credit by Brokers and Dealers), 

3348 
11/22/72 
-14-
and Regulation U (Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or 
Carrying Margin Stocks), effective November 24, 1972, to increase 
margin requirements for purchasing or carrying stocks from 55 per cent 
to 65 per cent, with a corresponding change in the required deposit 
short sales. 
No change was made in the 50 per cent margin require-
ment for purchasing or carrying convertible bonds or in the 70 per 
cent "retention requirement" applicable to undermargined accounts. A 
Press release, a draft of which was distributed during the meeting, was 
S£££oved unanimously. Attached under Item No. 11 are copies of the 
Press release and of the notice published in the Federal Register. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item Vo: 
V 
11/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR PART 2201 
[Reg. T] 
CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
Ninety-day Restrict ion 
in Special Cash Account 
The Board of Governors proposes to amend Part 220 (Ragu-
T) by making a minor change in language within subsection (3) 
Of c 
action 220.4(c) to clarify that the computation of the 90 day 
ft 
e o zQ begins with the trade date of the sale of a security with 
t0v-Pect to which the customer has not previously paid for the cost 
Of i.k 
purchase within the allotted 7 business days, rather than with 
the •-..^j 
, 
^ a c e oats of such purchase. 
This change would be accomplished 
by „ii . c 
n*«.'ttttg the prepositional phrase "fiuring the preceding 90 days" 
* 
first sentence of subsection (8) from within the body to the 
Ui the portion of the sentence preceding the proviso. 
The text of the proposed amendment reads as follows: 
" 
- SPECIAL ACCOUNTS 
it 
it 
it 
it 
ic 
(c) 
Special cash account. 
it 
* 
* 
"k 
it 
(8) Unless funds sufficient for the purpose are already in 
c count, no security other than on exempted security shall be pur-
1 tor, or sold to, any customer in a special cash account with 
thQ _ 
v©a!.tor if any security other than ar< exempted security has been 
h 
' 
by such customer in eveb an account, and then, for «r.y reason 

3318 
- 2 -
whatever> without having been previously paid for in full by the cus-
tomer, the security has been sold in the account or delivered out to 
broker or dealer during the preceding 90 days: 
Provided, lhat an 
apprcpriate committee of n national securities exchange or a national 
Securities association, on application of the creditor, may authorize 
© creditor to disregard for the purposes of this subparagraph any 
given instance of the type therein described if the committee is satis-
fied that both creditor and customer are acting in good faith and that 
c^rcuiustances warrant such authorization. For the purposes of this 
Ti \ V 
"Paragraph, the cancelation of a transaction, otherwise than to 
Co*rect an error, shall be deemed to constitute a sale. The creditor 
y disregard for the purposes of this subparagraph a saie without 
*°r payment provided full cash payment is received within trie period 
b r i b e d by subparagraph (2) of this paragraph and the customer has 
^ 
Withdrawn the proceeds of sale on or before the day on which such 
(and si so fir.al payment of any check received in that conr.ee-
is received. The creditor may so disregard a delivery cf a 
t SCiJ.w «. 
^i-'-'y t.o another broker or dealer provided such delivery was for 
into a special cash account which the latter broker or dealer 
talus for the same customer and in which account there are already 
Si.1 f*: j 
4,*ciont funds to pay for the security so purchased; ana tor the pur-
of determining in that connection the status of a customer's account 
ftfc , 
Mother broker or dealer. a creditor may rely upon a written state-
**c ^'-vich tie accepts in good faith from such other broker or dealer. 

_ -3349 
- 3 -
To aid in the consideration by the Board of this proposed 
Qlncndmcntj interested persons are invited to suboit relevant data, 
views, or arguments ir. writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors 
the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 
20551, to be re-
vived riot later than December 22, 1972. 
Such material will be made 
P l i a b l e fo r inspection and copying upon request, except as provided 
*n $ 261.1(a) of the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information, 
By order of the Board ot Governors, November 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSFAL] 

Item No. 
TITLE 1?.— BANKS AMD BttiKKtG 
11/22/72 
CHAPTER 7.X--FEDERAL KV.S12RVf SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART ?..r>0~-MISCKI..LANEO'JS INTERPRETATIONS 
Dividends of Strafe 
&50. 
-Dlvidandaof State memfc.e r J ^ o k ^ r J l ^ 
-'' 
(a) Sect lor. 5199(b) of: the Revised Statutes of the United States 
(l2 Pvs,c. CO), as made applicable to State member banks by the 6th 
N ^ g c a p h of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 324) ? 
I'^vides that: 
"The aporovnl of [the Board of Governors] shaM be required 
V: the total'of all dividends declared by [a State member bank] 
i\\ any calendar year shall exceed tbs total of its net prorits 
of that year copbine.d with its retained net profits of the 
pveeedi4, tvo years, less any required transfers to surplus or 
a fund for: the retirement of any preferred stock.-" 
(b) The term "net profits" is defined in Section 3199(c) Co 
"the remainder of all earnings from current operations plus actual 
r*c»verles on loons and investments and other assets, after deducting 
f'*0Ci the total thereof all current operating expenses, actual losses, 
dividends on preferred stock, i f any, and ail Federal and State 
(c) For the purpose of employing a uniform means for the 
dfe^^S.netlon of net profits before dividends cm common stock, as required 
faction 3199(b), it is the Board's view that net profitc shall be the 
^ n t 
r>f Mllet <.ncoiac« ^te^ained iu accordance with Che Report of Income 

. 3351 
(^H Pcinn 107a), adjusted ay set forth hereinafter, The statutory adjust-
ments prescribed by Section 5199 require the recognition of actual losses 
t,li(J recoveries on loans and investments and other assets recorded in 
^aerve accounts and the elimination of corresponding provisions Cor 
C!Jci* items entered against income. Further, to ascertain net. profits 
^ H U b l e for common stock cash dividendst net profits for the current 
«nd preceding two years shall be adjusted for preferred stock dividend 
oc £ ; c c r u ed and for required transfers to surplus or a fund for the 
"
o
f 
preferred stock, 
(d> In light of the prevalent use of accrual accounting by 
It also may be appropriate to recognise ''pro forma" iacoius tar, 
fc i 4 
vJuH%oant.s in the determination of net profits. The adjustment, if any, 
W 
related to the amount of difference between provisions for losses 
(yKYc Reversal oC provisions) included in -che determination of "net income" 
^ 
r^tual net losreo or recoveries incorporated in the Section 13199(b) 
tf,*Culat?,ons. 
II; the "pro forma" xrrco.r.e tax adjustment amounts to less 
" 'tn five per cent of net profit?, before such adjustment, it need not 
(e) The following guideline schedule sets forth the most common 
^a.fcnantp required in calculating net profits for Section 5199(b) 

3352 
-3 
^
f
t
-
E
H
,
-
'
-
M
-
^ 
0 n 5 1 9 9 (b). 
income (Schedule A) 
, t J , 
*ddj (a) Recoveries credited to reserve accounts (Schedule l>) 
(r> Provision for loan losses (Schedule A) 
(c) Any ether provisions charged against income (Schedule A) 
constituting additions to reserve accounts (Schedule D) 
(d) p r o forma income tax adjustment (representing decrease ol 
applicable income tax) 
Sub-total 
N.Uct; 
L05-.es rharmed to reserve accounts (Schedule D) 
(b) Preferred stock dividends paid or accrued Cor the period 
(c) Pr:o forma income tax adjustment (representing increase o, 
applicable income tax) Sub-total 
Net 
Pi'oiits as defined 
^uctj (a) Required transfers to surplus or a fund for the retirement 
of preferred stock 
<b> Common stock dividends paid or accrued lor the period 
Sub-total 
Valued net profits available for common stock dividends. 
E 1. Schedule refe-rtces are to supervisory Report or Income 
(FU Forrii 10 7a). 
, 
2. Contra elamentb to applicable captions should be siiown in 
r»arenthesis . 
(f) The above schedule lor the determination of net profits will 
* U o W employed by the Comptroller c<: the Currency and its use will be 
^ f o r a r:ov 
niCmber banks. 
( e ) Special factors afieUin- net profits, such as charge-effo 
0t b«nk premises tn excess of normal annual depreciation or unusual 
losses, Mill be weighed by the Board in consideration of requests 
b y SUto rusher banks to declare dividends which would be prohibited by 
^ t i c n 5199(b) without Beard approval. 
Accordingly, any unusual charge-
Of >' 
lH should be presented for Board consideration. 

3353 
(h) The objective of Section 5199 is to restrict the payment 
T)f 
iGac]s where such payments would result in dissipating needed 
CQPltal fuads. The! law is designed to prevent the declaration of 
^'tdeuds which are not justified by current and recent accumulated 
which would result in a weakened and under-capitalized bank 
v,ru1 violate safe and sound banking practices, 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S,C. 60} 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Kichael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of. the Board 

: 3354 
BOARD DF GDVERNOSS 
Item No. 3 
DP- THE 
11/22/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N . 
D . 
C . 
2055! 
w&Sf. 
APtl^ERr FflUIA*. linHRrSPDNPCNCE. 
v r > • ' 
to t h e a o a u r< 
1 .'V KV.i 
November 2.8, 1972 
frta Securities and Exchange Commission 
J°° North Capitol Street, N. W. 
Ashing ton, D. C. 
20549 
Attention: 
Mr. Bradford Cook, Director 
Division of Market Regulation 
Gentiemeu: 
Re: 
Definition of "Equity Security" (15 U.S.C. 
J M J 2 1 1 
In conjunction with the responsibilities of the Board of 
Governors under Section. 7 of the Securities Exchange Act cf J 934 
V the Act"), staff of: the Board 
presently examining the need for 
•t'lo.s and regulations to prevent the excessive use of credit for the 
d e b a s e or carrying of "put11 or "call" options which would be traded 
;n a proposed new national securities exchange, the Chicago Board 
ilti.ons Exchange (CBOE), if the registration of such 
c::cUange were 
0 
approved by the Commission. 
A 
The Board of Governors understands that staff or. the 
^ n i aission be'Jj.eve the "call" options which the exchea^e initially 
saa to trade would be classifies as "securities", and rh.. board 
*°ucurs in that classification. 
A question, however, has arisen as 
c A e t h e r such securities would be classified as "equity securities" 
bei 
the Board to regulate the amount of credit that might 
^ 
extended by a bank on them as collateral. 
Section 7(d) of the 
status that the Board's margin rules "shall not apply . . . <P) 
a lean by a bank on a security other than an equity security . , 
f:.. # 
"Puts" and "calls" are not specifically mentioned in the de~ 
it ion of equity security in Section 3(a) (11) of the Act; however, 
. ^ Coiunission is empowered to include within that term "any other 
'-cur;ty which the Commission, shall deem to be or similar natrr?. and 

B O A R D 
r;»F E D V E H N D R f i 
O F THF- 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
3355 
consider necessary or appropriate, by such rules and regulations as 
3-t may prescribe in the public interest or for the protection of in-
ve'B"tors, to treat as an equity security." 
In order that any regulations which the Board of Governors 
^O'jJa issue in connection with the extension of credit to purchase 
carry publicly traded options that are registered on a national 
fcXeliange, wight be both comprehensive and explicit, it is requested 
'•hat the Commission, if i.t should determine that it is appropriate 
£rant registration to the CP.OE as a national securities exchange, 
at least for the purposes of Section 7 of the Act, the fol-
-°wing as an equity security: 
"any put, call, or combination thereof, which 
entitles the holder thereof, before a stated 
expiration date, to purchase or sell an. equity 
security at a stated price." 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
3356 
Item No. 4 
11/22/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
S-2222 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E 5 P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 29, 1972 
By letter dated Au-ust 8, 1967, (FRLS 2600.03) the Reserve 
Bankg vere informed that the services of research personnel should be 
u tUised when a report on competitive factors was being prepared in 
rGsponse to a reouest from either the Comptroller of the Currency or 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The advantages of bringing 
t o bear the expertise of economists were believed such as to justify 
t h* duplication of work this entailed. The System benefited signifi-
cantly from this procedure, but such duplication can no longer be 
justified in the light of the increasing work load. 
In the future all reports on competitive factors should be 
S p a r e d by either the Research Department or the bank supervision 
A c t i o n (e.g. the Examination Departments of the Federal Reserve^ 
Banks). However, the department oreparing the report should notify 
other department of pending requests; and the other department, on 
l t a own motion in anprcwiate circumstances, or on request, should 
ar^Iyze an application to provide the Board with a memorandum and con-
tusion with respect to competitive factors. At the Board, competitive 
reports will be prepared by the Division of Supervision and 
*eBul3tion, That Division will inform the Banking Markets Section of 
Division of Research and Statistics of receipt of requests and that 
8°ction will prepare an analysis when appropriate. 
THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND VICE PRESIDENTS 
Very truly yours 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
CHARGE C? BRANCHES 

3357 
Item No. 5 
11/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
Atlantic Bancorporation, Jacksonville, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f o r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to 
acquire not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of Bank of New 
Stnyrna, New Smyrna Beach, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in accord-
a n c e with § 3(b) of the Act and the time for filing comments and views 
h a s expired. The Board has considered the application and all comments 
teceived In the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 22 banks with aggregate deposits of about 
$ 7 / 
A 
million, representing 4.6 per cent of the total commercial bank 
dePo8lt8 in the State, and is the fifth largest banking organization and 
batlk folding company in Florida. 
(All banking data are ss of December 31, 
l97i and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions 
^Proved by the Board through October 31, 1972.) Applicant's acquisition 
B*nk ($24.1 million in deposits) would not represent a significant 
lncrease in Applicant's share of total deposits in the State. 
Applicant presently controls two banks in the Daytona Beach 
Q n k i ng market, approximated by Daytona Beach and the coastal area of 
v 0 ] Usia County, and holds 19.4 per cent of total market deposits. 

.3358 
-2-
the largest of two banks in New Smyrna Beach, also competes in this 
banking market and controls 9.5 per cent of total market deposits. 
If 
^ie application were approved, Applicant would become the largest banking 
°rganization in the market and would control 28.9 per cent of total 
dePosits. 
Although Bank and Applicant's Daytona Beach subsidiaries are 
15 miles apart and separated by the Halifax River, numerous bridges con-
n e ct Daytona Beach with the coastal portions of Volusia County and make 
b°th areas equally accessible to area residents. The Daytona Beach 
battking market is highly concentrated with 75 per cent of total market 
dePosits being held by the four largest banking organizations; 
approval 
o f this application would aggravate this already high level of concen-
ttation. Bank is the second largest independent bank in the market. 
It 
is Specially attractive as a potential affiliate of a bank holding com-
P a n y taking its initial entry into the area. 
The acquisition of Bank by a banking organization not presently 
presented in the Daytona Beach market would have a salutary effect on 
th 
e listing high degree of deposit concentration present in this market. 
6 ®oard concludes, therefore, that the competitive factors relating to 
th< 
8 application are adverse; that consummation of the proposed trans-
ition would (1) eliminate some existing competition between Applicant's 
^ t o n a Beach subsidiaries and Bank; (2) eliminate a banking alternative 
ltl this concentrated market; (3) increase deposit concentration among 
t h e four largest organizations from 74.9 per cent to 84.4 per cent of 
t0tal- deposits in the Daytona area; and, most importantly, (4) remove 

3359 
-3-
as a potential means of entry by other organizations not presently 
^presented in this market. Accordingly, competitive considerations 
require denial of this application unless the anticompetitive effects 
o f the proposal are outweighed by benefits to the public in meeting the 
c°avenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
The financial condition and managerial resources and future 
prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks appear generally satis-
£ 
o ry. The financial condition and managerial resources of Bank are 
°nsidered to be generally satisfactory, and prospects for its future 
g t o wth and development are favorable; its deposits increased nearly 
53 n 
Per cent from 1967 to 1971. Thus, banking factors are consistent with 
PPtoval but provide no significant support for such action. 
The banking needs of the residents of the Daytona Beach area 
ar to be adequately served at the present time by existing facilities; 
£ou 
°f the five largest banking institutions in the State have banks in 
relevant market. Consummation of the proposed transaction would have 
Utti 
Le impact on the convenience and needs of banking customers in the 
aince Applicant proposes no new service not already being offered by 
°ther 
area banks. Accordingly, considerations relating to the convenience 
eeds of the communities to be served do not outweigh the adverse 
^Petitive effects of the proposal. 
It is the Board's judgment that 
Novation of the proposed acquisition would not be in the public 
int. 
*erest and the application should be denied. 

I 3360 
-4-
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for the 
teasons summarized above. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
V o t l n g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Btil 
arid
ai^r» Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 

3361 
Item No. 6 
11/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEIi 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, a bank holding 
Coiapany within the meaning of the Eank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
t h e Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
a c^ire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
the successor by merger to The First National Bank of Moravia, Moravia, 
York ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no 
S^ n i^icance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting 
^Ures of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the 
SuCc 
essor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the 
Shar*s of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
^ t S o n s to submit comments and viewsy has been given in accordance with 
* 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
the 
G Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
of 
factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in New York, 
tr°ls 11 banks with aggregate deposits of $4.9 billion representing 5.2 per 
the total domestic deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
B a n U n g data are as of June 30, 1972, with the exception of data for the 
market which are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding company 
tDlations and acquisitions approved through October 31, 1972). 
Consummation 
Of th proposed acquisition of Bank, with deposits of $17.3 million, would 

3362 
- 2 -
iacrease Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits within the State only 
minimally, would not change its Statewide ranking, and would not result in 
a significant increase in the concentration of banking resources in New York. 
Bank, the third largest of six banks represented in the Auburn 
area controls 15.4 per cent of market deposits.- 
Four of the six banks 
a r e affiliated with holding companies including the two largest which 
c°ntrol 67 per cent of market deposits. Applicant's closest subsidiary to 
i s 
Syracuse, and the nearest offices of these two banks are 29 miles 
aPart. Although Applicant's subsidiary closest to Bank derives some loans 
f r 
o m Bank's service area, the bulk of these represent loan participations 
Bank or sale of loans from Bank. 
It appears that no meaningful 
listing competition would be eliminated by consummation of the proposal. 
Urtlier, it appears unlikely that significant future competition between 
a nk and Applicant's subsidiaries would be eliminated by consummation 
of ti 
Lue proposal in light of the distances separating Applicant's subsidiaries 
Bank, and the orientation of Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank 
the Syracuse market. 
While Applicant could enter the market by 
estahlishment of a de novo bank, such entry does not appear to be 
Part 
«ith 
Particularly attractive. Thus, competitive considerations are consistent 
approval. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Pplicant and its subsidiary banks appear to be satisfactory. Applicant will 
pJr<>Vid< 
Auburn market includes all of Cayuga County. 
le Bank with needed financial resources and managerial expertise and 

3363 
-3-
is committed to adding $26.5,000 to Bank's equity capital. In addition to the 
^crease in equity capital, affiliation with Applicant will enable Bank to 
^ e t t e r serve its customers by offering new services. 
Although the services, 
SUch as a check credit plan, no-passbook savings accounts, and electronic 
d a t a processing services, are available elsewhere in the market, Bank 
be an alternative source of such services. 
Thus, banking factors 
uPport approval and considerations related to the convenience and needs 
0f ^ e communities involved also lend some weight for approval. 
It is 
B°ard's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
nc* ^ a t the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
b0ris summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
"f°re the thirtieth calendar Jay following the effective date of this Order 
r (k) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
eserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of G o v e r n o r s e f f e c t i v e November 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Ilichael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Jf(t ^oting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
cllell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. 

: 3364 
Item No. 7 
11/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THIRD NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Third National Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, a bank holding 
Co*Pany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
aC(3uire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
th 
e successor by merger to the Merchants Bank, Cleveland, Tennessee ("Bank"). 
bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a 
^ n s to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
e Proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization is treated 
a s t k e p r 0 p o g e d acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
^ersons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
°f ^ e factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in Tennessee, 
°ntrols one bank, Third National Bank in Nashville, with deposits of 
$54o i 
•1 million representing 6.2 per cent of the total commercial bank 
ep°sits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971 
^ss otherwise indicated.) 
Consummation of the proposal herein would 
nctease its proportion of State deposits by only .39 per cent and accordingly 
u not result in a significant increase in the concentration of banking 
urces in Tennessee. 

3365 
- 2 -
Bank ($33.2 million in deposits)-^ is the second largest of three 
independent banks located in the Bradley County banking market and holds 
^Proximately 34.6 per cent of deposits in that area. Applicant's nearest 
subsidiary office to Bank is 175 miles to the north of Cleveland. 
The 
record indicates that there is no significant existing competition between 
Bank and Applicant and, further, that it is unlikely that such competition 
would develop in the future in view of the distances involved, the many 
intervening banks, and the restrictive branching laws of Tennessee. 
The 
Board notes that Applicant's proposed acquisition would represent its 
initial entry into the Bradley County market. On the basis of the record 
before it, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposal would 
n°t have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant as well as 
Bank are generally satisfactory while that of Applicant's subsidiary is only 
f a i r- 
Future prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary are favorable 
atlcl those of Bank are regarded as good. 
Although the banking needs 
Bradley County appear adequately served at the present time, Applicant 
Pr°Poses to provide accounts receivable and factoring services and improve 
fi 
**k!s trust and data processing services. These considerations are 
C°n8istent with approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
ttansaction is in the public interest and that the application should 
b e aPproved. 

3366 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
teas°ns summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
kefore the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
Unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
^deral Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
ISEAL] 
^ 
Noting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
tchellt Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan'and Bucher. 

3367 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o # 
8 
11/22/77 
EXCHANGE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Exchange International Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, has 
aPpIied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding 
c°mpany through acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
^ess directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to 
ttle Exchange National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois ("Exchange 
Bank"), 
T h e b a n k i n t Q 
Exchange Bank is to be merged has no 
s ignifi c a n c e e x c e p t a s a m eans to facilitate the acquisition of all 
Votit*g shares of Exchange Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisi-
n of the successor organization is treated herein as the pro-
v e d acquisition of Exchange Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
*nterested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
°Ccordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
a hj 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
9 tld nil 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
*Press purpose of acquiring Exchange Bank which has aggregate 
deP°aits of $328.4 million. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 
19 7 •» \ Since Applicant has no present operations or subsidiaries, 

~ 3368 
-2-
it: appears that consummation of the proposal would not significantly 
affect existing or potential competition, nor have an adverse effect 
other banks in the area. Therefore competitive considerations are 
consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial condition of Applicant, its management, and 
future prospects are dependent on those same conditions in Exchange 
Bank, The management of Exchange Bank is considered to be capable, 
g n d its financial condition is deemed to be generally satisfactory 
in view of Applicant's commitment to inject additional equity capital 
i a t 0 the bank within the next twelve months. Prospects for Applicant 
a n d Exchange Bank are favorable, and banking factors are, therefore, 
C°asistent with approval of the application. 
The consummation of this 
Pr°posed formation is not expected to provide any immediate benefits 
to the community. However, the expanded and improved services, which 
a t e Planned under the more flexible corporate structure, would ulti-
tnately benefit the public. Considerations relating to the conve-
Hjp 
n ce and needs of the community to be served are consistent with, 
a j. t 
aa lend some weight toward approval of the application. 
It is the 
B°ard's judgment that the transaction would be in the public interest 
and m 
tnat the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 

_ 3369 
-3-
t^ts Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 22, 
1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
tchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

f i i i p l ^ i 
''kir&y 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
It(;m 
9 
or THE 
11/22/72-
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
V / A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D O R E S 5 
O T F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 5, 1972 
National City Corporation 
Park Avenue 
York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 8, 1972, as amended 
l n your letter of July 7, 1972, the Board of Governors grants consent, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, as amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, 
;°r ycur Corporation, ("FNCC"), to continue to hold, directly or 
*r'^irectly, 40 per cent oC the capital stock of Arrendaaora Banamex, 
•A. de C.V., ("Banamex"), Mexico City, Mexico, which were acquired 
^ lor to the enactment of the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding 
'•'•pany Act of 1956, and to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, 
j!u additional 60,000 series "B" shares of the capital stock of 
^anasiex, at a cost of approximately $480,000, provided such shares 
M 0 acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
, . 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Sec-
or°U 
> Banamex shall confine its activities to international 
r foreign banking and other international or foreign financial 
°P««tion B. 
^ 
The foregoing consent is granted on the condition that 
q ? i n v e s t m e n t will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
^t-lincs as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates, 
It is understood that the shares of Banamex are to be ac-
t 
through your who1ly-owned subsidiary, Citicorp Leasing Inter-
d
atiot\al, ("CLI"). 
Your letter of June 3, 1972, did'not request a 
germination that the continued holding by your Corner anion of the 
S fj .V v. 
" 
, c e s of CLI would ba appropriate under Section 4(c)(13) of the Act 
. 1 this consent is not to be construed as constituting such a 
ete*®ination. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3371 
Item No. 10 
11/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MASSACHUSETTS BAY BANCORP,, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Back Holding Company 
Massachusetts Bay Bancorp., Inc., Lawrence, Massachusetts, 
h a s applied for the Board's prior approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
H°lding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of the formation of a bank 
Elding company through the acquisition of the successor by merger to 
fiay State National Bank, Lawrence ("Bay Bank"), and (2) First Bank 
a n d Trust Company of Haverhill, Haverhill ("First Bank"), both located 
Massachusetts. The bank into which Bay Bank and First Bank are to 
mGrged is a means to facilitate the acquisition of voting shares of 
and First Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition is 
tte 
Bank 
ated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bay Bank 
a M Wr.t Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
t h e Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
in li8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
Acquisition of Bay Bank (deposits of about $56 million) and 
°f fw 
l r st Bank (deposits of about $5 million) would result in Applicant 
c°Hing .5 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in 
sachusetts and would not result in a significant increase in the 

3372 
-2-
c°ncentration of banking resources in the State/"* 
Though both Bay 
Banlc a n d First Bank are located in the Lawrence-Haverhill SMSA, there 
aPPOars to be little direct competition between the two banks. More-
0 V e r, there is little probability of competition increasing in the 
f u t 
U r G between the two since the Comptroller of the Currency has 
ecently turned down a request by Bay Bank to open a branch office 
ill 
Haverhill area and First Bank, due to its size and apparent 
n cHnatio n, is not likely to branch. The combination of Bay Bank 
n d First Bank would increase concentration slightly in the Lawrence-
a v erhiH SMSA. Bay Bank has approximately 17.1 per cent of deposits 
in ^ e area, and First Bank has 1.7 per cent of deposits, so that the 
siting bank would have 18.8 per cent of deposits of commercial 
a n k s in the Lawrence-Haverhill SMSA. However, given the fact that 
largeat bank in the area has something over 50 per cent of de-
Posito ... 
c-> there is little likelihood that the resulting bank would be 
abie tc, establish any dominant stance in the SMSA. In fact, approval 
of 
e application could result in some increase in competition in 
Haverhill portion of the SMSA by permitting Bay Bank to compete 
^th f h o , 
L a e largest organization in that town. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Ap-
PiiCa nc> since it is a recently formed corporation, depend primarily 
t ^ - j ^ ^ 
banking data are as of December 31, 1971, except for the data 
I*8 to the 
Lawrence-Haverhill Standard Metropolitan Statistical 
V'SMSA"), which is of June 30, 1970. 

3373 
-3-
°n ^ e prospects of Bay Bank. These prospects are regarded as generally 
Satisfactory. The managerial resources of First Bank should improve through 
filiation with Applicant, since Applicant through Bay Eank will be able 
to Provide greater management depth and continuity than First Bank otherwise 
WouI<i be able to provide for itself. For this reason, banking factors lend 
SuPPort for approval of the application. Considerations relating to the 
c°nvenience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent with 
aPProval of the application. The Board finds that the proposed acquisition 
ls 
the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application 
is approved for the 
as°ns summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
t e f o re the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
S U c h Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Re 
Se-rve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective November 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
V 
i n6 f o r this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, and Governors Mitchell, 
> Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Daane. 

v , 
-
tlll|\\ 
IrJJpMll t l 
$ II; I I 
Item No. 11 
p 
11/22/72 
immediate release 
November 22, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
^teased the initial margin requirement for purchasing or carrying 
8tockg from 55 per cent to 65 per cent, effective Friday, November 24. 
Federal Reserve margin requirements eet the minimum down 
^ytneut that must be made to purchase margin securities. Under a 65 
ppv. 
cent margin, a purchaser is required to pay 65 per cent of the 
chase price and may obtain credit for the remaining 35 per cent. 
The increase in margin wan adopted under authority granted cc 
the 
^oard in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to prevent the excessive 
credit to finance securities transactions. 
In making the change, 
the p-. 
Doard ncted that margin debt had increased sharply over the past year 
nr8it"t debt at brokers and dealers has risen about $3 billion since 
ile 
1971, and the amount outstanding at the end of October was $7.8 
* J-0r'» a record level for margin debc of this type- 
At banks, loans 
for ... 
purpose of purchasing or carrying margin securities increased bv 
than $330 million since November 1971. 
The Board also noted that recent behavior of the stock market 
Rested that the use of margin credit, following a levelling off in 
"Uiflxuor, was again in process of expanding. Further rapid increases 
in 
credit could stimulate inflationary expectations. 
V?;> Jay"s action in applicable to new extensions of credit by 
ravl dealars (Regulation T) and loans by banks and other lenders 

_ 3375 
^Regulations U and G respectively) for the purpose of purchasing or 
d r y i n g stocks registered on a national stock exchange or named in the 
Boavd's over-the-counter margin list. 
At. the same time, the Board increased the required deposit on 
Bh°rt sales from 55 per cent to 65 per cent, also effective Friday. No 
was made in the 50 Per cent margin requirement for purchasing or 
d r y i n g convertible bonds or in the 70 per cent "retention requirement" 
^at applies to undermanned accounts. This latter requirement specifies 
portion of the proceeds of a sale of securities that must be retained 
l* a margin account if the equity dees not match the initial margin re-
tirement. 
The initial mar-in requirement was last changed on December 6, 
v:hen It was reduced from 65 per cent to 55 per cent. 
-0-

3378 
C o 
TV 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKIHG 
CEAPT2R II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. G, T, U] 
Maximum Loan Value of Stocks 
Parts 207, 220, and 221 of Title 12 are amended as follows: 
PART 207—SECURITIES CREDIT BY PERSONS 
OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, CR DEALERS 
X. Effective November 24, 1972, section 207 „5 (a.) (the Supplement 
e8ulation G) is amended to read as follows: 
P lenient. 
(a) Maximum loan va.) mc of narpiry src^itios, For the purpose 
,J/«1, the maximum loan value of any margin security, except 
vr-ible securities subject to § 207.1(d), shall be 35 per cent of 
its c"a*rent market value, as determined by any reasonable method. 
PART 220—CREDIT BY BROKERS AilD DEALERS 
2. Effective November 24, 1972, section 220.3(a)(1) and (A) 
(the s, 
'JP?lement to Regulation T) is amended to read as follows: 
S 22Q o 
n 
vw .^iiPic^ient. 
(a) Ifaximun lean value for gcreral accounts. The maximum 
''alue of securities in a general account subject to 5 220,3 shall bo; 

3377 
- 2 -
(1) of a registered non-equity security held in the account 
n March 11, 1968, and continuously thereafter, and of a margin equity 
e°Jrity ( e x c e p t as provided in § 220.3(c) and paragraphs (b) and (c) 
thi 
^cuuti 
section), 35 per cent of the current market value of such 
es. 
*
*
*
*
* 
(d) Margin required for short sales. The amount to be included 
n e adjusted debit balance of a general account, pursuant to § 220.3(d)(3), 
^ g i a required for short sales of securities (other than exempted 
C i t i e s ) shall be 65 per cent of the current market value cf each security. 
PART 221—CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE 
OF PURCHASING CR CARRYING MARGIN STOCKS 
3. Effective November'24, 1972, section 221.4(a) (the Supplement 
eSulation U) is amended to read as follows: 
§ 
4 e 
(a) Haximrn loan value of stocks. 
For the purpose of § 7.21.1, 
-toan value of any stock, whether or net registered on e 
^ttomi 
securities exchange, shall be 35 per cent of its current 
determined by any reasonable method. 

3378 
-1-
4 a. These amendments are issued pursuant to section 7 of 
"4t" Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g). The changes are 
r-j, 
$e the margin, requirements for purchasing or carrying stocks, and 
' 
sales, from 55 to 65 per cent. 
k, The requirements of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
* 
re spec 
i to notice, public participation, and deferred effective 
W e r e »et f ojlev.'ed in connection with these amendments because 
^UcvM 
" 
such requirements would have prevented the Board's action from 
'«> ettective as promptly as necessary in the public interest, 
fry order of the Board of Governors, November 22, 1972 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan . 
I'icho.e.l A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Isoard 
