MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 17, 1968 

4396 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 17, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 2:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Bernard of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Fry of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Discount rate. The directors of eight Federal Reserve Banks 
had established, subject to the approval of the Board of Governors, 
a rate of 5-1/2 per cent (rather than the present 5-1/4 per cent) on 
discounts and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of 
the Federal Reserve Act, while the directors of two Banks (Philadelphi 
and St. Louis) had established a rate of 5-3/4 per cent. 

. 4397 
12/17/68 
- 2 -
Further consideration now was given to the matter against 
the background of the discussion at this morning's meeting of the 
Federal Open Market Committee and the current economic policy 
directive issued by the Committee in which it was stated that 
System open market operations until the next meeting of the 
Committee should be conducted with a view to attaining firmer 
conditions in money and short-term credit markets, taking account 
of the effects of other possible monetary policy action, with the 
proviso that operations should be modified if bank credit expansion 
appeared to be deviating significantly from current projections. 
At the beginning of this afternoon's session the Vice 
Chairman summarized telephone conversations that he had initiated 
with officials of the U.S. Treasury, the Bank of England, and the 
Bank of Canada. In the opinion of the Treasury officials a 
1/4 point increase in the discount rate would do no harm but would 
have little, if any, announcement effect since such action had been 
largely discounted, while a larger rate increase might provide a 
political reason for the British to move to a floating rate for the 
pound sterling. Except as the international situation presented an 
impediment, the Treasury would have no objection to such a move. 
The Bank of England official with whom the Vice Chairman 
spoke agreed that a 1/4 point increase in the rate could be said to 
have little effect from the British standpoint. A larger increase 

4398 
12/17/68 
- 3 -
could provide a reason for a political decision, but an increase 
in member bank reserve requirements would not be of similar concern 
because it had been generally assumed that there would be a tighten-
ing of U.S. monetary policy and a reserve requirement increase would 
seem to be a logical part of such a course. 
The Bank of Canada officialhad indicated that it appeared 
quite likely that Canadian tightening moves might be taken rela-
tively soon, not because of any action taken by the Federal Reserve 
but in light of developments in the Canadian economy. 
Governor Robertson also commented that Chairman Martin, 
before leaving on vacation, had expressed no firm position but had 
seemed to feel that combining a reserve requirement increase with 
discount rate action might be more beneficial than otherwise. 
(Governor Daane suggested that the Chairman's view may have reflected 
a hoped-for improvement in the British trade picture that did not 
materialize.) 
The members of the Board then expressed their individual 
views, and there was a unanimity of opinion that action on the 
discount rate would be appropriate. Reference was made not only to 
the advances in other market interest rates in recent months but to 
the continued excessive strength of economic expansion, the resur-
gence of inflationary expectations, and the adverse effect of 
rising domestic prices on the U.S. balance of payments. 

4398 
12/17/68 
- 4 -
Three members of the Board (Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
and Brimmer) felt that in addition there should be an increase in 
reserve requirements, effective in mid-January for technical reasons. 
They believed that a 1/4 point increase in the discount rate, 
standing by itself, would have little if any psychological impact 
because it had already been anticipated, and also that inclusion of 
the reserve requirement action would help to reduce the availability 
of bank reserves without as much upward pressure on market interest 
rates as if the same amount of reserves were absorbed through open 
market sales of securities pursuant to the Open Market Committee's 
policy directive. Finally, they concluded that announcement of the 
two actions would provide a clear signal of determination to resist 
inflat ionary pressures in the economy. 
The other three members (Governors Daane, Maisel, and 
Sherrill) were of the view that a 1/4 point increase in the discount 
rate, combined with the firmer stance in open market policy that had 
been agreed upon by the Open Market Committee, represented suffi-
cient action for the present and that the announcement of additional 
action would risk undesirable reactions in financial markets. In 
this connection, reference was made to the British situation among 
other factors. Their thinking ran not toward achieving an announce-
ment effect as much as achieving real results, and they concluded 
that a decision on reserve requirements should await an assessment 

4400 
12/17/68 
- 5 -
of the impact of firming steps being undertaken through open market 
policy and a modest discount rate change. 
As to the reserve requirement question, there was some 
difference of opinion among the members who favored such action as 
to the precise form of adjustment that would be most suitable, but 
a willingness to compromise was indicated if some such action could 
be agreed upon. 
When basic positions remained unchanged after further dis-
cussion, the Vice Chairman noted that the votes of a majority of the 
Board for a reserve requirement increase apparently were not avail-
able, which meant that the only possible action today was on the 
discount rate. 
Consideration then was given to the question of a 1/2 point 
increase in the discount rate, but it was the prevailing opinion 
that the risks involved, particularly the risk of unsettling domes-
tic financial and foreign exchange markets, outweighed arguments 
in favor of such a move. A question also was raised regarding the 
prospective effect of making no change in the discount rate at this 
time, and staff members expressed their views on probable market 
developments along with problems that might be involved in carrying 
out the Open Market Committee's directive. 
Consideration next was given to the terms in which a dis-
count rate increase of 1/4 point might be announced, after which 

4401 
12/17/68 
- 6 -
the meeting recessed and reconvened at 3:15 p.m., at which time a 
revised draft of press release was placed before the Board members. 
(Also, the Philadelphia and St. Louis Reserve Banks had been advised 
that it did not appear that the Board was prepared to approve an 
increase of more than 1/4 point in the discount rate, and the 
Philadelphia Bank had reacted by submitting a rate of 5-1/2 per cent.) 
The proposed press release was considered and agreement 
eventually was reached on language for such a document. 
Members of the Board who had favored additional action then 
made known that they would vote for the 5-1/2 per cent discount rate 
on the ground that it was apparently the only action on which the 
necessary votes could be obtained at this time. 
Accordingly, the following rates were approved unanimously, 
effective December 18, 1968: 
For the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
Minnneapolis, and Dallas a rate of 5-1/2 per cent 
on discounts and advances to member banks under 
sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. 
For the same Banks a rate of 6 per cent on advances 
to member banks under section 10(b) of the Act. 
For the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas 
a rate of 6-1/2 per cent on advances to individuals, 
partnerships, and corporations other than member banks 
under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act, and 
for the New York and Cleveland Banks a rate of 7 per 
cent on such advances. 

12/17/68 
- 7 -
The Secretary was authorized to advise other Federal Reserve 
Banks that subsequently established similar rates of approval by the 
Board of such rates. 
(Note: Pursuant to such authority the Secretary advised the 
St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Banks of the approval of 
rates of 5-1/2 per cent, 6 per cent, and 6-1/2 per cent at each of 
those Banks, effective December 20, 1968.) 
A copy of the press release issued with respect to the dis-
count rate increase is attached as Item No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
For immediate release 
Item No. 1 
12/17/68 
December 17, 1968 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today its approval of action by directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, and Dallas, increasing the discount rate of those banks from 
5-1/4 to 5-1/2 per cent, effective Wednesday, December 18. 
This discount rate increase was approved in recognition of the 
advances that have taken place in other market interest rates in recent 
Months and also in light of the resurgence in inflationary expectations 
fchat is impeding the restoration of economic stability. The objective 
Federal Reserve policy is to foster financial conditions conducive to 
the reduction of inflationary pressures, with a view toward encouraging a 
more sustainable rate of economic expansion and attaining reasonable 
equilibrium in the country's balance of payments. The present action is 
being taken in furtherance of a policy of restraint. 
The discount rate is the interest rate charged member banks for 
borrowing from their district Federal Reserve Banks. The increase restores 
t he rate to the level prevailing between April 19 and August 15, 1968. 
This level is the highest in nearly four decades. 
Voting for this action were Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. Chairman Martin was absent 
and did not vote. 
- 0 -
