Minutes for February 13, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include, a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office, 
Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel. 
Governor Brimmer 

473 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 13, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
M r . Martin, Chairman 
M r . Shepardson 
M r . Mitchell 
M r . Daane 
M r . Maisel 
M r . Brimmer 
M r . Sherman, Secretary 
M r . Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
M r . Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
M r . Molony, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Hackley, General Counsel 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
M r . O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
M r . Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
M r . Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
M r . Staiger, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Via, Senior Attorney, and Cloth, Attorney, 
Legal Division 
M r . Maroni, Senior Economist, Division of 
International Finance 
M r . Veenstra, Chief, Financial Statistics Section, 
Division of Data Processing 
Extension of time (Item N o . 1). Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to State Street Bank and Trust Company, Boston, Massachusetts, 
granting an extension of time to establish a branch in Chelsea. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item N o . 1. 

2/13/67 
-2-
Report on competitive factors. A revision of the conclusion 
having been agreed upon, unanimous approval was given to the transmittal 
to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of Bank of Nutley, Nutley, New Jersey, 
into First National State Bank of New Jersey, Newark, New Jersey. 
In 
the form in which approved, the conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of Bank of Nutley into First National 
State Bank of New Jersey, Newark, would eliminate any existing 
and potential competition between them and would increase the 
concentration of banking resources in Essex County. 
However, 
there would remain, readily accessible to residents of Essex 
County, a wide variety of alternative sources of commercial 
banking services. Overall, the effect of the proposal on 
competition would be adverse. 
Application of First Virginia Corporation (Item No. 2). 
The 
First Virginia Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, had applied for a deter-
mination that proposed insurance activities of its nonbanking subsidiary, 
First Virginia Life Insurance Agency, Inc., were of the kind described in 
section 4(c)(8) (formerly 4(c)(6)) of the Bank Holding Company Act so as 
to make inapplicable the prohibitions of section 4 of the Act with respect 
to the retention of shares in nonbanking companies. First Virginia Life 
Insurance Agency, Inc., proposed to change its name to First Virginia 
Life Insurance Company and to issue and underwrite credit life and dis-
ability insurance on borrowers from the banking subsidiaries of First 
Virginia Corporation. At its meeting on October 10, 1966, the Board 
ordered a hearing on the application, as required by law. Mr. Philip J. 
La Macchia was designated as Hearing Examiner, and the hearing was held 
on November 1, 1966. 

475 
2/13/67
 
_ 3
" 
Copies of the report and recommended decision of the Hearing 
Examiner were distributed under date of January 13, 1967. There had 
now been distributed a memorandum dated February 9, 1967, from the Legal 
Division expressing agreement with the Hearing Examiner's conclusion that 
the activities planned to be undertaken met the test of section 4(c)(8) 
and recommending that the Board issue an order granting the requested 
determination. A draft of such an order was attached to the Legal Divi-
sion's memorandum. 
The Board authorized by unanimous vote the issuance of the order, 
a copy of which is attached as Item No. 2. 
Monthly deposit data. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated January 30, 1967, from the Division of Data Processing recommend-
ing publication of a new monthly statistical series showing seasonally 
adjusted deposit data for the 233 Standard Metropolitan Statistical 
Areas included in the bank debits series. These monthly figures for 
total demand deposits, except interbank and U.S. Government, represented 
the deposit base of the debits series, collected for the purpose of 
computing deposit turnover. 
The proposed series would fill a long-standing need for current 
disaggregate regional deposit data. Under publication procedures 
described in the memorandum there would be some duplication between the 
proposed release and the existing debits release (G.6, Bank Debits and 
Deposit Turnover). 
It was contemplated that the two releases would 

476 
2/13/67 
-4-
ultimately be combined into a single publication, but such combination 
was not feasible at this time, principally because of a current shortage 
of computer programmers. 
During discussion of the matter following summary comments by 
Mr. Veenstra, there was general agreement that the merger of the two 
series on debits and deposits should be effected as soon as feasible. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the publication of the 
proposed statistical series on deposits. 
International Investment Insurance Agency (Item No. 3). 
There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated February 10, 1967, from M r . 
Solomon (Adviser) referring to work done by staff of the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development in drafting proposed articles 
of agreement for an International Investment Insurance Agency, which 
would insure investments of developed countries in less developed 
countries. 
The Bank had circulated the draft articles to member governments 
for their comments, and a working group of representatives from interested 
U.S. Government agencies had been set up to consider the proposal. 
This 
working group had decided to ask its member agencies to contact a small 
number of interested private parties with which they had regular dealings 
to ascertain their reaction. Accordingly, it was suggested by M r . Solomon 
that the Board send copies of the draft articles of agreement to each of 
nine specified banks engaged prominently in overseas activities and to 
the Life Insurance Association of America. 

477 
2/13/67 
-5" 
Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter for transmittal 
by the Board to each of the nine banks and to the Life Insurance Associ-
ation. 
M r . Maroni summarized the plan along the lines outlined in the 
distributed material and named several agencies that would be conducting 
the opinion sampling. In response to questions by Governor Brimmer, M r . 
Maroni indicated that he understood the Export-Import Bank would not be 
among the Government agencies engaged in the opinion sampling and that 
the working group felt the inclusion of fire and casualty insurance 
companies would serve no useful purpose because their business interests 
in less developed countries were small. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that it would be worth while 
to have the reaction of the Foreign Credit Insurance Association group 
and inquired which agency would contact them. It was understood that 
the staff would follow up on that point. 
Governor Daane suggested that the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents 
should be made aware of the opinion-sampling procedure, particularly 
those Presidents in whose Districts recipients of the proposed Board 
letters were headquartered. 
Following further discussion, unanimous approval was given to 
the sending of the proposed letters; a copy of one of the letters is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

478 
2/13/67 
-6-
Secretary's Note: 
Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (copy attached as 
Item No. 4) approving the appointment of Eugene A . Baldi as assistant 
examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
Item No. 5) approving the appointment of David L . Daughtrey as assistant 
examiner. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics recommend-
ing the appointment of Sara Cross as Economist in that Division, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $7,696, effective the date of entrance 
upon duty. 

4 SO 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
2/13/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 13, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
State Street Bank and 
Trust Company, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to October 9, 1967, the time within which 
State Street Bank and Trust Company, Boston, Massachusetts, 
may establish a branch at the intersection of Beacham 
Street Extension and Overmyer Place, Chelsea, 
Massachusetts. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E . Bakke 
Karl E . Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

UNITED STATES OF 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF 
WASHINGTON, 
4 SO 
Item No. 2 
2/13/67 
AMERICA 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE FIRST VIRGINIA CORPORATION, 
Arlington, Virginia, 
Pursuant to Section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 for a deter-
mination re the expansion of the activities 
of First Virginia Life Insurance Agency, Inc, 
(formerly Mt. Vernon Insurance Agency, Inc.) 
DOCKET NO. BHC-80 
ORDER 
The First Virginia Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of section 2(a) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C* 1841(a) as amended by Public Law 89-485), 
filed a request for a determination by the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System that the proposed expanded activities of its 
subsidiary, First Virginia Life Insurance Agency, Inc., are of the kind 
described in section 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and 
section 222,5(b) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.5(b)) ao as to 
®ake it unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4(a) of the Act with 
Respect to shares in nonbanking companies to apply in order to carry out 
the purpose of the Act. 

- 2 -
481 
Pursuant to the requirements of section 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
in accordance with the provisions of section 222,5(b) and 222.7(a) of the 
Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.5(b), 222.7(a)), a hearing was held on 
this matter on November 1, 1966. The Hearing Examiner filed his Report 
and Recommended Decision on January 18, 1967, a copy of which is appended 
hereto, wherein he recommended that the request be granted. The filing 
of exceptions to the aforesaid Report and Recommended Decision having 
been waived, the Board hereby adopts the findings of fact, conclusions 
of law, and recommendations embodied therein, and on the basis thereof 
and of the entire record, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the proposed expanded activities 
of First Virginia Life Insurance Agency, Inc., are determined to be so 
closely related to the business of banking or of managing or controlling 
banks as to be a proper incident thereto and as to make it unnecessary 
for the prohibitions of section 4(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act to 
apply in order to carry out the purposes of the Act; provided, however, 
that this determination is subject to revocation if the facts upon which 
it is based should cease to obtain in any material respect. 
Dated at Washington, D, C., this 13th. day of February, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Shepardson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and 
Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Robertson. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

182 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
2/13/67 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 13, 1967. 
Mr. Thomas S. Gates, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Dear Mr. Gates: 
The staff of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (IBRD) has drafted proposed articles of agreement for an 
International Investment Insurance Agency, which is primarily designed 
to assist private investors in developed countries wishing to make 
investments in less developed countries. The IBRD has circulated the 
draft to representatives of member governments for their comments. 
Representatives of interested U.S. agencies are currently considering 
the matter and would appreciate receiving the views of some of the 
interested businesses and financial institutions in this country. 
The Board has been asked to assist in obtaining such views 
from a few financial institutions, and we shall appreciate your fur-
nishing comments on the proposal outlined in the enclosed draft 
articles of agreement prepared by the IBRD staff. Your suggestions 
on the project as a whole as well as on any points of detail would be 
welcome. It should be emphasized that the document is a first draft 
prepared as a basis for further discussion, and it is not to be 
regarded as a definitive proposal. 
We realize that the draft is fairly lengthy and that it may 
take time for you and your staff to give it the necessary attention, 
but we hope that it will be possible for your bank to furnish some 
comments by the first of March. 
Thank you for your cooperation. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 

4 S3 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F The 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/13/67 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
AODRCII OrriCIAL CORREBPONOtNCC 
TO THE BOARD 
February 14, 1967 
M r . Luther M . Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear M r . Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of February 3, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Eugene A . Baldi as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Please advise 
the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L , Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4 SO 
BOARD CJF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
2/13/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 13, 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of February 7, 1967, the Board approves 
the appointment of David L. Daughtrey as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
