Minutes for April 24, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advis 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1523 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
stem on Monday, April 24, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Chief Federal Reserve 
Examiner, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
Messrs. Forrestal and Sanders of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Golden and Keir of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Donovan and Lyon of the Division of 
Examinations 
Act of September 21, 1966 (Item No. 1). Discussion continued 
at this meeting concerning the request from the Bureau of the Budget 
for the views of the Board on a Treasury draft bill that would make per-
manent the Act of September 21, 1966 (Public Law 89-597), which granted 
new authority to the financial regulatory agencies in connection with 
maximum interest and dividend rates, and to the Federal Reserve with 
respect to reserve requirements and open market operations in agency 
issues. 
Consideration had been given to the matter at the meetings on 
April 13 and 18, 1966, prior to which there had been distributed memo-
randa dated April 11 and 12, 1967, reflecting recommendations of the 
Legal Division and of Governor Robertson, respectively. The April 11 
memorandum suggested several points for Board consideration, including 
the general question whether the Board favored permanent legislation of 
this character and specifically whether the "sense of Congress" provi-
sion in section 1 of the 1966 Act should be retained. The other memo-
randum submitted for consideration an alternative draft bill that would 
make permanent the Act of September 21, 1966, but repeal section 1 (which 
Provides that the financial regulatory agencies in implementing their 
Powers under the law "shall take action to bring about the reduction of 
interest rates to the maximum extent feasible in the light of prevailing 
money market and general economic conditions"). 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated April 21, 
1967, from the Division of Research and Statistics discussing another 
possible approach; namely, that because of the limited experience in 
operating under the present law the Treasury draft bill was premature, 
and that the preferable course would be to extend the Act on a temporary 
basis for another two years. The memorandum noted that with yields on 
market securities down sharply relative to the rate ceilings established 
last September, marked differences of opinion had developed as to the 
regulatory approach needed to implement the Act of September 21, 1966. 
One group favored a coordinated roll-back of rate ceilings for all types 
of regulated institutions, while a second group (with which the Division 
of Research and Statistics aligned itself) argued that with rates on 
market securities no longer pressing savings rates against the September 21 
ceilings, the time was ripe for regulatory agencies to place the ceilings 
on a standby basis. There were also intermediate views. 
At the beginning of today's discussion Chairman Martin observed 
that, as he had previously stated, he did not like the proposed legisla-
tion. However, it was important that everyone have an opportunity to 
speak to the issues. Accordingly, he called for a go-around of views. 
Governor Shepardson said he was impressed with the most recent 
staff document. It appeared that there was considerable pressure for 
continuation of the legislation in some form, but there were difficul-
ties in any of the approaches that had been suggested. His conclusion 

I S 2 6 
4/24/67 
-4-
was that the proposal to seek an extension on a temporary basis might 
represent the best solution. Such a course, if accepted by the Con-
gress, would permit additional experience to be gained, on the basis 
of which the Board should be in a better position to develop further 
recommendations. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the bill was dangerous 
in the sense that it invited participation in monetary management by 
the Home Loan Bank Board. He would like to get away from the idea of 
interest rate regulation, but he did not know how best to proceed from 
a practical standpoint. It was possible that further talks with the 
Treasury would be helpful. However, if it was clear that the legisla-
tion was to be extended in some form, a temporary extension seemed to 
him the best solution. 
Governor Daane expressed agreement with Governors Shepardson 
and Mitchell. It seemed to him that the principle underlying the leg-
islation was wrong. But if the Board had to go along with some sort of 
legislation, he would prefer to extend the 1966 Act on a temporary basis, 
meanwhile making it clear that the legislation was far from perfect in 
theory and in practice. 
Governor Maisel, on the other hand, expressed the view that the 
leg 
islation was useful, an important tool of monetary policy that it 
would be a mistake to oppose. His only concern was about proposals to 
u se the authority to roll back rate ceilings rather than allow competi-
tive forces in the savings markets to establish rate structures. 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
Governor Brimmer referred to a recent interagency meeting in 
which representatives of the Treasury, Home Loan Bank Board, Federal 
Housing Administration, Bureau of the Budget, and Council of Economic 
Advisers had participated. During discussion of the general question 
of interest rate ceilings, it became apparent that the Home Loan Bank 
Board was not only anxious to have the authority embodied in the legis-
lation shared with it on a permanent basis but was desirous of using 
the authority to reduce ceilings by July 1, attaching great importance 
to the "sense of Congress" provision in section 1. The only support he 
(Governor Brimmer) received for his argument against using the authority 
in the near future came from the Council, and he left with the feeling 
that the Board should endorse the leg islation only in terms of the need 
for its availability in an emergency. 
Governor Brimmer commended the Division of Research and Statis-
tics on its analysis of the situation and indicated that his preference 
would be to seek extension of the legislation for a two-year period. 
In such event, he realized it would be difficult to obtain repeal of 
the "sense of Congress" provision. However, he anticipated that as 
long as that clause was contained in the legislation it would be used 
by the Home Loan Bank Board as a peg on which to base attempts to change 
ceiling rates periodically. From his talks with Treasury representatives, 
it was his impression that the Treasury was pushing to have the legisla-
tion extended and that any attempts to slow down the movement would have 
to come from the Board. 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
Governor Robertson said he had the feeling that the Board was 
forgetting recent lessons. As he saw it, the Act of September 21, 1966, 
was an effective tool of monetary policy. With the exception of the 
"sense of Congress" provision, the legislation was essentially in the 
form in which it had been drafted at the Board. It provided a standby 
authority for use whenever it became clear that ceilings were needed to 
dampen an undesirable escalation of interest rates. It provided an 
umbrella for use when monetary policy was in danger of being circum-
vented. 
Governor Robertson felt, however, that there was danger in work-
ing for a temporary extension of the legislation in its present form. 
The "sense of Congress" provision could not be ignored, and as long as 
it was included the Home Loan Bank Board and others could exert pressure 
upon the Board. It seemed to him that the wisest course would be to 
wove in the direction of permanent legislation from which the "sense of 
Congress" provision had been deleted, and he believed the Treasury could 
be. persuaded. 
Governor Daane commented that he believed the Board could work 
within the framework of the "sense of Congress" provision, interpreting 
it to call for as low interest rates as possible in a given situation 
without producing inflation. A strong protest might lend credence to 
the argument that section 1 was a guidepost for the imposition of ceil-
ing rates, and its retention would then gain more significance. He 
asked for Mr. Cardon's views on the subject. 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
Mr. Cardon recalled that the "sense of Congress" provision was 
promoted by friends of the Federal Reserve in an effort to gain sup-
port for the legislation that was then being proposed by the Board, as 
opposed to legislation favored by others. It did not seem reasonable 
to expect that Congress would repeal a clause in favor of low interest 
rates, other things being equal. In short, it seemed to him that there 
was virtually no chance of having section 1 deleted and that the safer 
course would be to interpret it along the lines Governor Daane had sug-
gested. 
Mr. Cardon added that he could understand that members of the 
Board would prefer to let interest rates be set in the market place 
rather tha n by selective controls. However, the choice was between 
continuing the legislation embodied in Public Law 89-597 and reverting 
to a situation where standby authority was not available. As for the 
proposal to extend the legislation on a temporary basis, it would prob-
ably be difficult to take advantage of the standby authority under such 
circumstances. In addition, once a pattern was set for one or two-year 
extensions it would not be likely to change, thus requiring hearings 
Periodically. 
Governor Brimmer commented that it appeared to him the real 
risk lay not in having to explain the Board's actions but in the pres-
sure that would be brought to bear on the Board to manipulate ceiling 
rates frequently if the "sense of Congress" provision was included in 
Permanent legislation. 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
At this point Governor Daane reiterated his position that a 
temporary extension would represent the least undesirable option. He 
then withdrew from the meeting to attend the sessions of the Deputies 
of the Group of Ten and the Executive Directors of the International 
Monetary Fund on international monetary reform. 
During further discussion of the extent to which the Board 
might be pressured to reduce ceiling rates on the basis of the "sense 
of Congress" clause, Mr. Brill stated that he considered the presence 
of the provision potentially hazardous. There was always a danger that 
the des ires of the home building industry and the needs of the savings 
and loan associations would prevail over sectors more important econom-
ically in determining the direction of the flow of funds. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that introduction of the Treasury 
draft bill at this time might give added impetus to the Home Loan Bank 
Board's desire to use the "sense of Congress" provision as a peg on 
which to hang a decision to act on ceiling rates before July 1. It 
seemed to him that as a minimum the Board should resist any attempt to 
exert artificial pressure on rate ceilings prior to the mid-year inter-
e st and dividend crediting period. 
Chairman Martin indicated that he had concluded that a proper 
Position might be that not enough experience had been gained in operat-
lng under the terms of the present statute to determine whether or not 
continuation of the legislation was desirable. 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
Further dis cuss ion developed the view that even if introduction 
of the Treasury draft bill should be delayed until after July 1, there 
should still be ample opportunity for the Congress to consider an exten-
sion of the legislation prior to the September 1967 deadline. Comments 
were made to the effect that introduction of proposed legislation at 
this time might serve to focus attention on the problem presented by 
the inclinations of the Home Loan Bank Board, with disruptive market 
effects. 
A consensus then emerged in favor of replying to the request 
of the Bureau of the Budget in terms that the Board would counsel 
deferring until after July 1 the introduction of a bill either to 
make permanent or to extend the authority contained in the Act of 
September 21, 1966, in order that more experience might be gained in 
operating under the terms of the present statute. The letter would 
also point out that premature introduction of legislation would be 
likely to interfere with the normal and desirable adjustment of rates 
Paid on savings deposits and share accounts to changing conditions in 
fina ncial markets. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the sending of a letter 
along the lines discussed. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to 
the Bureau of the Budget is attached as Item No. 1. 
Application of Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation. A 
memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated April 10, 1967, and 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an appli-
cation by Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
to acquire shares of West Suburban Bank, Brookfield, Wisconsin. The 
staff recommendations were favorable. 
Following comments by Mr. Lyon in supplementation of the mate-
rial that had been distributed, the application was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting this deci-
sion would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Chairman Sparkman of the Senate 
2 
Committee on Banking and Currency reporting 
S. 356, a bill "To permit the establish-
ment and operation of certain branch offices 
by the Michigan National Bank, Lansing, 
Michigan." 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
3 
relating to the question whether a member 
bank must maintain reserves against trust 
funds deposited by its trust department in 
the member bank's commercial or banking 
department. 
Messrs. Brill, Cardon, Koch, Smith (Research), Golden, Keir, 
Donovan, and Lyon withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Use of deposit machines. There had been distributed a memo-
randum dated April 13, 1967, from the Legal Division relating to a 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
request from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas for a ruling on the 
question whether the use of a deposit machine, off premises, by a State 
member bank for the receipt of checks, currency, and coin would be con-
sidered the establishment of a branch for purposes of the Federal Reserve 
Act and accordingly require Board approval. 
A national bank in Arizona was in the process of installing such 
deposit machines at various locations pursuant to the authority contained 
in a 1965 ruling of the Comptroller of the Currency (then Mr. Saxon) that 
"A national bank may utilize at any location a machine which receives 
checks, currency, or coin for deposit. The machine shall provide docu-
mentary evidence of the transaction which states that the transaction 
will become a deposit upon verification and crediting at the main office 
or a branch office of the bank. Utilization of such machines at loca-
tions other than the main office or a branch office of the bank does not 
constitute branch banking. A bank may provide insurance protection under 
its bonding program for transactions involving such machines." 
Upon inquiry from the Superintendent of Banks of Arizona as to 
the branch banking implications of such a practice, the present Comp-
troller of the Currency reaffirmed the ruling in March 1967, stating 
that the use of the deposit machine did not violate, or come within the 
scope of, applicable branching laws, inasmuch as the bank did not accept 
funds for deposit until they reached the bank's premises. He added that 
an agency relationship was created between the customer and the person 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
transporting the funds to the bank, as in the case where armored car 
messenger service was supplied. 
The Arizona Superintendent of Banks had also sought the opinion 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas as to whether deposit machines 
were branches within the meaning of the Federal Reserve Act, and the 
Reserve Bank, in turn, requested a ruling by the Board. Counsel for 
the Reserve Bank was inclined to the affirmative, but opinion in the 
Legal Division was divided. Accordingly, it was the Division's recom-
mendation that the Board not make a decision until a bank under its 
jurisdiction proposed to offer such service. Attached to the memorandum 
was a draft of letter to the Reserve Bank along such lines. 
After summary remarks by Mr. Hooff, Governor Brimmer expressed 
the view that an active issue of banking practice was involved in terms 
of relationships between State member and national banks. While no 
State member bank had actually proposed to operate deposit machines, 
the lack of a Board ruling might serve as a deterrent. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the recommendation of the Legal 
Division not to rule on a moot question was in line with general Board 
Practice. It seemed to him that failure to act in this case gave tacit 
support to the Comptroller's decision. 
Mr. Hackley replied that the usual practice of the Board had 
been to provide interpretations of the laws administered by the Federal 
Reserve System whenever questions were raised on the basis of a factual 

4/24/67 
-13-
situation. In the present instance, however, no actual case was before 
the Board. If a ruling were made at this time, it would be a ruling on 
a practice followed by a national bank. It was possible that the opera-
tion of the deposit machines would be so expensive that the practice 
would not spread. Also, if a State member bank proposed to adopt such 
a practice, the facts might not coincide with the national bank's scheme. 
Therefore, it appeared unwise to rule in a vacuum. In addition the legal 
question was debatable, and it seemed desirable to avoid conflicts with 
the Comptroller's Office where possible. 
Governor Robertson stated that, as he had informed the Board 
earlier, the practice of using deposit machines was discussed at a meet-
ing of the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, at which time the 
consensus was that, aside from the legal question, a practice of this 
kind had important policy implications for the future. He had expressed 
concern that if such operations proved successful, large banks could 
create severe competitive problems by surrounding small banks with 
deposit machines. The Comptroller had pointed out that if the opera-
tion of the machines proved too expensive the practice probably would 
not spread. Later, when he (Governor Robertson) learned that the Comp-
troller had reaffirmed the outstanding ruling, he inquired of the Comp-
troller as to the legal basis for the position, but such information 
had not yet been received. 
Governor Robertson noted that the Superintendent of Banks for 
Arizona appeared to be seeking support for an attack on the Comptroller's 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
ruling and that a ruling by the Board at this time would appear to be 
directed at the legality of the Comptroller's position. It seemed to 
Governor Robertson that the wisest course would be to refrain from 
expressing an opinion at this time on the grounds that no application 
was before the Board. Later, if a State member bank should adopt, or 
consider adopting, the practice of using deposit machines, the Board 
would have to act. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the Board should be 
cautious about rejecting innovations designed to keep the banking 
industry attuned to technological developments. In his view, the fact 
that a small bank might be placed at a competitive disadvantage in rela-
tion to a large institution was not in itself a sufficient reason for 
Ejecting such an innovation. 
Governor Brimmer said that in the circumstances, as explained, 
he would not oppose deferring action for the time being. However, he 
Would suggest study of the broad implications of the practice in ques-
tion, with a view to determining whether such an innovation was in fact 
a step forward. His inclination was to agree with Governor Mitchell. 
After further discussion it was agreed that a ruling on the 
question whether branch banking was involved would be deferred and that 
the Dallas Reserve Bank would be so advised. 
Messrs. Molony, Fauver, Hexter, O'Connell, Shay, Hooff, Egertson, 
Ingham, Forrestal, and Sanders withdrew from the meeting at this point. 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
Proposed changes in Rules and Regulations of Retirement System 
litem No. 4). There had been distributed memoranda dated April 11 and 
14, 1967, from Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, relating to certain proposed changes in the Rules and Regulations 
of the Bank Plan of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
the purposes of which were (1) to permit special service retirement 
Prior to age 65 without full actuarial discount and (2) to supplement 
the allowances of retired members. Before submitting the proposals to 
the Board of Trustees, the Executive Committee of the Retirement System 
sought an indication of the views of the Board. Details of the pro-
posals were summarized in the distributed memoranda. 
In supplementary comments, Mr. Johnson expressed the view that 
the proposals would remedy existing weak spots in the Retirement System 
and recommended favorable consideration by the Board. Both proposals 
would be funded from the so-called excess earnings of the Retirement 
Sys tem. If the Board reacted favorably, the Chairman of the Executive 
Committee (President Wayne) probably would arrange for a special meet-
ln8 of the Board of Trustees, and the Trustees would then submit the 
Proposals formally to the Board for approval. The objective was to put 
them into effect July 1, 1967, if possible. 
Governor Maisel observed that the proposals were the same as 
those discussed with the Board by President Wayne on March 2, 1967, and 
that certain statistical information requested by Board members at the 
time had now been supplied. He expressed approval of the general philos-
°Phy reflected in the proposals, and Governor Shepardson concurred. 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
Unanimous approval was then given to the transmittal of a let-
ter to President Wayne, as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the 
Retirement System, indicating that the Board was prepared to approve 
amendments to the Rules and Regulations of the Retirement System along 
the lines suggested if the proposed amendments were formally submitted 
by the Board of Trustees. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
Report by Haskins & Sells (Item No. 5). There had been distrib-
uted to the Board copies of the report submitted by Haskins & Sells 
covering their review in 1966 of the procedures followed by the Board's 
examiners in examinations of the Federal Reserve Banks. The report, 
dated February 17, 1967, pointed out that the firm's review consisted 
Principally of evaluating and discussing with representatives of the 
Divi sion of Examinations certain proposed further refinements in exami-
nation procedures, and of advising and assisting in the use of statis-
tical sampling techniques. 
There had also been distributed a memorandum dated April 11, 
1967, from Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations, commenting 
the Haskins & Sells report. 
Attached to the memorandum was a letter from Haskins & Sells to 
Governor Shepardson dated March 27, 1967, which outlined further ser-
vices that the firm proposed to offer during 1967. These would include 
assistance in report preparation, in extending statistical sampling 
techniques, and in personnel recruitment, as well as an evaluation 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
visit to one of the Reserve Banks during its examination by the field 
staff. 
The Division of Examinations expressed general agreement with 
these proposals. Attached to the distributed memorandum was a draft 
of letter that would request Haskins & Sells to perform the proposed 
services. 
Following summary remarks by Mr. Solomon, Governor Shepardson 
commented that modification of the examination program and procedures 
had been proceeding along lines recommended by Haskins & Sells and 
approved by the Board. However, there were certain refinements still 
to be accomplished. For instance, amplification of the work papers 
would be desirable to indicate more specifically the work performed by 
the assigned examiner on a particular examination and the conclusions 
reached. Also, the examination report might be simplified, with greater 
emphasis on reporting by exception and omission of less significant mate-
rial currently included in the report. The contents would then be con-
fined principally to matters warranting criticism and to matters of 
special interest or an unusual nature. Such comments might be included 
in the report proper or in the confidential section. In any event, it 
would seem desirable to develop a procedure whereby the Board would be 
Promptly informed of changes or improvements suggested, even though 
Board action might not be required. 
Governor Shepardson found the proposals of Haskins & Sells gen-
erally appropriate, and he recommended that the firm be retained to 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
perform services in 1967 along the lines indicated in the letter of 
March 27, 1967. On the points raised with respect to the format of 
the examination report, the Board might wish to express its views. 
In response to an inquiry, Governor Shepardson and Mr. Solomon 
said that every effort would be made during the current year to complete 
the implementation of procedures that had been recommended by Haskins & 
Sells. Mr. Solomon noted, however, that some of the suggestions involved 
a gradual process of evolvement. 
Governor Mitchell expressed reservations about any tendency to 
resort unduly to the confidential section of the examination report. 
While certain subjects, such as personnel matters, were appropriate for 
inclusion in the confidential section, he would not want the Board to 
follow a practice in which the examiners were asked to deal with excep-
tions on an "off-the-record" basis. 
Mr. Solomon said the Division of Examinations would also be 
°PPosed to such a practice, at least as far as exceptions of consequence 
were concerned. 
Governor Maisel proposed that the Board might be made aware of 
action" suggestions of the examining staff by means of a relatively 
krief memorandum that would be submitted to the Board promptly follow-
ing 
each examination. Governor Brimmer agreed. 
Governor Brimmer then remarked that if the practice of rotation 
a t five-year intervals were continued the 1967 assignment would be 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
the last for Haskins & Sells. However, if the suggestions made by the 
firm were not fully implemented during the current year, a change in 
firms might result in loss of ground so far as perfecting the examina-
tion program and procedures was concerned. 
Governor Robertson agreed that there was merit in the point 
made by Governor Brimmer. As an offset, however, a new firm might pro-
duce fresh viewpoints that would be beneficial. The Board, of course, 
would always have to decide which proposals to accept. 
Following further discussion during which comments were made 
favorable to the work performed by Haskins & Sells, a consensus devel-
°ped that the selection of a firm to review examination procedures in 
1968 should be deferred. It was thought appropriate, however, to pro-
ceed at this time with the selection of a firm to audit the Board's 
accounts for 1967. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the letter to Haskins & 
Sells (copy attached as Item No. 5) requesting that firm to perform the 
services proposed in its letter of March 27, 1967. 
Annual audit of financial statements. At the meeting on 
February 27, 1967, it was noted that the audit of the Board's accounts 
f°r the year ended December 31, 1966, was the fifth such audit conducted 
by 
the firm of Haskins & Sells and that in accordance with the practice 
rotation followed in the past, another firm presumably should be 
selected to perform those services. The matter was referred to Governor 
Shepardson for recommendation as to the procedure to be followed in 
making the selection. 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
There had now been distributed a memorandum from Governor 
Shepardson dated April 11, 1967, recommending that the audit firm be 
chosen at random from among five leading public accounting firms, these 
being the members of the group of the top eight firms that had not pre-
viously been retained by the Board. This would be with the understand-
ing that if pending litigation against the firm selected or adverse 
recent publicity should appear to warrant a different selection, another 
firm would be chosen. 
Attached to Governor Shepardson's memorandum was a report dated 
March 24, 1967, from Mr. Kakalec, Controller, relating to questions 
raised at the meeting on February 27 with respect to the composition 
°f the list of public accounting firms from which a selection might be 
made. The report indicated generally that according to available infor-
mation the eight firms most prominent in the profession a number of 
years ago on a volume basis continued to maintain that standing. 
Governor Brimmer expressed disappointment that the staff report 
appeared to be based principally on noncurrent data. He inquired 
whether conditions might not have changed within recent years in such 
a way that an objective study would reveal a basis for the inclusion 
°f additional firms on the list. 
In response, the staff expressed doubt that reasonable criteria 
could be established that would result in the inclusion of additional 
firms. While a number of other accounting firms were prominent in the 

1 5 4 . 3 
4/24/67 
-21-
profession, their operations either were not national in scope or were 
specialized in nature. From the point of view of the field staff review, 
the use of a firm with a network of offices was advantageous. In sub-
stance, the relative standings of the accounting firms appeared to have 
remained substantially unchanged and the eight largest firms continued 
to dominate. 
After further discussion, unanimous approval was given to the 
selection of an accounting firm according to the procedure recommended 
by Governor Shepardson. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman and Solomon 
then withdrew from the meeting. 
Assignments in Division of Examinations. The Board discussed 
assignments of members of the official staff of the Division of Exami-
nations, particularly in the area of supervision over the examinations 
°f the Federal Reserve Banks, and agreed on the appropriateness of plans 
described by Governor Shepardson and Mr. Solomon for a shifting of such 
assignments in view of a prospective retirement within the relatively 
near future. 
Appointment of consultant. Pursuant to a recommendation by 
Governor Robertson, the Board appointed Professor Robert W. Johnson of 
Purdue University as a consultant effective until December 31, 1967, on 
a temporary contractual basis with compensation at the rate of $75 per 
day for each day worked for the Board and with the understanding that 

154.3 
4/24/67 
-21-
transportation expenses and per diem would be paid in accordance with 
the Board's travel regulations. It was understood that Professor 
Johnson would act as a consultant in connection with prospective prob-
administration of "truth-in-lending" legislation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Pursuant to the recom-
mendation in a memorandum from the Division 
of Data Processing, Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board an 
increase in the basic annual salary of 
Hiawatha Wages, Chart Machine Operator in 
that Division, from $6,857 to $7,055, effec-
tive April 24, 1967 (date of entrance upon 
duty). 
lems relating to any assignment to the Board of responsibility for 
( 

1545 
BDARD DF G DVERN DRS 
Item No. 1 
4/24/67 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
April 24, 1967. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in reply to your Legislative Referral Memorandum 
of March 31, 1967, requesting the views of the Board on a Treasury 
draft bill "To make permanent the authority for more flexible 
regulation of maximum rates of interest or dividends, higher 
reserve requirements, and open market operations in agency issues." 
The Board believes that it would be advisable to defer 
the introduction of a bill either to make permanent or to extend 
the authority contained in the Act of September 21, 1966 (80 Stat. 
823), until after July 1, 1967, in order that more experience may 
be gained in operating under the terms of the present statute and 
Particularly to appraise developments over the mid-year interest 
and dividend crediting period. In the Board's view, premature 
introduction of legislation would be likely to interfere with the 
normal and desirable adjustment of rates paid oil savings deposits 
and share accounts to changing conditions in financial markets. 
For these reasons the Board recommends that consideration 
°f the introduction of the draft bill be deferred at least until 
July 1. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1546 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
WASHINOTON 
o r 
T H E 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 2 
4/24/67 
April 24, 1967 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request of January 26, 1967, 
for the Board's views on S. 356, "To permit the establishment and 
operation of certain branch offices by the Michigan National Bank, 
Lansing, Michigan." This bill is identical with S. 308 of the 89th 
Congress and S. 2883 of the 88th Congress. 
The Board reported to your Committee on those bills by 
letters of September 8, 1965, and July 27, 1964, respectively, and 
did not recommend favorable consideration in either case. The 
circumstances surrounding the proposal have not changed, and there 
appears to be no reason for the Board to modify its previous position. 
Accordingly, the Board does not favor enactment of S. 356. 
Sincerely yours, 

154/7 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
OF THE 
4/24/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 25, 1967 
Mr. Laurence H. Stone, 
General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 
Dear Mr. Stone: 
This is in reply to your letter of March 22, 1967, to 
Mr. Hackley, submitting a question presented by the State Street 
Bank and Trust Company, Boston, Massachusetts, as to whether 
reserves must be maintained against trust funds deposited by the 
trust department of the bank in that bank's commercial or banking 
department. The member bank takes the position that reserves 
should not be required on these funds since the pledge of securi-
ties for the full amount of the deposited funds, as required by 
the laws of Massachusetts, and the proper earmarking of such funds 
in its commercial department constitute proper segregation of such 
funds for purposes of section 204.2(d) of Regulation D which pro-
vides that -
"A member bank exercising trust powers need not 
maintain reserves against trust funds which it keeps 
properly segregated as trust funds and apart from its 
general assets or which it deposits in another institu-
tion to the credit of itself as trustee or other 
fiduciary. If, however, such funds are mingled with 
the general assets of the bank, a deposit liability 
thereby arises against which reserves must be maintained." 
It is the Board's understanding that, although the member 
bank states that the trust funds deposited in the commercial depart-
ment are earmarked, such trust funds will not enjoy any preference 
a s against other depositors of the bank, and that the bank uses the 
funds thus deposited in its general banking business. It, would 
appear, therefore, that since such funds are mingled with the general 
assets of the bank, a deposit liability arises against which reserves 
must be maintained unless an exception can be made for funds which 
a re fully secured. 

1548 
Mr. Laurence H. Stone 
-2-
It is the opinion of the Board that the fact that the 
trust funds are fully secured does not relieve the member bank of 
its obligation to maintain reserves against such deposits. In a 
1922 ruling, the Board held that if a national bank mingles trust 
funds with its general assets under authority of section ll(k) of 
the Federal Reserve Act, a deposit liability thereby arises which 
is subject to reserve requirements. Under the terms of section ll(k) 
referred to in that ruling, trust funds could be deposited in the 
commercial department of a national bank only upon the pledge of 
securities approved by the Board. The Board's ruling that reserves 
are required on such funds was obviously made with the knowledge 
that the deposited trust funds were required to be secured. Al-
though the above-described provision formerly contained in 
section 11(k) is no longer a part of the Federal Reserve Act, 
the substance of that statutory provision is presently applicable 
to national banks, and the above ruling of the Board is applicable 
to member State banks of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the member bank's argument that reserves 
need not be maintained against secured trust funds deposited in 
the commercial department of the same bank would lead to the con-
clusion that reserves should not be required against any deposit 
which is fully secured. Such a result would lead to undesirable 
results from the standpoint of monetary policy and System super-
vision of member banks. 
The Board has concluded, therefore, that the deposit, of 
trust funds by the trust department of a member bank in that bank's 
commercial department gives rise to a deposit liability against 
which reserves must be maintained. It would be appreciated if you 
Would advise the member bank of the Board's decision. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1549 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
4/24/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 24, 1967 
Mr. Edward A. Wayne, Chairman, 
Executive Committee, 
Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Wayne: 
The Board has given consideration to proposals for changes 
in the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks in accordance 
with your letter of April 6, 1967. If formally submitted by the 
Board of Trustees of the Retirement System, the Board of Governors 
is prepared to approve amendments to the Rules and Regulations of 
the Retirement System substantially as follows, effective July 1, 
1967: 
A. In the case of members retiring on special service 
retirement prior to age 65, where the retiring member's age plus 
his years of service is at least 80 at the time of retirement, his 
pension shall be equal to 1 per cent of his final average salary 
for each year of service upon retirement at or after age 60, plus 
the actuarial equivalent of his pension payable at age 65 equal to 
3/4 of 1 per cent of his final average salary in excess of $4,800. 
For those retiring prior to age 60, and who meet the "Rule of 80," 
the pension shall be the actuarial equivalent of the pension payable 
at age 60. 
B. Supplemental allowances of retired members, on a one-
time adjustment basis, as follows: 
1. The retirement allowances of the following groups of 
retirees be supplemented, effective July 1, 1967: 
a. Service retirees with five or more years of service. 
b. Disability retirees. 
c. Special service retirees who meet the "Rule of 80" 
whether or not they retired on a deferred basis. In the case of 
those who retired on a deferred basis, however, the supplement would 
be withheld until such members start to receive their allowances, 
and the supplement would be determined as of the date of retirement. 

HOARD 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
1.550 
Mr. Edward A. Wayne 
-2-
d. Survivor annuitants of all of the above. 
2. The eligible retirees who retired in or before the 
calendar year of 1950 be granted the same supplement in view of 
the adjustment made in 1949 in the retirement allowances of the 
members who had previously retired and that, in view of the change 
in the pension formula made on July 1, 1964, members retiring after 
that date be ineligible for the supplement. 
3. The retirement allowances now being paid to eligible 
members or their survivor annuitants, including the supplements 
granted in May 1949 and April 1953, but not the one granted outside 
the framework of the Retirement System in August I960, be supple-
mented by 2 per cent for each year between the year of retirement 
and 1967, but not more than 34 per cent. 
4. The minimum supplement be $1 a month. 
In the consideration of the foregoing amendments, it is 
understood by the Board that both proposals will be funded from 
the unallocated reserves of the Retirement System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

Of GOW*., 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
4/24/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 25, 1967. 
Haskins & Sells, 
1000 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 
20036 
Dear Sirs: 
Acknowledgment is made of your letter of March 27, 1967 
commenting on certain of the matters referred to in the report of 
your 1966 review of the work of the Board's examining staff in 
examinations of Federal Reserve Banks, and proposing services you 
consider appropriate in continuing the engagement during the year 
1967. It is understood that such services would include your 
regular field visit to one of the Reserve Banks while it is 
undergoing examination, for the purpose of observing and evaluating 
the effectiveness of the examination procedures, and advisory 
assistance to the Division of Examinations on related matters. 
The Board has approved your proceeding in the current 
year with the services as outlined. With regard to your observa-
tion of the examining staff in the performance of an examination, 
you will as in the past have full discretion regarding the scope 
of your review, the manner in which it will be conducted and the 
choice of the examination to be the subject of your study. It is 
understood that your compensation will be on the basis of your 
regular fee rates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
