MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 28, 1969 

3250 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 28, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 3:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

10/28/69 
-2-
VFCR. Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting on 
October 14, 1969, Governor Brimmer had been negotiating with the 
other participant agencies regarding the terms of the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program for 1970. With a memorandum dated 
October 27 he furnished to the members of the Board drafts of a press 
release and revised guidelines. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed tentative agreement 
with the approach suggested by Governor Brimmer. 
It was understood that 
after working out further details with the other agencies he would 
present the final form of the program to the Board for review in the 
near future. 
Several staff members then withdrew and Mr. Holmes, Manager, 
System Open Market Account, joined the meeting. 
Commercial paper. At its meeting on October 22, 1969, the 
Board discussed, but held for further consideration, the question of 
publishing for comment a notice of proposed rule making that would 
(1) apply Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, to funds obtained by a 
member bank through the issuance of commercial paper by (a) an organi-
zation that controls a majority of the stock of a member bank and (b) a 
corporation that is majority-controlled by such an organization; and 
(2) clarify the applicability of (a) Regulation Q and Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, to funds obtained by a subsidiary of a member 

10/28/69 
-3-
bank through the issuance of such paper and (b) Regulation Q to funds 
obtained by a subsidiary of a registered bank holding company through 
the issuance of such paper. A revised draft notice of proposed rule 
making had now been distributed reflecting elements of the previous 
discussion. 
The documentation that had provided background for the discussion 
on October 22 had been supplemented also by a memorandum to Chairman 
Martin from Mr. Holland dated October 28 outlining a possible position 
to be taken by the Board with respect to commercial paper issued by 
bank holding companies; the position used an approach somewhat broader 
than that in the Legal Division's two draft notices. 
In a memorandum dated September 2, 1969, the Legal Division 
had indicated that the proposal was limited to the use of interest rate 
ceilings in Regulation Q, which the Division believed would effectively 
prevent bank affiliates from serving, in an objectionable way, as sources 
of funds for bank lending. Although the practices in question avoided 
reserve requirements as well as interest rate ceilings, the practical 
difficulties of applying Regulation D would be greater than those 
associated with the application of Regulation Q, and therefore it seemed 
advisable to avoid unnecessary controversy. Mr. Holland's memorandum 
of October 28 suggested, among other things, that at an appropriate time 
the broadened version of the proposed amendment to Regulation Q be 

o t r o 
^(O'JU 
10/28/69 
-4-
published for comment. He suggested also that the staff be directed 
to continue to study methods for applying reserve requirements to the 
activities in question (either under existing law, or under new legis-
lation) , with a view to relying eventually more on reserve requirements 
and less on interest rate ceilings as a means of exerting appropriate 
monetary influence over such activities. 
Discussion at today's meeting included comments by Mr. Holmes 
regarding probable impacts on money markets of the publication of the 
notice of proposed rule making. There was general agreement that it 
would be preferable to use reserve requirements rather than interest 
rate ceilings to deter member banks from obtaining funds through issuance 
of commercial paper by their holding company affiliates. Under existing 
law that did not appear to be feasible. However, the staff expressed 
the view that there would be little difficulty in obtaining specific 
statutory authority to impose reserve requirements. 
Discussion disclosed a consensus that some indication should be 
given to the banking community that the Board was seriously considering 
aPPlying Regulation Q interest rate ceilings to funds obtained through 
commercial paper issued by holding company affiliates. 
To that end, 
the Board agreed that the proposed amendment to Regulation Q be published. 
Governors Mitchell and Maisel dissented from this action, preferring to 
await specific legislative authority that would permit the use of reserve 
requirements to accomplish the purpose. 

10/28/69 
-5-
The notice of proposed rule making included a statement that 
the Board considered that Regulations D and Q at present applied to 
funds obtained by member banks through issuance of commercial paper by 
their subsidiaries. Governor Maisel dissented from the Board's action 
with respect to that statement, feeling that it would be unfair to 
foreclose that practice abruptly for organizations that had been under 
the impression that Regulations Q and D did not apply to such funds. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Note: At Chairman Martin's request a follow-up meeting with 
reference to the foregoing matter was held in the Board Room at 2:45 p.m. 
on Wednesday, October 29. Board members present, in addition to the 
Chairman, included Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
The Board's Secretary also was present along with several other appro-
priate staff members. 
As explained by the Chairman, a request had been received from 
Governor: Maisel, who was currently out of town, that the Board defer 
release of the portion of its announcement in which it would be confirmed 
that obligations issued by subsidiaries of a member bank were, under 
present provisions of Regulations Q and D, in the same status as obliga-
tions issued directly by the bank and accordingly were covered by section 
217.1(f) of Regulation Q and section 204.1(f) of Regulation D. Governor 
Maisel desired further discussion of the interpretation on Friday 

10/28/69 
-6-
following his return to Washington. 
If, however, other members of the 
Board were not agreeable to the delay, he would like to have the material 
issued this afternoon include a statement with respect to his position. 
In discussion several reasons were advanced as militating against 
the proposed delay, one being that some members of the Board would not 
be available on Friday. Another was that it would be desirable if members 
of the banking community and other interested parties could have the 
benefit of reading the regulatory proposal and the interpretation of the 
existing situation as parts of the same package. During the discussion, 
in the course of which reference was made to procedures that had been 
followed by the Board in the past in connection with the issuance of 
interpretations, Governor Mitchell, who along with Governor Maisel had 
looked with disfavor on publishing the Regulation Q proposal for comment, 
confirmed that he did not take exception to the interpretation. 
Accordingly, although members of the Board were generally 
sympathetic toward accommodating Governor Maisel in whatever way might 
be practicable, it was decided to proceed with issuance of the complete 
announcement this afternoon. 
The material, however, was adjusted some-
what in respect to acknowledging Governor Maisel's position on the 
interpretation, the thought being that upon his return Governor Maisel 
could, if he so desired, then issue an explanatory statement on his own 
behalf. 

O O tT 
10/28/69 
-7-
A copy of the notice, as subsequently issued and published in 
the Federal Register, is attached under Item No. 1, along with a copy 
of the Board's press release. 
/try Secretary 
u/tn 
i;t 
iiJrl 

sr. \c:- irv ix." j y 
j 
: f>"! iK «'C: ir 
\. / ic 
MW 
'^fep 
lK: 
-
/ 
J3| -i & >: 5 
0 m
& r 
" 
' 
.Item No. 1 
10/28/69 
For immediate release. 
October 29, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today it is considering amending its rules governing 
the payment jf interest on deposits (Regulation Q) to apply to 
funds received by member banks from the issuance of commercial 
paper or similar obligations by bank affiliates. Comments on the 
proposal should be received by the Board not. later than December 1. 
Included Xvrithin the coverage of the proposal is commercial 
paper issued by a member bank's parent company-- either a one-bank 
holding company or a company registered under the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act--or by a collateral affiliate of i member bank in a holding 
company system. 
Governors Mitchell and Maiscl would have preferred to 
deal with the issuance of commercial paper by bank holding companies 
and their affiliates by looking to expanded legislative authority 
which would f;pecifically include the power to make reserve requirements 
applicable in an appropriate fashion to funds raised by these means. 
The text of the proposal is attached. 
-0-

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 217] 
[Reg, Q] 
Certain Borrowings by Bank Affiliates as Deposits 
The Board of Governors is considering amending 5 217.1(f) 
of Regulation Q to add the following sentence: "For the purposes 
of this part, 'deposits' of a member bank also include the liability 
of (i) an organization that controls a majority of the stock of tha 
bank or (ii) a corporation that is majority-controlled by such an 
organization on any promissory note, acknowledgment of advance, due 
bill, or similar obligation (written or oral), with a maturity of two 
years or less, that is issued or undertaker, principally as a means 
of supplying funds to the bank for use in its banking business, or 
maintaining t.ne availability of such funds." 
The main purpose of this proposal is to apply the rules 
governing pa>ment of interest on deposits (Regulation Q) to funds 
received by member banks as the result of issuance, by affiliates of 
the banks, oi obligations commonly described as commercial paper. 
Types of obligations within the coverage of this proposal 
are corrmercial paper issued for the specified purpose by a member 
bank's parent company - either one-bank or registered under the Bank 
Holding Company Act - or by a collateral affiliate of a member bank 
in such a holding company system. 

32-59 
In the board's judgment, adoption of a proposal along these 
lines is necessary because the purposes of section 19 of the Federal 
Reserve Act are iii danger of being frustrated, to a substantial degree, 
as a result of tha issuance cf commercial paper by bank affiliates cf 
the types described, the proceeds being channeled to the bank for lend-
ing and investing. 
The proposal does not refer to issuar.ee of obligations by 
subsidiaries of number banks, l'n a related action, on which Governor 
Maisel dissented, the Board determined that obligations of such subsidiaries 
are, under present; provisions of both Regulations Q and D, in the same status 
as obligations issued directly by the bank, and, accordingly, covered by 
5 217.1(f) of Regulation Q and § 204.1(f) of Regulation D. Sec 12 CFR 
250.141; 196C Fed. Res. Bulletin 601. 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
United States Code, and 5 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure of the 
Board of Governors. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, interested 
persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or arguments. Any ruch 
material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not 
lat er than December X, 1969, Under the Board's rules regarding availability 
of information (12 CFR Part 261), such materials will be made available for 
inspection and cop zing upon request unless the person submitting the material 
requests that it b2 considered confidential. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 23, 1969. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrcstal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
