Minutes for June 10, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act entries covering the items in this set of 
minutes commencing on the pages and dealing with the subjects 
referred to below: 
Page 4 
Amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding 
Companies. 
Page 9 
Policy Statement on the Payments Mechanism. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

142 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, June 10, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Cleveland Bank. The Board was informed of the wording of action 
proposed to be taken by the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland appointing Dr. Willis J. Winn as President of the 
Bank, effective September 1, 1971, for the unexpired portion of the 
five-year term ending February 29, 1976, with salary at an annual rate 
of $51,000 for the remainder of the year 1971. 
The appointment of Dr. Winn was approved unanimously, along 
with payment to him of salary at the annual rate of $51,000 for the 
Period September 1 through December 31, 1971. 
The Board was also informed, in this connection, that the 
directors proposed to place on record the following understanding: 
It was further agreed that the Board of Directors of 
the Bank will review Dr. Winn's performance within one year, 
and, based upon that review, will consider recommending a 
salary adjustment at the end of his first year's service, 
subject to the approval of the Board of Governors. It is 
understood that the Board of Governors would waive the 
2-year adjustment provision as stated in the Board's officer 
salary guidelines--that is, that the Board of Governors would 
be willing to give consideration to whatever salary increase 
might be recommended by the Cleveland Reserve Bank in 
September 1972. 

14 34 
6/10/71 
-8-
On the understanding that the foregoing wording did not mean 
that the Board of Governors would be making any commitment to approve 
a salary increase in September 1972, but instead only that it would 
agree to consider whatever increase might be recommended at that time, 
the Board indicated that it would have no objection to the placing on 
record of the foregoing statement. 
The following entered the room at this point: 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Slocum, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Watt, Assistant Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the Secretary 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously an application 
by Great Lakes Holding Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan, to become a bank 
holding company by acquiring shares of Industrial State Bank & Trust 
Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan, and authorized the issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. I. 

14 34 
6/10/71 
-8-
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Counsel for Associated 
Mortgage Investors, a Massachusetts business trust, in response to a 
request for a determination that the share purchase plan of AMI qualified 
for the exemption from credit limitations provided in section 207.4(a)(2) 
of Regulation G, Securities Credit by Persons Other than Banks, Brokers, 
or Dealers. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
With regard to the foregoing matter, Governor Robertson expressed 
the opinion that the pertinent provisions of Regulation G, as presently 
written, were misleading and that the Board should consider amending 
the regulation. He had a suggestion for such an amendment that he would 
refer to the staff for consideration. 
Regulation T. Sullivan & Cromwell, a law firm of New York City, 
had requested that the Board amend Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and 
Dealers, to permit U.S. brokers or dealers to arrange for extensions of 
credit abroad in Euro-dollars to foreign subsidiaries of U.S. corpora-
tions, where the subsidiary is borrowing for the benefit of the U.S. 
Parent. 
As reported in a memorandum of June 2, 1971, the staff recommended 
against an amendment to Regulation T since that would add another exemp-
tion to an already complex regulation for the benefit of a limited 
group of broker/dealers. As an alternative, the staff recommended that 
the Board issue an interpretation to the effect that it viewed the two-
step transaction in reality and in substance as one integrated credit 
transaction solely for the benefit of the U.S. parent. 

14 34 
6/10/71 
-8-
After discussion, the Board agreed unanimously to the issuance 
of such an interpretation. 
(Note: Upon further examination into the 
matter subsequent to the meeting, the staff determined that the issuance 
of a general interpretation was unnecessary. Accordingly, the substance 
of the approved Board view was incorporated into a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3.) 
'J V' 
v. 
I '•/ ; ; 
:. ' , t ..... 
... 
• 
. I 
- '' ' • • r 
Truth in lending litigation. A Federal District Court hearing 
a private class action against Mobil Oil Corporation that involved 
allegations of violation of the Truth in Lending Act had requested the 
views of the Board and the Federal Trade Commission as to whether 
f'U:> -.'O L ;.<..-. 
• 
0 {v i.. > 5 
' 
. 
Mobil's credit card plan was within the scope of Regulation Z, Truth in 
Lending, during the period in question. 
There had been prepared a joint Board-FTC amicus curiae brief 
that the staff of the Board, in conjunction with the staff of the 
Commission, proposed to ask the Department of Justice to file in 
response to the Court's request. 
The filing of the brief was authorized. A copy of the brief 
c t I . 
has been placed in the Board's files. A copy of the letter sent to 
the Department of Justice is attached as Item No. 4. 
Bank Holding Company Act: data processing. The Board had 
Published for comment a proposal to amend Regulation Y, Bank Holding 
Companies, so as to permit a bank holding company to acquire a subsidiary 
that would engage in the following: 

14 34 
6/10/71 
-8-
"providing bookkeeping or data processing services 
for (i) the holding company or its subsidiaries, (ii) other 
financial institutions or (iii) others, Provided, That the 
value of services performed by the company for such persons 
is not a principal portion of the total value of all such 
services performed." 
After review of comments received and the record of a hearing 
held on April 16, 1971, the Legal Division advised in a memorandum of 
June 7, 1971, that in its opinion a qualitative description of services 
that the Board determined were closely related to banking was legally 
more sound and administratively more workable than any description 
I a 1: :i: i i >u . uj, ^ru) T. 
L • 
t 
involving a quantitative test of services that might be performed for 
; 
- i.-'J. I> 
6 >.'U J 
.."'Jfr • i, V 
iv' 
- 
' 
' 
v 
.,'•.," 
the public. The Division recommended that the Board adopt an amendment 
Kt^uv^r tiMi" 
>.4 
* t 
;v: .-,( >• »• .<.» -t-. •• 
.. 
•: •• 
•<. •;•••• ••• .5 : 
to section 222.4(a) of Regulation Y to permit bank holding companies, 
directly or through a subsidiary, to engage in: 
"storing or processing banking, financial, or other 
economic data, such as performing payroll, accounts 
receivable or payable, or billing services." 
The Division believed that certain activities involving the 
use of computers in performing permissible data processing services 
could properly be regarded as incidental activities necessary to carry 
°n the permissible services. Such incidental activities would include 
sale of computer time and sale of a by-product of the development of a 
Program for a permissible data processing activity. For clarification, 
the Division recommended that the Board add a paragraph to its recently 
adopted interpretation regarding activities closely related to banking. 

14 34 
6/10/71 
-8-
The Division also believed that some allowance should be made 
for performance of nonfinancially related data processing by a holding 
company in a small community where data processing needs would be most 
efficiently and economically fulfilled by a supplier that had broader 
service capability than the regulation would generally permit. Accord-
ingly, the Division recommended that the interpretation indicate that 
performing such services in those circumstances was regarded as perform-
ing incidental activities necessary to carry on permissible activities. 
In discussion, Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the 
staff had proposed a defensible solution to the problem. He suggested, 
however, that the statement of permissible activities be shortened to 
provide simply for "storing or processing banking, financial, or other 
economic data", and that the illustrations be transferred to the pro-
Posed interpretation. 
The discussion then turned to a sentence in the proposed 
interpretation that indicated that the Board would regard as incidental 
activities necessary to carry on permissible activities in this area 
(d ata processing) the following: (i) making excess computer time 
available to anyone so long as the only involvement by the holding 
company system is furnishing the facility and an operator; (ii) selling 
a by-product of the development of a program for a permissible data 
Processing activity; and (iii) furnishing any data processing service 
uPon request of a customer if that is necessary to provide the most 
efficient and economical data processing services in the market area. 

14 34 
6/10/71 
-8-
Question was raised whether (i) would contemplate furnishing 
personnel other than operators, and whether it would contemplate fur-
nishing programs. Mr. Slocum observed that the problem involved was 
selling excess computer time as against selling excess computer services. 
It was possible, although not likely, that today there would be much 
selling of excess computer time without any related services. It was 
then suggested that the wording of (i) be changed to refer to the 
furnishing of the facility and personnel necessarily incident thereto. 
In connection with the language of (iii), Governor Robertson 
commented that opponents of entry of bank holding companies into data 
processing argued that the holding companies and their subsidiary banks 
could provide services more cheaply and therefore could drive others 
°ut of business. Governor Sherrill noted that (iii) embodied a concept 
intended to have applicability within the small-town context, and after 
some discussion it was generally agreed that it would be better to 
refer to the furnishing of any data processing services if they were 
not otherwise reasonably available in the relevant market area. 
In response to a question, Governor Maisel said he would 
interpret that language to mean that a holding company could not go 
in and start offering nonfinancial types of services, but if there 
Were no computer services available within the relevant market area 
a holding company could offer such services. 

14 34 
6/10/71 
-8-
This led to the question of the permissibility of advertising 
and whether any prohibition, if one was intended, should be included in 
the interpretation. After consideration of this point, the Chairman 
suggested that a prohibition against advertising might carry implica-
tions that were not intended and that the problem of advertising could 
be dealt with later if a problem arose, in which case an amendment to 
the regulation might have to be considered. 
Governor Robertson then asked for clarification of the term 
"or other economic data", as used in the proposed statement that it 
would be permissible for bank holding companies to engage in storing 
or processing banking, financial, or other economic data. He inquired 
what would be excluded, and an example cited was production data. The 
Chairman then commented that the words "such as performing payroll, 
accounts receivable or payable, or billing services", which Governor 
Mitchell had earlier suggested be moved over to the interpretation, 
conveyed to him a meaning that was of some value in defining the term 
"economic data." Essentially, he felt that the Board either should 
give authority broadly to work with economic and financial data or it 
should not. Governor Mitchell suggested use of the words "banking, 
financial, and related economic data", and several Board members 
indicated that they would be agreeable to such a formulation. There 
W as also agreement with a suggestion by the Chairman that the illustra-
tive words earlier suggested for transfer to the interpretation be left 
in the regulatory language. 

14 34 
6/10/71 
-8-
Governor Robertson stated that he could go along with the 
proposal, subject to the amendments agreed upon at this meeting, and 
other Board members expressed themselves to the same effect. Certain 
technical changes in the proposal were then agreed upon. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the amendment of 
section 222.4(a) of Regulation Y, effective July 1, 1971, along with 
the issuance of the interpretive material. Attached under Item No. 5 
are copies of the press statement subsequently issued, and of the 
regulatory amendment and related material as published in the Federal 
Register. 
Policy Statement on the Payments Mechanism. For some time the 
System Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism, of which 
Governor Mitchell was Chairman, had been concerned with the development 
°f a statement of policy concerning critical aspects of the payments 
mechanism. Such a statement had been developed, and it was submitted 
to the Board with a memorandum from Governor Mitchell dated June 7, 
1971, 
with a recommendation that it be adopted and issued. 
The memorandum pointed out that recent developments that had 
Permitted the banking system to cope better with the growing volume of 
cash items had had little effect on the time required to collect a 
cash item, the number of times a cash item must be handled during the 
Process of collection, and the availability of proceeds of a cash item. 
In these circumstances, it was the view of the Committee that every 

14 34 
6/10/71 
- 8 -
reasonable effort should be made (1) to reduce wherever possible the 
volume of items now being processed where the money payments could be 
made more expeditiously and economically in other ways, (2) to expedite 
the collection of items by minimizing the number of handlings, and 
(3) to reduce commercial bank and Federal Reserve float resulting from 
collection activities. 
Other materials submitted with the policy statement included a 
proposed letter to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks and a 
draft of press release. 
Chairman Burns inquired about the likely source and nature of 
any objections, and Governor Mitchell commented on the history of the 
Problem and the Steering Committee's studies. It was his opinion that 
attitudes antagonistic to the proposed changes in the payments system 
had substantially eroded. Within the System there was no longer any 
significant body of opposition, and he believed that opposition within 
the commercial banking sector likewise had diminished. 
Governor Maisel, also a member of the Steering Committee, 
observed that whenever a more efficient system was introduced, parties 
who had been profiting from the less efficient system could be expected 
to object. Thus, if float were cut down, some banks could be expected 
to object. 
Governor Sherrill, likewise a member of the Steering Committee, 
noted that the System was addressing itself to a problem that was down 

1137 
6/10/71 
-li-
the road. The System must anticipate the problem and stay ahead of it. 
He explained the objectives of the proposed procedures and pointed out 
the difficulties that would be involved if the commercial banks attempted 
to introduce a duplicate system. 
Governor Brimmer noted that it appeared that additional services 
would be provided without charge to nonmember banks, for example, in 
connection with the operations of the regional check clearing centers, 
which would run counter to a basic principle of the Federal Reserve 
System. 
In reply, members of the Steering Committee said that this was 
a problem with which the Committee had been concerned. Full participa-
tion in the new system was necessary if it was to work. However, the 
Steering Committee had agreed that there appeared to be ways in which 
it would be possible to differentiate between member and nonmember banks 
insofar as participation in the regional clearing centers was concerned 
without impeding the efficient operation of the centers. Those possi-
bilities were listed by Governor Mitchell, who indicated that the 
problem was still under study. Mr. Mcintosh pointed out that the 
Proposed letter to the Reserve Bank Presidents included a sentence 
stating that it was generally expected that procedures governing partic-
ipation in regional clearing facilities would be conducted in such a way 
that where possible due precedence was given to member banks. However, 
Governor Brimmer observed that a different tone was reflected in the 
Proposed press release. 

14 34 
6/10/71 
- 8 -
Governor Brimmer then suggested that some of the flavor of the 
points brought out in Governor Sherrill's comments today concerning 
the check collection problem and the objectives of the new system be 
included in the press release, and it was agreed that that would be 
done. 
The issuance of the Policy Statement was then approved unanimously, 
Attached under Item No. 6 are copies of the press release, the Policy 
Statement, and the letter sent to the Reserve Bank Presidents. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 
6/10/71 
i • 
• i • 
. 
11, I • 
UNItED StATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, t). C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
GREAT LAKES HOLDING COMPANY, 
Kalamazoo, Michigan, 
approval of action to become a bank 
h°lding company through the acquisition 
not less than 89 per cent, nor more 
than 92 per cent, of the voting shares 
Industrial State Bank & Trust 
Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
3ection 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(l)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Great Lakes Holding Company, 
Kalamazoo, Michigan, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
°f not less than 89 per cent, nor more than 92 per cent, of the voting 
8tlares of Industrial State Bnnk & Trust Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan. 

-2-
1440 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Michigan Commissioner 
o f Financial Institutions and requested his views and recommendation* 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on June 2, 1971 (36 Federal Register 10756), providing 
a n opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
c°nsidered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
^actors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of the 
Proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
a n d future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the 
Corivenience and needs of the communities to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating Michigan corporation recently 
f°cmed for the purpose of acquiring Bank with deposits of $106 million 
a s °f December 31, 1970. As Applicant has no present operations or sub-
v a r i e s , consummation of the proposal would eliminate neither existing 
n°r Potential competition, and there would be no adverse effects on 
CotnPeting banks. 

1441 
Mh 
The acquisition proposed herein would result in Bank's 
becoming a stronger and more viable banking institution, and a moife 
effective competitor in the relevant area. Banking factors involved 
Weigh heavily in favor of approvai of the application since Applicant 
provide Bank with an additional $2 million of needed capital and 
h a s formulated plans to improve Bank's present operating procedures. 
The Michigan Commissioner of Financial Institutions has recommended 
aPproval of the application based on the proposed improvement of Bank's 
caPital position and management under Applicant's control. Whereas there 
is no indication that present banking needs of the area are not being 
adequately served at the present time, it is apparent that consummation 
o f the proposal would strengthen the Bank and enable it to serve 
better the banking needs of its area. Therefore, considerations re-
lating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served also 
lend weight in favor of approval of the application. It is the Board's 
j ud 
S^ent that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, that 
application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acqui-
s*tion so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
°alendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later than three 
0nths after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 

1442 
-4-
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 11, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1 18 
tliw 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2QS51 
Item No. 3 
6/10/71 
ADD ft CSS OFFICIAL DO R WSSMO N DK N DC 
TO THE DOAHO 
June 10, 1971 
Mr. John P. McEnroe. 
Paul, Weiss, Goldberg, 
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison 
345 Park Avenue 
Kew York, New York 10022 
Dear Mr. McEnroe: 
This refers to your letter dated March 31, 1971,-
requesting the Board to determine that the Share Purchase Plan (Plan) 
of Associated Mortgage Investors (AMI) qualifies for the exemption 
from the credit limitations afforded under section 207.4(a)(2) of 
Regulation G, "Securities Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, 
and Dealers". Trustees and officers of AMI and key employees of the 
Trust1s Manager, Associated Mortgage Managers (Ltd.) (Ami) (herein-
after referred to as Purchasers) will be eligible to participate in 
the plan, which will be administered by a committee consisting of 
Trustees and officers of AMI, and will enable Purchasers to acquire 
AMI. shares on credit with repayments to be made to.AMI over a 10-year 
Period. 
To qualify for exemption from the initial margin require-
ments of Regulation G, pursuant to subparagraph (2) of section 207.4(a), 
a plan must require the borrowing officer or employee to make install-
ment: payments at least: quarterly, for at least three years from the 
eXt:ension of the credit, in an amount per annum at least equal to 
per cent of the "deficiency" - the amount by which the credit exceeds 
the maximum loan value of the collateral as prescribed by section 207.3, 
the Supplement to Regulation G. In addition, the plan must provide that 
the officer or employee may not withdraw, pledge, or otherwise dispose 
o f all or any part of the stock until (1) all repayments have been made 
for the three-year period and the deficiency has been repaid, or (2) as 

1441 
Mr. John P. McEnroe 
a result of the repayments described and/or an increase in the market 
value of the collateral, the credit still owing is no longer greater 
than"the amount normally permitted to be lent under the margin rules. 
However, under AMIfs plan, at the time of the credit exten-
sion, the Purchaser would pay 5 per cent of the purchase price to Ahl, 
followed by 39 equal quarterly installments of 1 1/4 per cent each of 
the purchase price, equivalent to a total of 48 3/4 per cent of the 
credit, plus accrued interest due at the rate of 5 per cent per annum, 
and a final installment of 46 1/4 per cent of the purchase price plus 
accrued interest 10 years from the date of the extension of the credit 
Under such plan, repayments made quarterly will be equivalent to 
approximately 8 1/3 per cent of the deficiency each year (25 per cent 
at the end of three years), a lesser percentage than the 60 per cent 
at the end of three years provided for in section Z O / . t W U A i i j . 
To eliminate some of the disparity between the deficiency reduction 
likely to be achieved as a result of the plan s projecteo repayments 
and the percentage specified in section 207.4(a)(2) of Regul.aU.oa 
AMI's "Plan will provide that a Purchaser may not discontinue partic-
ipation 'in the plan prior to the expiration of sev^n years at which 
time 53 1/3 per cent of the deficiency would be reduced, hence, 
through a stretch-out of the required three-year paydown period to 
seven years, the Plan would substitute a lower paydown over a longer 
period for the regulation's higher paydown over a shorter porun. 
Upon consideration of the plan, the Board has decided to grant 
AMIs 
application to permit repayment of the deficiency to be made dj th. 
lesser amount described hereinbefore, provided that such repayment 
is subject to the terms and conditions hereinabove set for Liu 
Section 207.4(a)(2)(iii) of Regulation G provides that the 
restriction as to access to the stock serving as collateral tor the 
credit need not apply when the collateral is required to be sold to 
meet emergency expenses arising from circumstances not reasonably 
foreseeable at the time of the extension of credit. Emergency 
expenses are defined in the regulation to include involuntary teimi-
nation of employment of the Purchaser. It is noted however that 
under Mil's plan, as presently structured, the Purchaser could with-
draw stock at any time. 
_ — ... 
"upon the retirement of the Purchaser after age 62 
(or in the case of a Trustee after age 70) or earlier 
•retirement of the Purchaser due to ill health . 
(paragraph (10) (Hi)) 
While it appears that an early retirement of the Purchaser 
caused by ill health could result in emergency expenses arising fro«i 

1445 
Mr. John P. McEnroe 
circumstances not reasonably foreseeable, when the credit was extended 
necessitating that collateral be sold to meet such expenses, the board 
considers it the better view that regular retirement is usually a 
foreseeable event. Consequently, the Board's granting of M I s 
application hereinbefore stipulated is contingent upon modification 
of the Plan so that, in connection with the provisions set forth in 
paragraph (9) and (10) of the Plan as presently submitted, with 
respect to the withdrawal of shares during the required paydown 
period, paragraph (10) (iii)• as cited hereinbefore, will be stricken. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
• •' 
' 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary 

1 
1446 
BDARD DF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
6/10/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 22, 1971 
the 
Mr. Thomas G. Sloane 
Deputy General Counsel 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
' Dear Mr. Sloane: 
I 
' 
This refers to a letter of January 14, 1971, addressed 
to you by Mitchell Brock, Esq., of Sullivan & Cromwell, and a sub-
sequent letter of March 16, 1971, from Mr. Brock to Mr. Schocdel 
of the Board's staff. Both letters concern the applicability of 
Regulation T to activities of United States securities dealers in 
arranging extensions of credit abroad. 
The letters are both specifically directed toward rules 
the Board might propose in implementing its authority pursuant to 
the 1970 amendments to section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (Public Law 91-508, section 301). Mr. Brock urges that the 
Board's implementation should not bring within the coverage of t 
regulation the type of transaction he describes. However, the 
question has arisen whether Regulation T presently applies to such 
transaction. 
• 
It is understood that U.S. dealers are offering abroad, 
Particularly in Europe, debt obligations issued by a wholly-owned 
financing subsidiary of a U.S. corporation. The obligations are 
generally offered to foreign holders of Eurodollars and are repay-
able in dollars. The proceeds are loaned by the subsidiary to its 
U.S. parent in return for an instrument of indebtedness having 
terms comparable to those of the obligations issued by the subsid-
iary. The instrument of indebtedness is not sold, assigned, trans-
ferred, or pledged by the subsidiary to a third party. The U.S. 
Parent does not use the proceeds of the loan for the purpose of 
Purchasing or carrying securities. 
In many instances, the instrument of indebtedness issued 
by the U.S. parent falls within the definition of a security for 
Purposes of the 1934 Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)). Such a security 

1447 
Mr. Thomas G. Sloane 
-2-
is not to be registered on a national securities exchange or included 
on the Board's list of OTC securities. Under Regulation T, a dealer 
may extend credit only to purchase a security that is so registered 
or listed. Section 220.7(a) prohibits a dealer from arranging for 
the extension of credit by any person to any customer of the dealer 
except on the same terms the dealer could extend such credit. Con-
sequently, if the transaction is viewed as the dealer arranging for 
the subsidiary to borrow to purchase a security, the dealer would be 
violating section 220.7(a). 
The Board believes that, in the circumstances described, 
the security issued by the parent to its wholly-owned subsidiary 
may be disregarded for the purposes of section 220.7(a). The 
essence of the transaction is that the U.S. parent obtains dollar 
funds abroad through its subsidiary for purposes that are consistent 
with Regulation T. Therefore, the dealer may arrange for the sub-
sidiary's borrowing without violating section 220.7(a). 
The Board and its staff will keep this matter in mind 
in implementing the 1970 amendments to Section 7 of the Act, as 
Mr. Brock requested. However, in view of the question that has 
been raised under the present regulation, you may wish to convey 
the Board's views expressed herein to Mr. Brock for his information. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1 1448 
B D A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
6/10/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS DfFlfilAL C D H R C S F>C3 N D E N D E 
TO THE HnARD 
June 14, 1971 
I,. Patrick Gray, III, Esquire 
Assistant Attorney General 
Civil Division 
United States Department of Justice 
Washington, D.C. 20530 
By letter of April 16, 1971, Judge A. L. Marovitz asked 
for the views of the Board and the Federal Trade Commission on 
certain questions raised in connection with motions for summary 
judgment in the above identified class action which involves 
allegations of violations of the Truth in Lending Act. Although 
the Judge's letter requests submission of the views by May 1/, 
1971, the period for reply has been extended by him until 
June 18, 1971. The enclosed amicus curiae brief has been pre-
pared jointly by the staff of the Board and the Federal Trade 
Commission, although the Commission has not yet formally approved 
submission of a joint brief, as opposed to independent briefs. 
Should that approval not be forthcoming, the brief would have to 
be retyped to delete the references to the Commission, Pursuant 
to Mr. Griffith L. Garwood's conversation with Mr. Harland Leathers, 
the brief: is' being transmitted to you for review and submission to 
the Court. The case has been reassigned to Judge Thomas R. McMillen. 
Mr. Charles C. Moore of the staff of the Federal Trade Commission 
will contact Mr. Leathers by Wednesday, June 16, on the status of 
the Commission's participation. 
Attention: Harland F. Leathers, Esquire 
Chief, General Litigation Section 
Re: Garland v. Mobil Oil Corporation 
N.D. ILL. 69 C 2165 
Dear Mr. Gray: 

'.J-s * ' 
1449 
L. Patrick Gray, III, Esquire 
-2-
' . " Vs* 
... 
The brief refers to a previous brief filed on the 
Board's behalf in the Fifth Circuit appeal of Leila Mourning v. 
Family Publications Service (No. 71-1150). The Mourning brief 
is included as an attachment. In order to insure that inclusion 
of the Mourning brief ancl submission of Che views expressed in 
the Garland brief do not prejudice the Government's position in 
Mourning, we have previously asked Michael C. Farrar of the 
Appellate Section, who has responsibility for the Mourning case, 
to review the Garland brief. Mr. Farrar has indicated that he 
finds no objection, from the point of view of Mourning, to 
submitting the Garland brief with the Mourning brief as an 
attachment. 
A 
• ' • 
v . * 
Enclosed with this letter are copies of Judge Marovitz1 
letter of April 16, 1971, his Memorandum Opinion of February 5, 
1971, the Transcript of Proceedings before him on February 5, 
March 2, and April 14, 1971, and the respective briefs of the 
Parties to the litigation. Any questions should be directed to 
.. Mr. Griffith L. Garwood at the Board at Code 147-7413 or 
Mr. Charles C. Moore of the Federal Trade Commission at 
Code 13-23728. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
. 
Enclosures 
: 
v,;! 
• 
" 
> , " 

• A . V - * . 
. P f e i ^ l i i ^ - B 
y M - * ; ^ . 
-A 
.. 
.. 
Item No0 5 
6/10/71 
, 
, 
June 15, 1971 
immediate release 
The Hoard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today an additional amendment to its bank holding company regulation out-
lining the type of data processing activities permissible for bank hold-
companies under the 1970 amendments"to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
The amendment, effective July 1, adds an eighth activity to 
list announced by the Board last month. On May 27, the Board listed 
ecven activities that it found to be closely related to banking, or 
®°naBltig or controlling banks, and thus permissible for bank holding 
c°topanies subject to Board approval in individual cases. 
• Under the amendment announced today, the following activity is 
added to that list: 
"(1) providing bookkeeping or data processing services for the 
Eternal operations of the holding company and its subsidiaries and (2) 
5t°ring and processing other banking, financial, or related economic 
d a t«, r,uc.h as performing payroll, accounts receivable or payable, or 
filing services 
Data processing was among the 10 activities proposed by the 
on January 25 when it announced plans to amend its Bank Holding Com-
P n ny Regulation Y as a first step toward implementing the 1970 amendments 
to the Act. A hearing was held before members of the Board on the data 
»'r°ceRsing proposal on April 16. 
After considering the hearing record and the written comments 
r*cfeived since January, the Board shifted its approach to this activity 

1451 
„ t, 
from the types of customers for whom data processing services are 
performed to the kinds of data being processed. Under the amendment, 
bank holding companies will be permitted--subject to Board approval in 
individual cases--to process banking, financial, oc related economic 
data for any type of customer. 
The original proposal would have permitted a bank holding 
i ' 
company to acquire a subsidiary to provide "bookkeeping or data pro-
cessing services for (1) the holding company and its subsidiaries, 
(2) other financial institutions, or (3) others, Provided * that the 
Value of services performed by the company for such persons was not a 
Principal portion of the total value of all such services performed," 
Two other proposed activities listed by the Board last January-
both relating to insurance activities—are still under consideration. 
A copy of the data processing amendment, together with an 
interpretation relating to this activity, is attached. 

1452 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND EAilKIKG 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
' Ut • 
. . 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 222—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbnnking Activities of Bank Holding Companies 
By notice of proposed rule making published in the Federal 
Agister on January 29, 1971 (36 F.R. 1430), the Board of Governors 
Proposed to implement its regulatory authority under section 4(c)(0) 
fc'ae Bank Holding Company Act to permit holding companies to engage 
i^ectly or through a subsidiary in "providing bookkeeping or data 
ProcesQing cervices for (i) the holding company and its subsidiaries, 
other financial institutions or (iii) others, Provided, That the 
V T1 
U c of services performed by the company for such persons is not a 
.. . ' 
A \ 
Plri^ipai portion of the total value of all such services performed". 
A hearing was held before members of the Board on April 16, 
l97i > on the question of the extent to which data processing services 
ate so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as 
b e a proper incident thereto" within the meaning of section 4(c)(8) 
of t h 
e Act. The notice of hearing set forth several alternatives to the 
Propor..,! 
°UJ- announced in January that had been suggested in written comment* 
Oft 
"e proposal for consideration by the Board in describing data process 
iii > 
^-rvices that are closely related to banking (36 F.R. 5622). 
• •» 

1453 
-4-
Following consideration of the comments received and the 
record of the hearing, the Board has abandoned the quantitative approach 
its proposal in favor of a qualitative description of services the 
Board has determined are closely related to banking. Accordingly, it 
has amended § 222.4(a) by changing the period at the end thereof to a 
semicolon and adding subparagraph (8) as set forth below, effective 
July ip 1 9 7 1 . 
To clarify the Board's views on this matter, it has added a 
Paragraph to 5 222.123, its recently adopted interpretation on activities 
Closely related to banking. That paragraph is also set forth below: 
§ 222.4 Nonbanking activities. 
(a) Activities closely related to banking or managing or 
controlling banks. * * * The following activities have been determined 
bV the Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling 
. 'v.'--/.. .. 
. . . . 
banks as to be a proper incident thereto: 
& it Vr 
(8) (i) providing bookkeeping or data processing services for 
internal operations of the holding company and its subsidiaries and 
storing and processing other banking, financial, or related economic 
data, such as performing payroll, accounts receivable or payable, or 
b i U i n g services. 
rt 
Vf 
w 
* 
* 
S 222,123 Activities closely related to banking. 
•k 
-k 
* 
* 
* 
(g) Data processing. The authority of holding companies under 
to engage in data processing activities is intended to permit 
hiding companies to process, by means of a computer or otherwise, data 

1451 
-3-
i 
for others of the kinds banks have processed, by one means or another, 
in 
conducting their internal operations and accommodating their customers. 
It is not intended to permit holding companies to engage in automated 
data processing activities by developing programs either upon their 
>. • 'Ji . , 
_ 
.. , ; i;- 
, 
. • .' 
........... 
°Wn initiative or upon request, unless the data involved are financially 
• 
;r
;\y •. • 
* , 
»•• 
!,.} v . 
. *'t. . i 13 i> v VtZi. il 'X t 
-kj'ii iii>\r 
oriented. The Board regards as incidental activities necessary to carry 
the permissible activities in this area the following: 
(i) making 
excess computer time available to anyone so long as the only involvement 
by the holding company system is furnishing the facility and necessary 
operating personnel; (ii) selling a byproduct of the development of a 
Program for a permissible data processing activity; and (iii) furnishing 
nriy data processing service upon request of a customer if such data 
Processing service is not otherwise reasonably available in the relevant 
market area. 
Effective date. July 1, 1971. 
v. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 10, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
tSEAL] 

^ 
A 
ii 
^ i^' i/1 
jp^'j::V: 
• B^fi swajwr 
*1 4 
^M 
'
•
|
i
i
| 
v l M i i - - ^ 
i ^ i i 
ilSSwSw1'. * 
Item No. 6 
6/10/71 
For release in morning papers 
Friday, June 1.8, 1971 
* 
J u n e 
1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued a policy statement calling for basic changes in the nation's 
system for handling money payments. These are, essentially, transi-
tional steps toward replacing the use of checks with electronic trans-
fer of funds. 
The Board's Statement was directed to the Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks. It said that modernization of the nation's 
means of making financial transactions through the banking system "is 
becoming a matter of urgency." 
The Board's sense of urgency was based upon estimates that 
check volume will at least double in the present decade. Some 62 
Million checks a day—about 22 billion a year—are written in the 
Unitcd States, setting in motion the transfer of more than $16 trillion 
a year at the present time. In 1970, the Federal Reserve System cleared 
^Proximately 8 billion checks, transferring just over $3 trillion from 
° n° account to another. 
An average check passing through the clearing process is 
llQndled 10 times under present procedures. Despite the progress to 
d "i 
a t e in mechanization and automation, increases in productivity are 
limited by the fact that the processing of checks continues to require 
* Substantial amount of hand labor. This, together with mounting check 
V° l u m c e> presents banks with a problem of constantly rising costs for 

145C 
-2-
their check handling operations. The Board's Policy Statement addresses 
itself to this mounting problem. 
The Board's Policy Statement placed "high priority" upon 
providing the public with faster, more convenient and more dependable 
check clearing services, by increasing the speed and efficiency of 
check handling. In part, the Board's plans callcd for this to be accom-
plished through establishment of new regional clearing centers through-
out the country. 
The Board asked for action "to achieve as soon as possible 
an accelerated flow of funds along more optimal routing patterns" 
Across tiie nation, in two initial ways: 
1. Structi'-al chanpes in handling and settlement of checks: 
This would involve two alterations in the existing money 
Payments system. First, zones of same-day settlement -- in immediately 
available money -- now operating in cities with Reserve Bank offices, 
Would be expanded geographically. Second, new regional centers would 
ke established, wherever warranted, for rapid check clearance in imme-
diately available funds. 
In both cases, the Board has in mind clearing areas as large 
a s permitted by reliable arrangements for overnight presentation and 
settlement of items. 
2 • Operational changes: 
These would be aimed at reducing dependence upon checks by 
encouraging banks and their customers to make greater use of the ex-
panded capabilities of the Federal Reserve System's communications 
ttfctwork. 

1457 
-2-
Iriducements to begin replacement of money transfers by check 
with transfers via wire would be offered by (1) removing chargcs and 
other restrictions upon the use of the Federal Reserve's wire network 
by member banks for transfers of $1,000 or more for 
their customers, (2) increasing the number of hours the network is 
open for business daily, and (3) expanding facilities at Reserve offices, 
whore justified by traffic potentials, to equip them for high speed tape 
transmission and computer-to-computer communications. 
This would permit linkups, chiefly of commercial bank com-
puters through the u?;e of Federal Reserve facilities, allowing virtually 
instantaneous payment, without charge for the wire service, from a com-
mercial bank in one part of the nation to a commercial bank in any other 
Part, where both banks are Federal Reserve members and have computerized 
accounting of their customers' deposit balances. 
With respect to timing, the Policy Statement said; 
"The first objective should be expansion of the geographic 
area of existing immediate payment, zones. This should be accomplished 
as soon as ne.cessary arrangements can be made. Meantime, studies looking 
to the establishment of new clearing centers, wherever warranted, should 
be undertaken promptly by each Federal Reserve Bank, and submitted to 
the Board for review. Expansion of facilities at Federal Reserve offices 
for increased access to the Reserve System's wire network should be con-
cluded at the earliest practicable time.,," 
The board's Policy Statement was prepared in collaboration 
with the Federal Reserve System Steering Committee on Improving the 

1458 
-2-
Payments Mechanism, headed by Reserve Board Governor George W, Mitchell. 
Other members are Governors Sherman J. Maisel and William W. Sherrill, 
Reserve Bank Presidents George H. Clay of Kansas City, Aubrey N. Heflin 
of Richmond, and Eliot J. Swan of S.uii Francisco, and the First Vice 
Presidents of the Chicago and the New York Reserve Banks, Ernest T. 
Baughman and William F. Treiber. The Steering Committee was assisted 
by the Committee and Subcommittee on Collections of the Conference of 
First Vice Presidents of the Reserve Banks. Preparation of the state-
inert involved extensive consultation among Reserve Banks and with com-
mercial. banks. 
The Policy Statement confirmed the Federal Reserve System's 
commitment to a nationwide direct, fast and economical system for the 
transfer of funds and settlement of balances. The immediate aim is a 
reduction, across the nation, of the volume of items now being handled, 
speeding settlement by minimizing handling of checks, and reduction of 
commercial bank and Federal Reserve float resulting from delays in 
settlements. 
Expansion of areas of fast clearing and settlement in imme-
diately available funds is appropriate, in the Board's opinion, due to 
increasing urbanization and improvement of highway systems surrounding 
major cities, and the growing utilization, even in small banks, of 
centralized electronic accounting for demand deposits. 
During the past year zones of immediate payment surrounding 
the Kansas City, the Minneapolis and the Denver Federal Reserve offices 

1459 
-2-
have been expanded. The first -- experimental -- new regional clearing 
center was established for the Washington-Baltimore area, and is now 
in its second year of successful operation. The second such regional 
clearing center will become operational in Miami, Florida, this year. 
Looking to the future, the Reserve System has three projects 
in being for further improvement of the payments mechanism: 
1. Construction of a payments mechanism simulation model for 
the System, to be used both to understand better the present payments 
system and to indicate in what ways it can and should be improved. 
2. An in-depth study of exactly how payments are effected 
in Florid,? and Georgia, being done by the Georgia Institute of Tech-
nology for the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
3. The cooperative participation, in California, of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and its Branch at Los Angeles 
with a Special Committee on Paperless Entry (SCOPE) through which com-
mercial bank groups are attempting to reduce check volume by substi-
tuting electronic means of transferring money. 
Meantime, the Reserve System's wire network is being both ex-
panded and converted to higher speed operation. It includes a communi-
cations center at Culpepcr, Virginia linking the Board and all Reserve 
offices, and is capable of extension to commercial banks. 
A copy of the Board's Policy Statement is attached. 
-0-

STATEMENT OF POLICY ON 
THE PAYMENTS MECHANISM 
Increasing the speed and efficiency with which the rapidly 
hunting volume of checks is handled is becoming a matter of urgency, 
^ i l electronic facilities begin to replace check transfer in substan-
tial volume, the present system is vulnerable to serious transportation 
and manpower shortages I Structural changes in the present check 
cio ' 
Gating system can effect significant savings in manpower and unneces-
Sai:y handling of checks. These changes will result in faster, more 
and more economical banking services for the public. They 
reduce the cost of operations. The Federal Reserve Board therefor 
tQtes as a matter of policy that It places high priority upon efforts 
bV tl 
^ytnc 
^ the Federal Reserve System to improve the nation's means of making 
ients, initially along the following lines: 
1. Extending present clearing arrangements, in cities 
with Federal Reserve offices, into larger zones of 
imirtcdiate payment, consistent with transportation possi-
bilities, check volumes, and the location of check 
processing centers. 
2. Establishing other regional clearing facilities, in 
which setr.loments are made in immediately available funds, 
located wherever warranted by the need for more expeditious 
and economical check handling, or other operating and 
financial conditions. 

146"* 
X 
-2-
3, 
(a) Encouraging banks and their customers to 
make greater use of the expanded capabilities 
of the Federal Reserve wire transfer system. 
(b) Removing restrictions on third party transfers of 
demand deposits, and extending the time period in which 
the wire transfer system con"bemused. 
i 
(c) Expanding facilities at Reserve Bank offices, 
where justified by traffic potentials, to include 
high speed tape transmission, and computer-to-computer 
communications. 
Plans for making these basic changes in the present money 
^ansfer system should be pursued actively, to achieve as soon as pos-
aibl 
Xh 
e an accelerated flow of funds along more optimal routing patterns 
e g G initiatives are generally intended to supplement those efficient 
dilect check exchange programs that are now in existence. 
The first objective should be expansion of the geographic 
aire 
Qs 
a of existing immediate payment zones. 
This should be accomplished 
s°on as necessary arrangements can be made. Meantime, studies look-
in 8 to the establishment of new clearing centers, wherever warranted, 
8,1°uld be undertaken promptly by each Federal Reserve Bank, and sub-
tnitted to the Board for review. 
Expansion of facilities at Federal 
*«ae 
-rve offices for increased access to the Reserve System's wire net-
V k should be concluded at the earliest practicable time, generally 
t l nB the next 12 to 18 months. 
-0-
N o 1971 

146 
o 
/O 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R B 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
S-2165 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D H R E S P D N P E N C E 
T O 
"THE G O A P D 
June 11, 1971 
The accompanying Policy Statement on the Payments Mechanism 
reflects the Board's sense of urgency in moving toward a more modern 
system for making financial payments throughout the United States. 
The Board regards the changes suggested in its Policy State-
ment as initial steps in a major revitalization of the nation's facili-
ties for making financial transactions through the banking system, with 
fcwo basic aims: 
I 1. Exploitation of currently available communications 
technology, to increase the speed and efficicncy, 
and lower the costs, of financial transactions 
made through the banking system. 
2* To increase the convenience to the public of 
making payments through the banking system while 
keeping the costs of doing so as reasonable as 
possible with check processing technology, 
despite the fact that check volume--unless sub-
stituted in large part by wire transfer—will 
at least double in the current decade. 
The changes suggested build upon the extensive substitution 
has already taken place in the Federal Reserve System, and in banks, 
o f electronic and mechanical means for clerical means of handling pay-
mefct3 data. 
The changes also build upon other improvements already in 
e i n 8 in the payments mechanism, chiefly, direct check exchange, and 
^Perimcntal widening of areas of settlement with immediately available 
fund s. 
The Board's Policy Statement was prepared in collaboration 
1th the System Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism, 

-2-
1463 
made up of Governor Mitchell, Chairman, Governor Maisel and Governor 
Sherrill, together with Reserve Bank Presidents Clay, Heflin, and Swan, 
and First Vice Presidents Baughman and Treiber, as well as the Committee 
and Subcommittee on Collections of the Conference of First Vice Presidents, 
The Board believes that rapid implementation of the initial 
steps cited in the Policy Statement will result in eventual savings in 
Public, and private operating costs, by reducing the amount of clerical 
work involved in settlements, chiefly through reductions in check han-
dling due to reduced need for sorting, packaging and transportation of 
checks and other paper items. Elimination of bank and System float 
through these changes would result in further savings, and greater 
equ5. ty amon g b a nks . 
ti 
Where zones of immediate payment now exist, in cities with 
Federal Reserve offices, the Board anticipates that the geographic 
expansion suggested in Point 1 can be accomplished at an early time, 
it is envisaged that these zones would be as large as permitted by 
reliable physical arrangements for overnight presentation and settle-
ment of items. 
Studies leading to the establishment of new clearing centers, 
for settlement in immediately available funds on a regional basis, as 
,in 
, should be undertaken promptly, where not already under way. 
'fhe Board does not anticipate that this should involve extensive delays, 
nr*d it looks forward to the establishment in the near future of the 
°Ptimum justifiable number of new regional clearing arrangements. It 
ia generally expected that procedures governing participation in regional 
Scaring facilities will be conducted in such a way that where possible 
due precedence is given to member banks. 
Point 3 in the Policy Statement is aimed at taking fuller advan-
c e , in speeding money transfers, of the Federal Reserve System's exist-
i n8 wire network, and improvements in it that are coming into being. As 
3(c) indicates, this requires Reserve Bank offices to add to their present 
Capabilities where indicated by potentials for their use. Adjustments 
operating hours, and other practices, should be made with a view to 
encouraging maximum utilization of the capacity of the Reserve System's 
wire network, on an equitable basis, 
A press release and the policy statement will be issued to the' 
I^ess on VJ.dnesday afternoon, June 16, for use in morning papers of 
Thursday, June 17. The press release will be sent to each Reserve Bank 
ky wire early next week. Please guard against premature release. 
Very truly yours, 
( 
. 
,... 
y 
^ttachment 
Panics and branches) 
/ 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
,J:0 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND VICE PRESIDENTS IN 
CHARGE OF BRANCHES 
