FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
j 
Minutes for 
May 21, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

m 
1330 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, May 21, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
1/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Staff presented the usual weekly review of domestic and inter-
national economic and financial developments. Copies of the individual 
briefings and of the relevant statistical materials have been placed in 
the Board's files. 
During the review it was suggested that the staff consider the 
feasibility of obtaining from banks, through Reserve Bank channels, such 
lnformation as might be available on the extent to which U.S. corporations 
and other domestic entities had recently been engaging in the transfer of 
funds into German marks. 
•!./ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3 
5/21/71 
-3-
There followed a report on pertinent legislative developments, 
after which members of the staff who had attended for the purpose of the 
weekly review withdrew from the meeting. Mr. O'Connell of the Legal 
Division, Mr. Egertson and Miss Hart of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, Mr. Norwood of the Division of International Finance, and 
appropriate supporting staff entered the room for consideration of the 
agenda items referred to hereinafter. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously an application 
by First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Peoples Bank of Crescent City, Crescent City, Florida, and authorized 
the issuance of an order in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board also approved unanimously an application by First 
Florida Bancorporation to acquire shares of The State Bank of North 
Jacksonville, Jacksonville, Florida, a proposed new bank, and authorized 
the issuance of an order in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Missouri Banc-
shares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of The Arnold 
Savings Bank, Arnold, Missouri, and authorized the issuance of an order 
in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously the sending of a letter (copy 
attached as Item No. 4) to the law firm of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, 
Washington, D. C., modifying in certain technical respects the Board's 
letter of May 7, 1971, in which it was concluded that the restrictions 

1332 
5/21/71 
-3-
of Regulation T regarding the arranging of credit by brokers and dealers 
would not apply to the sale of land investment contracts where any credit 
extended by the seller is solely attributable to the purchase of real 
estate by means of a mortgage. 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company. Reconsideration had been 
requested of the Board's denial, by order dated November 5, 1970, of the 
application of Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, 
to merge The North Side Bank and Trust Company, Bristol, Connecticut. 
Staff recommended, by memorandum dated May 18, 1971, that the request 
for reconsideration be granted on condition that an adequate banking 
market survey be conducted. A survey that had been conducted by the 
trust company was not considered to provide a sufficient basis to sup-
port the contention that the Hartford and Bristol banking markets were 
not becoming more fully integrated. The proposed survey would be con-
ducted by the Federal Reserve. 
It was suggested at this meeting that, before more System time 
was invested, representatives of the applicant banks be invited to meet 
informally with interested membe rs of the Board for discussion of 
questions raised by the staff memorandum, such as the reasons why the 
Hartford bank had not conducted its survey along lines suggested by the 
Federal Reserve. 
It was agreed that such a meeting should be arranged. 
(Note: 
The meeting was subsequently arranged for Tuesday, June 15.) 

1333 
5/21/71 
-3-
S_^_742. The Office of Management and Budget had requested the 
views of the Board with respect to S. 742, a bill to create a rural 
community development bank, and on the Department of Agriculture's 
draft letter responding to Senator Sparkman's request for a report on 
the bill. An analysis of the bill had been submitted in a Research 
Division memorandum of May 14, 1971, along with a proposed reply to OMB. 
As to the proposed letter, there was general agreement that it 
should be shortened and recast in several respects, particularly to 
avoid critical references to the position of the Department of Agricul-
ture and to avoid the use of language seeming to indicate that the Board 
would necessarily endorse the proposed legislation if certain adjustments 
of the kind mentioned in the letter were made. With the understanding 
that the letter would be redrafted in these respects, its transmittal 
was approved unanimously subject to final review by the Vice Chairman. 
(Note: A copy of the letter, as transmitted, is attached as Item No. 5.) 
There was also a more broadly-based discussion of the fundamental 
position the Board should adopt in evaluating proposals to establish devel-
opment banks and similar organizations intended to benefit sectors of the 
economy, particularly by improving the availability of credit to those 
sectors. It was pointed out that the Board had already been asked for 
its views on some such bills and that further requests could be anticipated. 
Members of the Board suggested a number of issues common to such proposals 
that appeared to require evaluation on an overall basis in order to achieve 

6 
5/21/71 
-3-
a consistent policy position; at present, in the absence of such guide-
lines, there was a tendency toward appraisal of individual pieces of 
proposed legislation on an ad hoc basis. One approach suggested was 
that the staff might prepare a paper analyzing efforts of the Federal 
Government, through grants, aids, and loans, designed to deal with 
developmental problems and the relationship of development banks to 
such ongoing Government efforts. Against that background, the staff 
could attempt to identify the kinds of questions that the Federal 
Reserve might appropriately raise in reviewing specific legislative 
proposals. More fundamentally, there was the question of the extent 
to which the Federal Reserve, as a central bank, ought to be concerned 
with improving the flow of credit to various sectors of the economy. 
Another approach suggested was that the staff might describe existing 
proposals and identify the basic issues common to them; or, to put it 
another way, the fundamental objectives of such proposals and the prob-
lems presented in their accomplishment. 
It was understood that the staff, taking these suggestions into 
account, would prepare material for the Board's consideration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No 
5/21/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, 
1 
Tampa, Florida, 
» 
for approval of acquisition of 90 per cent 
1 
or more of the voting shares of Peoples Bank' 
of Crescent City, Crescent City, Florida. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
^842(a)(3) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Florida Bancorporation, 
Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 90 per cent or more 
o f the voting shares of Peoples Bank of Crescent City, Crescent City, 
Florida ("Peoples Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
^ k i n g for the State of Florida, and requested his views and 

-2-
1336 
recommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on April 8, 1971 (36 Federal Register 6773), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition the financial and 
managerial resources and prospects of the Applicant and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
8erved and finds that: 
Applicant presently controls 19 banks with aggregate 
deposits of approximately $366 million, representing 3.0 per cent 
o f all deposits of commercial banks in Florida. 
(All banking data 
are 
88 
of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company 
acquisitions approved by the Board through April 30, 1971.) Upon 
acquisition of Peoples Bank ($7 million deposits), Applicant would 
U r e a s e its share of Statewide deposits by only 0.1 percentage 
P°tnts, leaving unchanged its present ranking as the sixth largest 
inking organization in Florida. 

-3 
1337 
Peoples Bank is the only bank located in Crescent City. Its 
principal competitors are the two banks in Palatka, 25 miles north of 
Crescent City, and the three banks in Deland, 30 miles south of 
Crescent City. Four of these five competitors are subsidiaries of 
holding companies. On the basis of deposits, Peoples Bank ranks fifth 
among the six banking organizations in the market and controls only 
7.8 per cent of market deposits. 
It appears that there is no significant existing competition 
between Peoples Bank and any of Applicant's present subsidiary banks, 
of which the nearest to Peoples Bank is 50 miles south in Sanford. Nor 
would significant competition be likely to develop in the future, 
Principally because of the distances involved, the number of banks 
located in each of the intervening areas, and the prohibition against 
branch banking in Florida. The market area of Peoples Bank is largely 
ru*al and growing slowly, and there appears to be little likelihood 
lbat Applicant would establish a de novo office there. Thus, it 
aPpears that consummation of this proposal would not eliminate signify 
*cant existing competition nor foreclose potential competition, 
filiation with Applicant may enhance the ability of Peoples Bank to 
c°mpete with the larger banks in its area. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
th 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
ffect on competition in any relevant market. 
The financial condition, 

10 
-2-
management and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Peoples 
Bank are regarded as generally satisfactory. 
Applicant states that 
the specialized services of its subsidiaries would be made available 
to customers of Peoples Bank as the need arises. Thus, considerations 
concerning community convenience and needs are consistent with approval 
of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, Kay 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action: 
chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisai, and Bsinaaer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1339 
3 . 
Item No. 2 
-• 
" 
5/21/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, 
Tampa, Florida, 
for approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of The State Bank 
of North Jacksonville, Jacksonville, Florida, 
a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Ccmpauy Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Florida Bancorporation, 
Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
°f the voting shares of The State Bank of North Jacksonville, 
Jacksonville, Florida 
("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida State 
Commissioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation, 
fat,' 
Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

1340 
-2-
/ 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 8, 1971 (36 Federal Register 6774), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant controls 19 banks with aggregate deposits of 
^proximately $366 million, representing 3.0 per cent of the total 
commercial bank deposits in the State, and is the sixth largest 
inking organization in Florida. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 
l9?0, and reflect holding company acquisitions approved through 
April 30, 1971.) Since Bank is a proposed new bank, no existing 
competition would be eliminated nor would concentration be increased 
i n any relevant area. 
Bank will be located in a growing residential area (est. 
PoPulation: 85,000) north of downtown Jacksonville. 
Its proposed 

-2-
1341 
site is in a large shopping center and across the street from another 
shopping complex. Applicant presently controls two banks in Jackson-
ville which are 6 and 12 miles from Bank and across the river. 
Consummation of the proposal would not give Applicant a 
dominant position in the market which is defined as approximating 
Duval County. Three of the four largest bank holding companies in the 
State are headquartered in Jacksonville and control 15 of the 29 banks 
in the market. These three companies control 77.6 per cent of market 
deposits, while Applicant controls only 4.3 per cent. In addition 
to Applicant and these three companies, the relevant market is com-
prised of five bank holding companies and banking groups, and four 
independent banks. Therefore, it appears that the effect of the 
Proposal will be to enable Applicant to compete more effectively with 
the larger banking organizations in the relevant area. 
Nor does it appear that the opening of Bank by Applicant 
^ould have an undue adverse effect on any competing bank. The bank 
nearest to the proposed site of Bank is located 2.1 miles away and is 
a subsidiary of the largest bank holding company in the State. The 
n e x t closest bank is located 3.3 miles from the proposed site and is 
a subsidiary of the fourth largest bank holding company in the State. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
t^at consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
a£fect competition in any relevant area. The financial condition, 

-4-
134 
management, and prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are 
regarded as generally satisfactory. Bank has no operating financial 
history. It will open with satisfactory capital, and it will be 
able to draw on Applicant for its management. Its prospects are 
satisfactory. The banking factors are consistent with approval. 
Bank's location in a major shopping center which presently has no 
banking facilities should provide a convenience to residents of the 
area; and the wide range of services that Bank proposes to offer 
should meet the banking needs of the customers. Therefore, consider-
ations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served lend some weight in support of approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would be in the public interest, and the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
and provided further that (c) The State Bank of North Jacksonville 

shall be open for business not later than six months after the date 
of this Order. The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action: chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill 
(Signed) Kennoth iV Keryrso 
(Seal) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1344 
Item No. 3 
5/21/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C 0 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MISSOURI BANCSHARES, INC., 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
for approval of acquisition of 83 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Arnold Savings Bank, Arnold, 
Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a), an application by Missouri Bancshares, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 83 per cent or more 
°f the voting shares of The Arnold Savings Bank, Arnold, Missouri ("Bank"), 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Missouri Commissioner of 

17 
- 
3 -
Finance and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
replied that the acquisition would be a very progressive step for 
banking in Missouri, 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 10, 1971 (36 Federal Register 6923), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration, Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, Missouri's fifth largest registered bank holding 
company and banking organization, controls six banks located throughout 
the State with approximately $382 million in total deposits (approxi-
mately 3.7 per cent of total deposits in the State). Applicant's 
Acquisition of Bank ($12,6 million deposits) would increase its share 
o f total deposits in the State by .1 per cent* 
(Banking data 
a r e a s of June 30, 1970 and reflect holding company formations and 
Acquisitions approved through April 30, 1971.) Although no subsidiary 

1346 
- 3 -
of Applicant competes in Bank's primary service area, both Bank and 
one of Applicant !s subsidiaries, The First Security Bank, Kirkwood, 
Missouri, compete in the broad St. Louis banking market (the Missouri 
portion of the St. Louis SMSA), holding .3 per cent and .5 per cent 
of total deposits in that area, respectively. However, existing 
\ 
competition between Bank and First Security Bank is minimal and 
substantial potential competition is unlikely due to the 20-mile 
distance between the two and the location of five banks in the inter-
vening area. Furthermore, Kirkwood is a suburban community, and its 
commuting residents avoid the moct direct connecting route, 
heavily traveled 
by local traffic, in favor of the interstate highway 
which bypasses Bank. Based on the facts of record, it appears that no 
existing competition would be eliminated by consummation of the proposal, 
significant potential competition would not be foreclosed, and there 
would not be adverse effects on any competing bank. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, 
its subsidiary banks, and Bank are satisfactory, in the light of 
Applicant!s intention to improve the capital structure of Bank, Con-
siderations concerning convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served lend weight toward approval, in that Applicant intends to 
Provide operational service and advice to Bank. Although the banking 
needs of the area are being adequately served, Applicant intends to 
enable Bank to offer an additional competitive alternative for such 

- 3 -
1347 
services as trust services. It is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action: chairman Burns and Governors Robertson 
Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
1318 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
5/21/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P U N D E N C E 
May 25, 1971 
Manuel F. Cohen, Esq., 
Wilmer, Cutler, 6c Pickering, 
Farragut Building, 
900 17th Street, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 
20006 
Dear Mr. Cohen: 
This refers to that portion of your letter of April 9, 1971, 
as supplemented by your letter of May 10, 1971, asking for the con-
currence of the Board of Governors in your opinion that there is 
no extension of credit for purposes of Regulation T in the sale 
of real estate investment contracts secured by mortgages on the land 
under the facts set forth therein and summarized below. 
A portion of the investment contracts in -question is sold 
by brokers and dealers who are subject to the Board's Regulation T, 
"Credit by Brokers and Dealers". Section 220.7(a) of the regulation 
provides, in relevant part that 
(a) Arranging for loans by others. - A creditor 
may arrange for the extension or maintenance of 
credit to or for any customer of such creditor 
by any person upon the same terms and conditions 
as those upon which the creditor, under the pro-
visions of this part, may himself extend or maintain 
such credit to such customer, but only upon such 
terms and conditions, except that this limitation 
shall not apply with respect to the arranging by 
a creditor for a bank subject to Part 221 of this 
Chapter (Regulation U) to extend or maintain credit 
on margin securities or exempted securities. 
American Agronomics Corporation (Agronomics) 
Corporation with principal offices in Miami, Florida, 
citrus groves for sale to individual investors. 
is 
It 
a Florida 
develops 

Manuel F. Cohen, Esq. 
- 
2 
-
1349 
The citrus grove tracts are offered in units of five 
and ten acres at a price of $10,000 and $19,900, respectively. 
A purchaser may make an initial deposit of approximately 22 per cent, 
with the balance being secured by a real estate mortgage, payable 
over a period of up to ten years. A deed covering the specific 
acreage purchased is delivered to the purchaser. 
Ancillary to such sales of real estate and, in addition 
to the land, Agronomics also offers separate arrangements for 
maintaining groves for investors, and for marketing the fruit. 
Alternatively, the investor may perform these services for himself, 
or he may contract with one of about thirty independent companies 
which offer such services within a 50 mile radius of the location 
of his citrus grove. If the investor enters into a maintenance 
and/or marketing contract with Agronomics, no credit will be 
extended to him, but he will be billed periodically for the cost 
of the services as they are actually rendered. 
If a deferred payment purchaser defaults on the mortgage, 
Agronomics has the right to foreclose on it. In the event that 
the proceeds of foreclosure exceed the investor's obligations under 
the land sales contract, he receives the excess. Conversely, the 
investor may be personally liable for any deficiency. If the 
investor breaches the maintenance and/or marketing contract, Agronomics 
lias no right to foreclose on the mortgage, but it is left to its 
remedies for breach of contract. 
In view of the foregoing facts which make it clear that 
credit is extended by Agronomics solely in connection with the sale 
of real estate, the Board concurs in your opinion that brokers 
and dealers would not be violating § 220.7(a) of Regulation T if 
they participated in arranging for such credit. 
It should be understood, however, that the Board's 
conclusion is limited to the specific facts presented in your 
letter and that any deviation from such facts may compel a different 
conclusion. 
Very truly yours , 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G • V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1350 
Item No. 5 
5/21/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
May 26, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This letter is in response to your Legislative Referral 
Memorandum of April 23, requesting the Board's views on the Department 
of Agriculture's proposed report on S. 742, "to create a Rural Commu-
nity Development Bank." 
As the Board stated in commenting on a similar bill (S. 3607) 
last year, it is interested in efforts to accelerate rural development. 
The Board thus approves of the basic objectives that S. 742 seeks to pro-
mote. 
It also approves of the provisions of S. 742 that would permit the 
proposed Rural Community Development Bank to benefit from the accumulated 
expertise of local bankers in financing commercial and industrial projects 
in their communities. 
Coordination of the operations of the Bank with 
those of private lenders and of other Federal development and credit pro-
grams in the commercial and industrial sector would appear to be of great 
importance. 
In its present form, however, the Rural Community Development 
Bank proposed in S. 742 has several objectionable features that the Board 
called attention to earlier in its comments on bills introduced in the 
House and the Senate to establish a National Development Bank. 
First, 
S. 742 provides that loans, bonds, and other securities sold by the bank 
would be exempt from Federal as well as from State and local taxes. This 
would put the Treasury in the unfortunate position of competing with the 
tax exempt issues of an instrumentality it has capitalized. 
Second, the 
Bank is authorized to guarantee and market tax-exempt obligations of State 
and local governments. 
Providing buyers with tax-exempt obligations that 
are also Federally guaranteed seems unwarranted. 
It would be preferable 
if securities guaranteed by the Bank were subject to Federal income taxes. 

1351 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
Specific legislation to this effect was enacted last year for insured 
obligations of State and local governments sold by the Farmers Home Ad-
ministration. 
Third, as in the National Development Bank bills, the guar-
antee authorization in S. 742 would expose the Treasury to an open-ended 
risk. No quantitative limit is placed on the size of the program, nor is 
there a limit on the volume of funds that the Bank could raise by selling 
its securities in the capital markets. It would seem desirable to place 
a legislative ceiling on the aggregate volume of both the direct lending 
and loan guarantee activities of the Bank. 
On the positive side, the Board notes that S. 742 takes into 
account a number of the suggestions offered in its comments on the National 
Development Bank bills. For instance, S. 742 provides that the Bank consult 
with other Government agencies to insure that its activities supplement their 
operations and functions; it establishes a guaranty fund to supplement the 
capital subscribed by the Treasury; it provides for raising funds in the 
private market in competition with other economic sectors; it gives the 
proposed Bank discretionary power to determine lending rates and guarantee 
fees, and to ascertain that borrowers have an equity or income interest 
in their project adequate to ensure proper management. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
