MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 28, 1972 

-80 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, March 28, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Treadway, Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics 

2 
3/28/72 
-10-
Mr. Treadway presented a review of recent stock market and margin 
credit developments, his comments being based on a memorandum dated 
March 27, 1972, a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
The following staff members entered the meeting at this 
point: 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, and Messrs. Althausen, Barnes, 
and Ring, Assistant Directors, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Other appropriate supporting staff 
... 
< 
; (J t 
C ' • 1 
O •>. I*. '.I 
> . • • . r- 
,••••.. 
f 
t> 
. 
-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a letter 
to Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, Tennessee, granting consent to 
the issuance of capital notes. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland interposing no objection to the release, for bidding 
purposes, of the construction documents for a new coin vault and loading 
dock facility at the Pittsburgh Branch. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved an interpretation concerning 
the applicability of Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, to 
credit on shares of mutual funds having portfolios of exempted securities. 
A copy of the interpretation is attached as Item No. 3. 

809 
3/28/72 
-10-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Regulations D and J. On March 20, 1972, the Board authorized 
the publication for comment of proposed amendments to Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation J, Collection of Checks and 
Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks. The proposed amendments were 
released for comment on March 27. At today's meeting staff discussed 
several comments that had been made and noted that initial public 
reaction to the proposals had been generally favorable. 
Old National Bank of Washington. The Board unanimously approved 
a letter to Old National Bank of Washington, Spokane, Washington, 
granting its request for permission to continue to maintain reduced 
reserves. A copy of the letter is attached under Item No. 4, along 
with a copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco. 
American General Insurance—Texas Commerce. On February 22, 
1972, the Board considered a proposal by American General Insurance 
Company, Houston, Texas, a registered bank holding company, to terminate 
its status as a bank holding company by exchanging the voting shares 
it owned in its subsidiary, Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, 
Texas, for shares that would be nonvoting as long as they were owned 
by American General. At that time questions were raised regarding the 
divesture proposal, and the Board suggested alternatives that the staff 
was to convey to American General. On March 20, 1972, the Board considered 

-810 
3/28/72 
-4-
an alternative divestiture proposal by American General, and a majority 
of the Board indicated that they would support the proposal if an addi-
tional condition were added stating that American General would divest 
itself of its interest in Texas Commerce by January 1, 1981. 
With a memorandum dated March 24, 1972, Mr. O'Connell submitted 
a letter from American General outlining a proposal based on the consid-
erations expressed by the Board in its two previous discussions. The 
proposal contained the following stipulations: 
(1) that American 
General would exchange its voting stock of Texas Commerce for an equal 
number of shares of nonvoting stock, which would be nonvoting only while 
held by American General; (2) that at such time as American General 
disposed of its Texas Commerce shares, it would do so at a public offering 
underwritten by investment bankers with a registration statement cleared 
by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and, further, that American 
General would require as a condition of the sale that no purchaser could 
acquire, either directly or indirectly, more than two per cent of the 
then outstanding stock of Texas Commerce; (3) that American General would 
have no policy-making employee in common with Texas Commerce, and would 
abstain from exercising any influence or control over Texas Commerce; (4) 
that no policy-making employee of American General, or any person or 
combination of persons owning 25 per cent or more of the shares of American 
General, owned or controlled 25 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Texas Commerce; and (5) that American General would divest itself of its 

-811 
3/28/72 
"5-
interest in Texas Commerce by January 1, 1981. The Legal Division 
recommended approval of the proposal. 
Discussion developed majority support for the proposal. However, 
Governor Robertson stated that although he favored this proposal over 
the previous ones, he was still opposed because it would not insure 
that American General would not control Texas Commerce. Governor Brimmer 
indicated that he would favor approval of the proposal, but that he 
would issue a concurring statement that would indicate his concern that 
the decision should be restricted to the facts of this case and should 
1/ 
not have broad precedential value.-
The Board then approved the proposal, Governor Robertson dissenting, 
and it was understood that a letter reflecting that decision would be 
sent to American General Insurance Company. 
It was also understood that an 
order would be prepared for the Board's consideration reflecting the 
termination of American General's status as a bank holding company, and 
therefore dismissing as moot pending applications by American General 
for indirect acquisition of shares of several Texas banks. A copy of 
the letter subsequently sent to American General is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board then considered the applications of American General 
Insurance Company and Texas Commerce Bancshares to acquire shares of 
the following Texas banks: 
(1) the successor by merger to MacGregor Park 
ii'C tlC !i.C C 
J 
'Vy, :'„-<'' i ' "-l 
'.iCu i 
i'o > JrU V* (. O 
Is
1/ Governor Brimmer's views are contained in his concurring statement 
on the application of Texas Commerce to acquire Beaumont State Bank, 
Beaumont, Texas (see minutes of April 11, 1972). 

812 
3/28/72 
-10-
National Bank of Houston, Houston; (2) the successor by merger to 
The American National Bank of Beaumont, Beaumont; and (3) Beaumont 
State Bank, Beaumont. 
It was understood, however, that action taken 
with regard to these applications would be conditioned upon the above 
proposal being effected, and therefore American General would not be 
considered an applicant in these cases. 
In a memorandum dated February 7, 1972, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section recommended denial of the 
MacGregor Park National Bank application. 
The Board unanimously denied the application. 
In a memorandum dated February 16, 1972, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section recommended denial 
of the American National Bank application, and approval of the Beaumont 
State Bank application, conditioned upon an exchange of shares offer 
being made to all stockholders. 
The Board unanimously denied the American National Bank of Beaumont 
application, and unanimously approved the Beaumont State Bank application 
subject to the condition recommended by the staff. 
It was understood that documents implementing the decisions with 
respect to the above three applications would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration, and that Governors Mitchell and Brimmer would submit 
concurring statements regarding the decisions with respect to the Beaumont 
banks. 

813 
3/28/72 
-10-
Southwest Bancshares. 
In a memorandum dated January 18, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to Long Point National Bank of Houston. 
After discussion the Board unanimously approved the application, 
with the understanding that an order reflecting that decision would be 
prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Land development as a permissible activity. 
In connection with 
the next item on today's agenda, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
had requested that the Board consider whether land development was a 
permissible activity for bank holding companies under section 4(c)(8) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. With a memorandum dated March 23, 1972, 
the Banking Markets Section submitted a study which concluded that land 
development should not be a permissible activity, principally because 
unsound banking practices and foreclosure of credit to independent 
developers might result from bank holding company entry into the field. 
The Section believed that the adverse effects appeared to outweigh the 
possible public benefits, and therefore recommended that land development 
not be considered a permissible activity for bank holding companies. 
Discussion developed support for the staff recommendation, but 
differing views were expressed with respect to the procedure the Board 
should follow. While they generally concurred with the staff's position, 
Governors Mitchell and Sheehan believed that the Board should allow a 

-814 
3/28/72 
-8-
period for public comment on the activity prior to taking final action. 
However, a majority of the Board believed that there was no need to 
solicit public comment, in view of the severe objections to treating 
this as a permissible activity. 
The Board thereupon determined, Governors Mitchell and Sheehan 
dissenting, that land development was not a permissible activity for 
bank holding companies. 
UB Financial Corp. 
In memoranda dated March 1 and February 11, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of UB Financial Corp., 
Phoenix, Arizona, to retain shares of H.S. Pickrell Company, also of 
Phoenix, subject to the condition that Pickrell divest itself of all 
activities involving the purchase and sale of land and joint ventures 
in real estate. 
The Board unanimously approved the application, subject to the 
condition recommended by the staff, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
Real estate syndication. 
BankAmerica Corporation, San Francisco, 
California, had made application for permission to engage in real estate 
syndication, an activity which had not been ruled by the Board to be 
permissible for bank holding companies under section 4(c)(8) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act. 
In a memorandum dated March 21, 19 72, the 
Legal Division recommended against real estate syndication as a permissible 
activity for bank holding companies. 

-815 
3/28/72 
-9-
After a discussion during which various opinions were expressed 
and several Board members indicated a desire to study the subject fur-
ther, it was understood that the matter would be held over for further 
consideration. 
Grandfathered activities. 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company 
Act requires that the Board review within two years from the date of the 
1970 amendments to the Act those bank holding companies with grandfather 
rights whose subsidiary bank had in excess of $60 million of assets as 
of December 31, 1970. The purpose of this review was to determine 
whether the holding company should be required to divest itself of any 
of the nonbanking activities it had been engaged in, either directly 
or through subsidiaries, on (and continuously since) June 30, 1968. 
>,., I i (• I no 
>*;,],) r to « 
In a memorandum dated February 22, 1972, Mr. Leavitt recommended 
j "> „ • c 
f • 
i •'»'. .'' n\ ov • 
* v 
» i 
that the Board send to each of the bank holding companies that had a 
subsidiary with assets in excess of $60 million, and that had not filed 
an irrevocable declaration under section 4(c)(12) of the Act, a letter 
requesting that the holding company advise the Board of (1) any activity 
it claimed as a grandfathered activity, and (2) all reasons why it regarded 
the activity as grandfathered. 
It was further recommended that the Board 
authorize the staff to review the replies and determine which grandfathered 
activities need not be brought to the attention of the Board. 
In a supplemental memorandum dated March 15, 1972, Mr. Leavitt 
provided a list of the bank holding companies involved, together with 

816 
3/28/72 
-10-
initial guidelines that the staff would follow in dealing with the 
cases. 
The Board unanimously approved the staff recommendation, with 
the understanding that the guidelines would be treated as internal 
guidelines. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the bank holding 
companies is attached as Item No. 7. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance, including Mr. Kakalec, Controller. 
The Board considered a memorandum from Governor Sheehan dated 
March 22, 1972, presenting a PCR requesting authorization for expendi-
tures for additional furnishings and office partitions in new space 
in the Watergate Building in order to carry out an experiment in space 
utilization as well as to provide for additional staff. Governor Sheehan1s 
request to have the authorized amount of the expenditure increased from 
$250,000 to $275,000 was approved, and Governor Sheehan was authorized 
by the Board to decide who would move into the additional space. 
The meeting then continued with the following staff members 
present: Messrs. Holland, Melnicoff, Smith, O'Connell, F. Solomon, and 
Burke. 
The Office of the Executive Director, in a memorandum dated 
March 27, 1972, recommended the appointment of Mr. Charles A. L. Marinaccio 
to the position of Adviser in the Division of Supervision and Regulation 

-817 
3/28/72 
- 1 1 -
at an annual salary of $27,000. 
It was proposed that Mr. Marinaccio 
be assigned to head a small group concerned with problem banks. 
The 
Board approved this appointment and the recommended salary, with the 
effective date to be mutually agreed upon. 
(The appointment was 
subsequently made effective April 3, 1972.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

'f^LRE^. 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20051 
-818 
Item No. 1 
3/28/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
D D A R D 
March 28, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Commerce Union Bank 
Nashville, Tennessee 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to ?1Z,UUU,UUU 
in subordinated capital notes by Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, 
Tennessee, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta. Approval is granted with the understanding that the sale 
of these capital debentures will be consummated within six-months 
from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

-819 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
3/28/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
D r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 28, 1972 
Mr. Willis J. Winn, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Cleveland, Ohio 44101 
Dear Mr. Winn: 
The Board has considered the February 14, 1972 request 
from the Pittsburgh Branch and interposes no objection to the 
release of the construction documents for bidding purposes for the 
proposed new intermediate security coin vault and loading dock 
facility and the necessary repairs, alterations and site work 
connected with the project. 
It is noted that due to cost escalation in the Pittsburgh 
area, the projected cost estimate to April 1, 1972 from September 1, 
1971, results in a bid estimate of $2,672 million for the project. 
When the proposals have been reviewed and analyzed, it is requested 
that the bids, with the analysis, be submitted for Board approval^ 
prior to entering into an agreement to proceed with the construction 
phase of the project. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

820 
Item No. 3 
3/28/72 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND RANKING 
CHAPTER T.I - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF TI1E FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. T] 
PART 220 - CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
Credit on Mutual Fund Shares 
5 220 125 Ext end i n '^JlfL^-ilt aljl 1 n _P 
Fund_Shares Having Portfolio of 
E x e m p t 
. 
(a) The Board of Governors has been asked whether a broker 
cr dealer may extend, maintain, or arrange for credit in a specif. 1 
bond account subject to § 220.4(1) on collateral consisting of shares 
of registered open-end investment companies whose portfolios fire made 
up entirely or in part: of exempted securities. 
(b) The term "exempted securities" is defined in section 
3(a)(12) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. § 78c(a)(12)) 
and generally includes federal, atate, and municipal securities. 
Such 
securities are eligible as collateral for extensions of credit in 
§ 22.0.4(1) and are entitled to good faith loan value in an account 
carried pursuant to that section, under § 220.0(b). 
(c) Part 220 (Regulation T) provides that brokers and dealers 
may not extend, maintain, or arrange for credit to purchase any secu-
rities unless the collateral for such credit consists of exempted secu-
rities or securities that are registered on a national securities 
exchange or appear on the Board's 0TC Margin List. Shares in registered 
open-end investment companies are not "exempted" securities, irrespective 

of the composition of the portfolio of the company, nor are they 
registered on national securities exchanges, or included on the OTG 
Margin List. Accordingly, such shares do not have loan value for 
purposes of Part 220, nor may brokers or dealers extend credit against 
such shares to purchase or carry any securities under § 220.4(i) of 
such part. 
(d) The above-stated opinion is in conformity with the 
Board1o views expressed previously in its interpretations announced 
in 1952 Bulletin 1105 (12 CFR 220.109) and 1955 Bulletin 267 (12 CFR 
220.112) to the cffect that brokers or dealers are prohibited from 
arranging credit to purchase unlisted shares issued by open-end in-
vestment companies. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 73g). 
By Order of the Board of Governors, March 28, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
[SEAL] 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

.vooicpiV'--
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
-822 
Item No. 4 
3/28/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 28, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Old National Bank of Washington 
Spokane, Washington 
99201 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Board of Governors, 
acting under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, grants permission to the Old National Bank of Washington 
to continue to maintain the same reserves against deposits as 
are required to be maintained by member banks not in a reserve 
city. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such permission 
is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors if the character 
of business of the Seattle offices of your Bank should change. 
The Board of Governors has recently published for 
public comment a proposal for revision of regulations that would 
restructure the reserve requirements of all member banks. If 
such a revision should be adopted, then your bank would be subject 
to the revised schedule of requirements. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 28, 1972 
Mr. Ho B. Jamison 
Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jamison: 
recommending that the Old National Bank of Washington, Spokane, 
Washington, be permitted to maintain the same reserves against 
deposits as are required to be maintained by banks not located 
in a reserve city. 
After consideration of the information submitted, the 
Board of Governors concurs in the recommendation of your Bank and, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, grants permission to the Old National Bank of Washington, 
Spokane, Washington, to continue to maintain the same reserves 
against deposits as are required to be maintained by member banks 
outside of reserve cities. 
It is especially important in this 
case that the Reserve Bank remain cognizant of the character of 
business of the subject bank and that the Board be advised if this 
permission should in the future be revoked. 
Should the current 
proposal be adopted for revision of Regulation D to restructure the 
reserve requirements, then the bank would be subject to the revised 
schedule of requirements. 
Reference is made to your letter of March 2, 1972 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

-824 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/28/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
March 31, 1972 
Mr. Gus S. Wortham 
Chairman of the Board 
American General Insurance Company 
P. 0. Box 3247 
Houston, Texas 
77001 
Dear Mr. Wortham: 
The Board of Governors has considered the steps proposed 
in your letter of March 21, 1972, to be taken by American General 
Insurance Company, Houston, Texas ("American"), to terminate its 
status as a bank holding company, which arises out of its ownership 
of more than 32 per cent of the voting shares of Texas Commerce 
Bancshares, Houston, Texas ("Bancshares"), a registered bank holding 
In connection with its consideration, the Board has 
reviewed the circumstances surrounding the acquisition, in May 
1968 by American, of its interest in the lead bank of Bancshares 
which interest subsequently was exchanged for a proportionate number 
of shares of Bancshares upon its formation as a bank holding company 
in 1971. American has given assurances that its purchase of an 
interest in Bancshares was intended, and continues to be held, solely 
as an "investment" and that at no time has American exercised or 
endeavored to exercise control over the bank or Bancshares, and that 
no officer, director or major stockholder of either American or Banc-
shares (or any of its subsidiaries) serves in a similar capacity with 
the other organizations. 
Your letter of March 21, 1972, offered American's commit-
1. American General will exchange its voting shares 
of Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., for an equal number of 
shares of the new Class B stock, which shall be nonvoting 
while held by American General. 
company 
ment to the effect that: 

-825 
Mr. Gus S. Wortham 
-2 
2. Simultaneously, American General will make a written 
commitment to the Board that if, at some time in the future, 
American General wishes to dispose of such Class B shares, it 
will do so only at a public offering underwritten by invest-
ment bankers with a registration statement cleared by the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. American General will 
require, as a condition of that sale, that no purchaser, 
either directly or indirectly, may acquire at the sale 
shares aggregating more than two per cent of the then out-
standing common stock of Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc. 
3. American General will not have a director, officer, 
or policy-making employee in common with Texas Commerce Banc-
shares, Inc., or any of its subsidiaries; and will abstain 
from exercising any influence or control over Texas Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., or any of its subsidiaries. 
4. No director, officer, or policy-making employee 
of American General, or a person owing 25 per cent or more 
of the shares of American General, or any combination of such 
persons, owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 25 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Texas Commerce Bancshares, 
Inc. or any of its subsidiaries. 
5. American General will divest itself of whatever 
ownership interest it may have in Texas Commerce Bancshares, 
Inc. by Janaury 1, 1981. 
On the basis of the particular circumstances of American's 
relationship to Bancshares and on the strength of the aforementioned 
commitments which the Board accepts as proposed, the Board has 
determined that American's status as a bank holding company for the 
purposes of § 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended,!/ 
terminates upon the exchange of voting shares for nonvoting shares 
of Bancshares, and subject to the conditions set forth in numbered 
paragraphs 1-5 of your letter of March 21, 1972. 
The Board emphasized that its decision is in no way intended 
to limit its ability to amend, revoke or nullify this determination 
should the Board conclude that American is exercising control or a 
controlling influence over the voting shares, management or policies 
of Bancshares or any bank. 
1/ Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer and Sheehan voted to 
recognize American General's nonholding company status. Governor 
Robertson dissented. 

-826 
Mr. Gus S. Wortham 
-3-
On the basis of termination of American's status as a bank 
holding company, the Board proposes to dismiss as moot applications 
filed by American for the indirect acquisition of shares of each of six 
banks located in Texas. An order to this effect will be published in 
the Federal Register. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

82? 
Item No. 6 
3/28/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UB FINANCIAL CORP, 
Order Approving Retention of H. S. Pickrell Company 
UB Financial Corp., Phoenix, Arizona, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to retain all of the voting 
shares of H. S. Pickrell Company, Phoenix, Arizona. Said shares 
were purchased by Applicant in May 1970, and under the provisions 
of § 4(a)(2) of the Act may not be retained beyond December 31, 1980, 
without prior Board approval. Notice of the application affording 
opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views was 
duly published. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
none have been received. 
Applicant owns the United Bank of Arizona ("Bank"), 
Phoenix, the sixth largest bank in Arizona, Bank's total deposits 
of $130.6 million represent 3.4 per cent of all commercial bank 
deposits in the S t a t e . B a n k is engaged in the business of 
originating mortgage loans for its own account, consisting primarily 
of conventional residential mortgages and shorter-term commercial 
mortgages. In 1970, Bank originated $231 thousand in conventional 
3ingle family residential loans, and $3.7 million in commercial 
1/ Deposit data as of June 30, 1971. 

2-
real estate loans. Its mortgage servicing portfolio of $12.7 million 
represented the total volume of real estate loans serviced for its 
own account. Bank does not service loans for others. 
H. S. Pickrell Company is engaged in the business of 
originating and servicing mortgage loans through its head office 
in Phoenix and one branch located in Tucson, Arizona. In 1969, 
its last full year of operation as an independent mortgage company, 
it originated $10.5 million in residential mortgages (all FHA or 
VA loans). In 1970, this volume increased to $14.6 million. Its 
commercial loan originations have fluctuated between $8.1 million 
in 1968; $3.6 million in 1969; and $17 million in 1970. H. S. 
Pickrell Company's total mortgage originations in the Phoenix area 
in 1970 accounted for 3.2 per cent of all mortgages recorded in 
the Phoenix market, while those of Applicant accounted for less 
than 0.4 per cent. Based upon a mortgage servicing portfolio of 
2/ 
$125 million,"" H. S. Pickrell Company ranks as the 167th largest 
mortgage banking company in the country. 
The Board concludes that Applicant's proposed retention 
of H. S. Pickrell Company would have no adverse effects on com-
petition, as neither institution has more than a minor share of 
the mortgage banking business in any local market in Arizona, or 
in the State as a whole. Nor is there anything in the record to 
indicate that the proposed retention would lead to an undue 
2/ Servicing portfolio as of June 30, 1971. 

-3-
829 
concentration of resources, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking 
practices. To the contrary, it appears that the public would benefit 
from the strengthening of H. S. Pickrell Company through the continu-
ance of its enhanced ability to offer larger lines of credit to its 
customers, and to compete more effectively with the larger financial 
institutions in the State. These public benefits clearly outweigh 
any possible adverse effects on competition. 
In addition to engaging in the activity of mortgage banking, 
Applicant seeks permission to retain H. S. Pickrell Company for the 
purpose of: (1) engaging in the purchase and sale of land, and 
(2) acting as a joint venturer in real estate development. It appears 
that H. S. Pickrell is not currently engaged in any real estate joint 
ventures but in June 1971, it purchased 19 acres of land, which it 
subsequently subdivided and improved and has contracted to sell 
to an independent builder. Such land development activity was not 
then and is not now permissible for bank holding companies. The Board 
is of the opinion that the activities of purchasing and selling of land 
or participating as a joint venturer in real estate development are 
not so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, 
and that insofar as the application pertains to these activities, 
it should be denied. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the application is approved provided that H. S. Pickrell 
Company shall not engage in the activities of purchasing and selling 

land or participating in real estate joint ventures. This approval 
is subject further to the Board's authority to require reports by, 
and make examinations of, holding companies and their subsidiaries 
and to require such modification or termination of the activities 
of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds 
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, 
or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of G o v e r n o r s M a r c h 28, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
3/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Daane and Maisel. 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
3/28/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1972 
Dear Sir: 
A preliminary review of the registration statement filed 
by your company under the Bank Holding Company Act indicates that 
the company controlled a bank with assets in excess of $60 million 
on December 31, 1970, and might have been engaged, directly or 
indirectly, in a nonbanking activity on June 30, 1968. If so, 
the company may have "grandfather" rights with respect to such 
activity and, on that basis, may be authorized to continue to engage 
in that activity on the basis of the "grandfather" clause in sec-
tion 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
In accordance with the provision of that section, the 
Board may terminate the authority to engage in such activities if 
it determines that such action is necessary to prevent undue con-
centration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts 
of interest, or unsound banking practices. 
With respect to a company that controls a bank with assets 
over $60 million, the Board is required to determine, by December 31, 
1972, whether "grandfather" activities should be terminated. A deter-
mination not to terminate such authority does not preclude the Board 
from making a determination at a later date that the activities must 
be terminated. 
To assist it in making the required determination, the 
Board would appreciate receiving a letter from you, by May 1, 1972, 
responding to the following questions: 
(1) What activity or activities besides operating 
a bank was the holding company engaged in on June 30, 
1968, either directly or, indirectly, through a sub-
sidiary? 

-2-
832 
(2) Has the company been continuously engaged in 
such activity since June 30, 1968? 
(3) Does the company claim "grandfather" rights 
and, if so, as to which activities and on what basis? 
Any further information that you wish to submit to assist 
the Board in making its determination would be appreciated; additional 
requests for information may be necessary from time to time. Such 
requests will come from the Reserve Bank in whose district your bank 
is located. 
Very truly yours > 
Mi 
n 
Assistant _ 
„ 
Board 
