MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 12, 1970 

1798 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Friday, June 12, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Advis er, Divis ion 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Mr. Fry of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Altmann of the Division of International 
Finance 

J 
* 
6/12/70 
-2-
Subordinated notes. In a memorandum dated June 2, 1970, 
Governor Robertson had informed the Board of the position reached by 
the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation regarding 
a proposal published by the Board for comment in March 1970 to bring 
certain subordinated obligations of member banks within the definition 
of deposits for purposes of Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and 
Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits. 
The memorandum noted that the participating agencies suggested 
the following principal changes from the pending proposal: 
the category of subordinated notes that must be treated as 
deposits would be expanded to include those with an original 
maturity of less than seven years (rather than five years); 
each subordinated note not to be treated as a deposit must 
bear on its face, in bold-face type: "This obligation is 
not a deposit and is not insured by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation"; 
individual issues of subordinated notes, in order to be 
classed as nondeposit borrowings, must be approved by the 
Comptroller of the Currency for national banks and by the 
Board for State member banks; 
in exigent circumstances subordinated notes with a term of 
less than seven years could be issued, by national banks 
with the approval of the Comptroller and by State member 
banks with the approval of the Board, although such notes 
must meet other requirements of the basic rule. 
It was understood that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and, 
probably, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board would incorporate into their 
regulations relating to nonmember insured banks and savings and loan 
associations, respectively, the substance of the "promissory note" 
' iv 

1 8 0 0 
6/12/70 
-3-
section of Regulation Q, including the changes regarding subordinated 
notes. 
At the Board meeting on June 11, during preliminary discussion 
of the modifications proposed by the Committee, Chairman Burns had 
suggested that a minimum denomination of $1,000, or at least $500, be 
specified for subordinated notes that were not to be classified as 
deposits. At today's meeting Governor Robertson expressed the view 
that the Committee would accept that suggestion. 
Governor Brimmer inquired about the reasons for a minimum 
amount requirement, and Chairman Burns said he believed it would afford 
some protection to small investors. The distinction between a deben-
ture and a deposit might not be immediately apparent to the man in the 
street, and a minimum amount requirement, even if small, could prompt 
more careful study. A $20,000 limitation such as originally proposed 
by the Board might discriminate against small banks, as had been con-
tended, but that should not be true of a limitation of $500 or $1,000. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the seven-year minimum 
maturity requirement needlessly complicated the proposal. The danger 
that subordinated notes might be used as a substitute for deposits 
could be controlled by requiring approval by supervisory authorities. 
By looking at the terms of the offering and the capital position of the 
bank concerned, the supervisor should be able to determine whether or 
not the issue was truly for capital purposes. 

1 8 0 1 
6/12/70 
-4-
In response to a question, Governor Robertson said the 
Coordinating Committee regarded the seven-year limitation as important, 
both to establish a reasonable line of demarcation and to obviate the 
possibility of different rulings by different supervisors. 
Governor Mitchell stated that nevertheless he regarded the 
limitation as undue interference with the prerogative of banks to choose 
among financing options, and inconsistent with the image he believed the 
Board should have. 
Chairman Burns commented that he too disliked overregulation. 
The question, however, was whether it would be better to have a standard 
regulation, with an element of discretion to cover exigent cases, or to 
have bank supervisors rule on each case, perhaps with divergent results. 
Governor Daane expressed agreement with Governor Mitchell's 
basic approach. Despite his misgivings, however, he would go along 
with the present proposal, which was the result of extended interagency 
negotiations. 
Governor Maisel said that he too would accept the proposal, in 
furtherance of cooperation with the other agencies, although he regretted 
that the maturity requirement had been moved up from a five-year minimum, 
which itself represented a compromise. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he would support the proposal now 
put forth, including the seven-year minimum maturity. 

1802 
6/12/70 
-5-
Governor Sherrill remarked that he agreed basically with the 
position Governor Mitchell had outlined. However, he would go along 
with the proposal because the other supervisory agencies apparently 
thought it was necessary. 
Chairman Burns also spoke in favor of the proposal, repeating 
that it might be difficult for the supervisory agencies to arrive at 
judgments that were always equitable in individual cases. 
The remainder of the discussion dealt principally with procedural 
questions. It was understood that the Board's announcement would be 
coordinated with an announcement of proposed rule making by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, although the Board's announcement would 
of course reflect a final action. 
The proposed amendments to Regulations D and Q were then 
approved unaninously, assuming successful negotiation with the other 
agencies represented on the Coordinating Committee concerning the 
inclusion of a $500 minimum amount requirement. 
(Note: As Governor Robertson subsequently advised the Board, 
negotiation on the $500 minimum amount requirement was completed suc-
cessfully. The amendments to Regulations D and Q were then announced, 
effective June 30, 1970.) 
Pooling of funds. Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting 
on April 29, 1970, Governor Robertson had submitted to the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation a question regarding a proposal 

1803 
6/12/70 
-6-
whereby the New Mexico Livestock Board would consolidate various 
deposits with a number of New Mexico banks into one deposit with First 
National Bank in Albuquerque, New Mexico, in an amount in excess of 
$100,000, for a term in excess of one year. First National Bank would 
pay 7-1/2 per cent interest and offer participations to the banks in 
which the Livestock Board at present had deposited funds in amounts less 
than $100,000 so that they would be able to continue to have the use of 
the funds but would be able to pay 7-1/2 per cent rather than 5-1/2 per 
cent for them. 
In a memorandum dated June 9, Governor Robertson indicated that 
the Committee believed that the Board should respond negatively to the 
proposal. Attached was a draft letter to First National Bank in 
Albuquerque that would express the view that pooling of funds principally 
for the purpose of obtaining a higher rate of interest is contrary to 
the spirit of the rate structure established by Regulation Q, Interest 
on Deposits. 
Governor Robertson suggested taking even a firmer position on 
questions relating to pooling of deposits. He believed that the view 
that such arrangements were "contrary to the spirit" of rate control 
should be incorporated into Regulation Q so that failure by a bank to 
comply would constitute a violation of the regulation. A draft of 
amendment was attached to his memorandum. 

1804 
6/12/70 
-7-
Discussion reflected a preference that consideration of the 
amendment to the regulation should be deferred. 
The letter to First National Bank in Albuquerque was approved 
unanimously. A copy is attached as I tern No. 1. 
Advertising of retail price of premiums. Unanimous approval 
was given to the sending of a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks, as 
recommended by Governor Robertson in a memorandum dated June 9, 1970, 
indicating that advertisements by member banks including the retail 
price of premiums offered for deposits would be in violation of Regula-
i .! i" 
„v. 
• 
i- 
• -i 
'J 
>i 
• 
, • 
f 
• 
t i 
':.. 
• < 
> i 
i 
J 
tion Q, Interest on Deposits. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
Commercial paper. On October 29, 1969, the Board announced its 
determination that obligations issued by subsidiaries of member banks 
• , 
t :'<••"• \ f'. u \'t t ~ 
• ' •'< . ' -<' 
are subject to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits. Then, and again on January 20, 1970, the Board 
published for comment proposals to apply interest rate ceilings, reserve 
requirements, or both, to funds obtained by banks through issuance of 
commercial paper by affiliates. On February 24, 1970, the Board deferred 
action on the proposals and extended indefinitely the suspension of 
interest rate ceilings and reserve requirements with respect to com-
mercial paper issued by member bank subsidiaries. The staff was requested 
to develop further material, with the expectation that decisions would 
be reached in the relatively near future. Documentation subsequently 

1805 
6/12/70 
-8-
submitted included the following memoranda, copies of which have been 
placed in the Board's files: 
Memorandum dated April 20, 1970, from the Division of Research 
and Statistics regarding the application of Regulation D to 
bank-related commercial paper; 
Memorandum dated May 13, 1970, from the Division of Research 
and Statistics regarding the question of boundaries between 
banks and their affiliates; 
Memorandum dated June 9, 1970, from Messrs. Solomon (Adviser) 
and Gemmill regarding reserve requirements on commercial 
paper; 
Memorandum dated June 9, 1970, from the Legal Division 
regarding commercial paper issued by bank subsidiaries; 
Memorandum dated June 11, 1970, from the Division of Research 
and Statistics regarding consideration of a change in reserve 
requirements; and 
Memorandum dated June 12, 1970, from the Office of the 
Secretary outlining questions for possible Board decision 
relating to bank-related commercial paper. 
Today's discussion was prefaced by staff comments on the economic 
and financial environment, and members of the Board were furnished a 
table showing for the remainder of 1970 and the first half of 1971 a 
projection of gross national product and related items. A copy of the 
table has been placed in the Board's files. It was pointed out, among 
other things, that commercial paper issued by bank holding companies or 
affiliates had increased substantially since February 24. 
Chairman Burns then suggested that attention be focused on a 
possible range of actions. A set of proposals was distributed, and 
the ensuing discussion dealt primarily with the first three, as follows: 

18JJ6 
6/12/70 
-9-
1. Adopt the pending proposal to apply reserve 
requirements to commercial paper issued by parent and 
collateral affiliates of a member bank to the extent 
funds obtained thereby are channeled to the bank, but 
utilizing the same reserve requirement percentages that 
are applied to regular bank time deposits; 
2. Accompany the foregoing action with a public 
statement encouraging banks to conform with the spirit 
of this regulatory posture; 
3. Lower reserve requirements on member bank time 
deposits over $5 million from 6 per cent to 4-1/2 per cent. 
In response to a question whether actions taken would, overall, 
be assumed to have a neutral monetary policy effect, Chairman Burns 
expressed the view that some liberalization would be in order. The 
degree of liberalization was for the Board to determine. In response 
to a comment that the third action on the list would release approxi-
mately $600 million in reserves, Chairman Burns observed that the effect 
could be bent one way or another. In his view, a gentle easing would 
be desirable. In any event, he would want to avoid any announcement 
that could be interpreted as a restrictive move. 
Chairman Burns also expressed the view that there had already 
been undue delay, which had caused uncertainty and inconvenience to 
affected parties and reflected poorly on the ability of the Federal 
Reserve to reach a decision. He doubted whether further delay would 
improve the decision-making process. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the primary issue the Board 
should resolve was that of the ceiling rate on large certificates of 

1807 
6/12/70 
-10-
deposit. There was danger of a liquidity crisis, and banks would have 
to be provided with means to meet it. As a minimum, the banking system 
should be given the maneuverability to deal with such a crisis by sus-
pending the rate ceilings on CD's of $100,000 and over, possibly for 
90-day maturities. Once the immediate need had been met, the problem 
of commercial paper could be dealt with more intelligently. 
When the proper time came, Governor Mitchell said, he would 
i 
support a 10 per cent reserve requirement against commercial paper, as 
defined in the first proposal. He would also ease reserve requirements 
slightly. In essence, he would want to treat commercial paper as an 
ft«; - • ' 
v. ,J. • : 
... . :... 'J ' 
>• i ; 
alternative to Euro-dollars and CD's. 
Governor Daane said it seemed to him that against the background 
of the current economic and financial climate, gentle easing was the 
appropriate course. However, he had doubts about acting on the current 
set of proposals at this time. No matter how such an action was 
announced, it would be subject to misinterpretation in view of the 
uncertainty and confusion prevailing in the markets. It could be 
regarded either as restrictive or as a first plunge into a posture of 
monetary ease that would maintain no real brake on the inflationary 
process. He would not oppose the present proposal if it were the only 
alternative available, nor would he record a negative vote if the other 
members of the Board agreed on changes in reserve requirements designed 
to accomplish modest easing, but he believed that open market operations 

1808 
6/12/70 
-11-
were the best instrument to use in the present circumstances, particu-
larly since they could be conducted flexibly. He had some sympathy 
for Governor Mitchell's suggestion that ceilings be suspended for 
large CD's, but such a move also could be misinterpreted. In terms 
of structure, he was in agreement with Governor Mitchell, but in terms 
of timing he was not. He would like to suspend the rate ceilings on 
large CD's, but he was inclined to feel that such action should be 
deferred at least until after the next meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee. 
In response to Chairman Burns' request for views on the specific 
question whether action on large CD's should be considered before a 
decision was reached with respect to commercial paper, all members 
except Governor Mitchell expressed themselves in the negative. 
Governor Maisel commented that while he favored some easing, 
he did not want the announcement effect that he believed action on 
interest rate ceilings would have. Also, he feared that under present 
circumstances suspension of interest rate ceilings might result in loss 
of control over the liquidity problem, and he believed that the latter 
should preferably be dealt with through the open market vehicle. Although 
in theory interest rate ceilings could be reinstated later, it would be 
difficult to do so because of the problem of finding a situation in 
which reimposition would not cause a rapid runoff. 

180.9 
6/12/70 
-12-
The discussion then reverted to the possible set of actions 
that had been suggested. Chairman Burns commented that the first two 
must be read together. In preliminary discussions the staff had pointed 
out to him a variety of loopholes. It was historically typical of 
attempts at regulation that as loopholes were discovered, additional 
regulations were adopted to close them. Rather than to attempt to 
close every loophole, a statement could be issued to make clear what 
the Board was seeking to achieve. In his view, if the banking community 
knew the objective, the great majority would abide by the spirit of the 
regulation. 
Mr. Partee observed that there might be difficulty in applying 
reserve requirements, as the first proposal contemplated, only to funds 
channeled to the bank; disposition of the funds could be unclear. If 
an appeal to abide by the spirit of the requirement would deter banks 
from exploiting the possibility of circuitous channeling, that would 
enhance the effectiveness of the regulation. 
Governor Mitchell expressed doubt that an appeal would be 
effective. Some of those who had been taking advantage of loopholes 
felt bitter about the Board's position on Regulation Q, and he did not 
believe that any amount of language would persuade them that they were 
being fairly treated. 
Chairman Burns observed that action on commercial paper would 
not preclude action on Regulation Q ceilings; although the majority of 

1810 
6/12/70 
-13-
the Board did not want to take the latter action at the present time, 
he had understood that there was a substantial sentiment for taking it 
at some future time. 
A canvass of views on the question whether items 1 and 2 on the 
list of proposals should be adopted today disclosed that whereas Chair-
man Burns and Governor Robertson were in favor of such a move, the other 
members of the Board were opposed, primarily for reasons of timing. 
Governor Brimmer expressed strong reservations with regard to 
any overt policy move at this time. If the time to act came within 
the next month, he believed the best instrument would be the open 
market mechanism. The proposed action on commercial paper envisaged an 
accompanying net reduction in the degree of monetary restraint, and he 
would not favor that in the near future. Also, he was not convinced 
that the statement of appeal to abide by the spirit of the regulation 
would be effective. 
Governor Sherrill was not in favor of the proposed action 
because of the present tensions in the markets. He could look at the 
action as an attempt to clean up a situation that had been held open 
too long and needed a solution, as a move intended to have some monetary 
effect, or as one having some expectational effect. Although he thought 
that a monetary move was necessary, he agreed with those who felt that 
action through the Desk was the best way to accomplish it. He did not 
want any expectational effects because of the present confusion in the 

1811 
6/12/70 
-14-
market, and the degree of market sensitivity overrode the need to clean 
up a problem situation. When the time did come to make the move, he 
would be in favor of paralleling commercial paper with CD's. He believed 
that it would be necessary to give Euro-dollar deposits special treat-
ment; they should be retained in a separate category in order not to 
affect the entire deposit structure. 
Governor Brimmer associated himself with Governor Sherrill's 
advocacy of meshing commercial paper and CD's. 
Governor Robertson favored acting today, because he thought the 
situation called for leadership in influencing expectations. In his 
view, reserve requirements should be applied to commercial paper on the 
same basis as they were applied to other bank deposits rather than in a 
way comparable to Euro-dollars. With respect to the latter there was a 
special device designed to prevent large outflows, and he thought it 
should stand by itself for the time being. He would also subject 
deposits arising from commercial paper to interest rate ceilings, 
although he was aware that other members of the Board did not join him 
in that. He had some doubt about releasing $600 million of reserves 
by decreasing reserve requirements on time deposits over $5 million 
from 6 per cent to 4.5 per cent, but he would agree to 5 per cent. 
Chairman Burns then inquired how the members of the Board 
would feel about proposals 1, 2, and 3 as a package, with 3 contemplating an 
unspecified reduction in reserve requirements, as a move the Board would 

1812 
6/12/70 
-15-
take sometime before July 2. Responses were mixed, in general reflecting 
the views previously expressed with respect to timing, choice of instru-
ments, and avoidance of an appearance of restrictive action. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, Chairman Burns expressed 
the view that the Board should not live indefinitely with the long-
unresolved regulatory problem and that further consideration therefore 
should be given to the matter until action was taken in one direction 
or another. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1 1 8 1 3 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6/12/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
•f^Litsf: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 15, 1970 
Mr. Cale W. Carson, Jr., President 
First Nat ional Bank in Albuquerque 
Post Office Box 1305 
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87103 
Dear Mr. Carson: 
Your letter of March 19, 1970, to Mr. J, R. Thomas, 
Regional Administrator of National Banks, has been forwarded by 
Chief National Bank Examiner Ellis to the Board of Governors for 
reply. 
It is understood that the New Mexico Livestock Board 
proposes to consolidate various deposits with a number of New 
Mexico banks into one deposit with your bank. The consolidated 
deposit will be in an amount in excess of $100,000 and have a 
maturity of more than one year. Your bank will pay interest on 
such deposit at the rate of 7-1/2 per cent per annum. In order 
that banks from which the Livestock Board withdraws funds to add 
to the deposit in your bank might continue to have the use of a 
like amount of funds, your bank proposes to offer to sell them 
participations in the deposit with your bank corresponding to the 
amount withdrawn from them by the Board. 
The Board of Governors has expressed the view that 
pooling of funds principally for the purpose of obtaining a 
higher rate of interest is contrary to the spirit of the rate 
structure established by Regulation Q. That view does not apply 
to prevent one person from consolidating his assets into a 
$100,000 deposit. However, where, as with your proposal, the 
expectation is that the use of the funds will remain available to 
the various banks involved just as before the consolidation, the 
Board considers that the consolidation is in form only and payment 
by a member bank of interest on the deposit at a higher rate than 
is permitted on a deposit of less than $100,000 would be inconsis-
tent with the spirit of rate control. 

1S11 
Mr. Cale W. Carson, Jr. 
-2-
We regret the delay that has occurred in responding to 
your inquiry. The importance of assuring that all agencies involved 
in controlling rates of interest on deposits in federally insured 
depositary institutions adopt the same approach to matters affecting 
the administration of rate control suggested that your inquiry should 
be considered by the Interagency Coordinating Committee - the Chairman 
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Chairman of the 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the Comptroller of the Currency, and 
the Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors. The Committee considered 
the matter at its meeting on May 27. The representatives of the other 
agencies unanimously support the views expressed in this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
..(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

-ill.i .'<;••: • • ,v i uj 
m 
f f ^ W 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• R T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
6/12/70 
S-2140 
1815 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S P D N O E H C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 15, 1970 
Dear Sir: 
The question has been raised whether a member bank may 
advertise a retail price of merchandise offered as a premium for 
a deposit. 
The Board considers that such advertising might mislead 
depositors in comparing premiums offered by competing institutions. 
Retail prices are generally uncontrolled and vary considerably. 
Permitting advertising of retail prices might result in some 
institutions advertising the highest price at which the merchandise 
has been sold to consumers, and the depositor might believe that he 
will receive a premium of greater value for his deposit than will 
actually be the case. 
Accordingly, the Board would regard an advertisement by 
a member bank that includes the retail price of premiums offered 
for deposits as a violation of § 217.6(f) of Regulation Q, which 
Provides that "Mo member bank shall make any advertisement, 
announcement, 01: solicitation relating to the interest paid on 
eposits that is inaccurate or misleading or that misrepresents 
lts deposit contracts." 
A similar letter is being sent by the Comptroller of 
he Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the 
'ederal Home Loan Bank Board to their regional offices. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
