MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 29, 1970 

3819 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 29, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Staff who had been present for the purpose of the economic and 
financial review withdrew at this point and several representatives of 
the Legal Division, the Division of Research and Statistics, and the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation joined the meeting. These included 
Messrs. O'Connell, General Counsel; Sanders and Noble, Assistant General 
Counsel; Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation; 
and Egertson and Lyon, Assistant Directors of that Division. 
17Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3620 
12/29/70 
-2-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City on December 23 and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
St. Louis, and Dallas on December 24, 1970, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. A draft of report to the Comptrol-
ler of the Currency had been distributed regarding the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities 
of The Port William Banking Company, Port William, Ohio, by The Clinton 
County National Bank and Trust Company of Wilmington, Wilmington, Ohio. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of The Port 
William Banking Company by The Clinton National Bank and 
Trust Company of Wilmington would eliminate some existing 
competition; the overall effect of the proposal on compe-
tition would be slightly adverse. 
The report was approved for transmittal to the Comptroller, 
Governor Robertson dissenting because he believed that the effect of the 
proposal should be characterized as "adverse." 
Barclays. After review of documentation that had been distributed, 
the Board unanimously approved the application of Barclays Bank Limited, 
London, England, for indirect acquisition (through its subsidiary, Barclays 
Bank D.C.O., also of London) of shares of Barclays Bank of New York, New York, 
New York, a proposed new bank; and the application of Barclays Bank D.C.O., 

3t>21 
12/29/70 
-3-
which at present owned more than 25 per cent of the shares of Barclays 
Bank of California, San Francisco, California, to become a registered 
bank holding company through acquisition of shares of the proposed new 
bank. The Board also authorized the issuance of order and a statement 
reflecting these decisions. Copies are attached under Item No. 1. 
Issuance of capital notes. The Board unanimously approved 
applications by the following banks for permission to issue capital 
notes. Copies of the letters sent to the applicants are attached as 
indicated. 
Item No. 
The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust 
2 
Company, Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania 
The Colonial Bank and Trust Company, 
3 
Waterbury, Connecticut 
H.R. 18306. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to the 
Office of Management and Budget indicating that the Board favored approval 
of H.R. 18306, an enrolled bill that would authorize United States parti-
cipation in increases in the resources of certain international financial 
institutions and provide for an annual audit of the Exchange Stabilization 
Fund by the General Accounting Office. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 4a 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3&2Z 
TOUTED STATES OF AMERICA 
I t e m No- 1 
12/29/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
BARCLAYS BANK LIMITED, 
1 
London, England, 
1 
for approval of indirect acquisition of 
1 
100 per cent of the voting shares (less 
1 
directors' qualifying shares) of Barclays 
1 
Bank of New York, New York, New York, a 
1 
proposed nexj bank. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1S56 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barclays Bank Limited, London, 
England, a registered bank holding company as a result of its control 
of banks in the United States, for the Board's prior approval of the 
indirect acquisition - through its subsidiary, Barclays Bank D.C.O., 
London, England - of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of Barclays Bank of New York, New York, New York, 
a proposed new bank. 

2 _ 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of 
Banking for the State of New York and requested his views and recom-
mendation. The Superintendent responded that he had no objection to 
approval of the application. 
Hotice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 13, 1970 (35 Federal Register 17451), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the application so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, and provided further 
that (c) Barclays Bank of New York shall be open for business not later 
thari six months after the date of this Order. The periods described in 
(b) and (c) hereof may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 29, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Maisel 
and Brimmer. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

3t>24 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARCLAYS BAMIC D.C.O., 
London, England, (which presently owns 
more than 25 per cent of the voting 
stock of one bank), 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 100 per cent (less directors1 quali-
fying shares) of the voting shares of 
Barclays Bank of New York, New York, New 
York, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME A 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barclays Bank D.C.O., London, 
England, (a subsidiary of Barclays Bank Limited, London, England, a 
registered bank holding company) which presently owns more than 25 per 
cent of the voting shares of Barclays Bank of California, San Francisco, 
California, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant 
would become a bank holding company through the acquisition of all 

3o<I5 
- 2 -
(less directors1 qualifying shares) of the voting shares of Barclays 
Bank of New York, New York, New York, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 
of Banking for the State of New York and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Superintendent responded that he had no objection 
to the proposal. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 13, 1970 (35 Federal Register 17451), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit 
comments and views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy 
of the application was forwarded to the United States Department of 
Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views 
has expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that this approval shall remain in effect only 
so long as Barclays Bank D.C.O. remains a subsidiary of Barclays 
Bank Limited, and provided that the application so approved shall 
not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
the date of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the 
date of this Order, and provided further that (c) Barclays Bank of 

- 3 -
New York shall be open for business not later than six months a f tee-
the date of this Order, The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof 
may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 29, 1970, 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Maisel 
and Brimmer, 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A, ICenyon 
Kenneth A, ICenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
BARCLAYS BANK LIMITED, LONDON, ENGLAND, FOR APPROVAL OF THE 
INDIRECT ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF BARCLAYS BANK OF NEW 
YORK, NEW YORK, NEW YORK; AND BY BARCLAYS BANK D0C.O., LONDON, 
ENGLAND, FOR APPROVAL OF ACTION TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Barclays Bank Limited, London, England ("Limited"), a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding. Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)), for prior approval of the indirect acquisition -
through its subsidiary, Barclays Bank D.C.O., London, England ("D.C.O.") -
of 100 per cent (less directors1 qualifying shares) of the voting shares 
°f Barclays Bank of New York, New York, New York ("BBNY"), a proposed 
new bank. As a result of the acquisition, D.C.O., which presently owns 
more than 25 per cent of the voting shares of Barclays Bank of California, 
San Francisco, California, would itself become a bank holding company, 
and D.C.O. has applied to the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of 
the Act, for prior approval of that action. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 

3t>ii8 
- 2 -
receipt of the applications to the Superintendent of Banking for the 
State of New York and requested his views and recommendations thereon. 
The Superintendent responded that he had no objection to approval of 
the applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Limited 
is a registered bank holding company because of its ownership of more 

3'6ZS 
- 3 -
than 25 per cent of the voting shares of two banks: D.C.O., whose 
three branches in New York City (deposits of $110 million) are primarily 
engaged in foreign banking activities; and Barclays Bank of California, 
a full service commercial bank with deposits of $114 million.^ Limited 
also holds, directly and through D.C.O., approximately 6.5 per cent of 
the voting shares of Bank of London and South America, Limited, London, 
England, which operates a branch in New York City and a representative 
office in Pittsburgh. 
The proposal involves a reorganization of D.C.O.'s United 
States operations, with BENY - a proposed new State-chartered commercial 
bank - assuming most of the domestic operations of one of D.C.O.'s New 
York City branches. Unlike the D.C.O. office which it will replace, 
BBNY will offer full banking services, and its deposits will be federally 
insured. Consummation of the proposed transaction would not eliminate 
present or potential competition, but would have a slight procompetitive 
effect in midtown Manhattan, where BBNY will compete with 18 offices 
of 10 other commercial banks. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or 
be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any area, and would not substantially 
lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in 
any section of the country. 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1970. 

3830 
- 4 -
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Limited and D.Co0, are in satisfactory financial condition, with 
competent management, and favorable prospects. BBNY has no financial 
history. It will open with satisfactory capital and favorable prospects. 
These factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Although 
the banking needs of the midtown Manhattan area are being adequately 
served, consummation of the proposal would substitute a full service 
bank for an office which is primarily engaged in foreign transactions 
at the present time. 
The convenience and needs factors are consistent with 
approval of the application. 
Section 3(d) of the Act, - The Board has interpreted § 3(d) 
to prohibit Board approval of (1) the formation of a plural-State holding 
company, or (2) an acquisition by a bank holding company of any 
additional bank outside the State in which the operations of the holding 
company's banking subsidiaries were principally conducted on the latter 
of (a) July 1, 1966, or (b) the date the company became a bank holding 
company. Pursuant to this provision, Limited, either directly or in-
directly through a subsidiary, may acquire additional banking sub-
sidiaries only in New York. 
After consideration of the purposes of 5 3(d), the Board 
concluded that a plural-State holding company (such as Limited) may 

3831 
- 5 -
reorganize itself by forming a subsidiary plural-State holding 
company (D.C.O.) whose expansion would be restricted in the same 
manner as that of the parent. Since the theory upon which D.C.O. 
would be authorized to acquire a bank in New York would be predicated 
upon its status as a subsidiary of Limited, the approval granted herein 
would continue in effect only for so long as D.C.O. retains that status. 
If it should cease to be a subsidiary of Limited, the authority of D.C.O. 
to own stock of BBNY would terminate. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
applications should be approved, 
December 29> 1970. 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R 5 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/29/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
December 29, 1970 
\ 
Board of Directors 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company 
Bala - Cynwyd, Pennsylvania 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to Section 217.1 (f)(3)(i) of Regulation 
Q and Section 204.1 (f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $25 million in subordinated notes by The First Pennsylvania 
Banking and Trust Company, Bala - Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, as pro-
posed in your letter of December 8, 1970, with attachment to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

l l i i 3 3 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
12/29/70 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 29, 1970 
Board of Directors 
The Colonial Bank and Trust Company 
Waterbury, Connecticut 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to Section 217.1 (f)(3)(i) of Regulation 
Q and Section 204.1 (f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $2 million in subordinated notes by The Colonial Bank and 
Trust Company, Waterbury, Connecticut, as proposed in your 
letter of December 17, 1970, addressed to the Board of 
Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3t>34 
otcov^'. 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
Item No. 4 
12/29/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 2 Q S 5 I 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
Cil'} 
December 29, 1970 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Executive Office of the President 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of December 28, 
1970, for views and recommendations of the Board of Governors 
with respect to enrolled bill H.R. 18306, "To authorize United 
States participation in increases in the resources of certain 
international financial institutions, to provide for an annual 
audit of the Exchange Stabilization Fund by the General Accounting 
Office, and for other purposes." 
The Board favors Presidential approval of the bill. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
