MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 13, 1972 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 13, 1972. 
The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

1516 
6/13/72 
-2-
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. 
The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to 
acquire shares of Barnett Bank of North Jacksonville, Jacksonville, 
Florida, a proposed new bank, and authorized the issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 1. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Testimony by Governor Mitchell. 
The Board expressed general 
agreement with the form and substance of draft testimony concerning 
State taxation of banks to be given by Governor Mitchell before the 
Subcommittee on Bank Supervision and Insurance of the House Banking 
and Currency Committee on June 19, 1972. 
It was understood that the 
statement would be presented in a final form satisfactory to Governor 
Mitchell. 
(A copy of the statement, as presented, has been placed in 
the Board's files.) 
Regulations D and J. 
On June 12, 1972, the Board discussed 
several revisions that had been suggested with respect to the proposed 
amendments to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation J, 
Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks, that 

1517 
6/13/72 
-2-
had been published for comment on March 28, 1972. 
During that dis-
cussion Governor Robertson suggested a modification of the Regulation D 
proposal that would apply maximum reserve requirements to net demand 
deposits in excess of $200 million, rather than $400 million as proposed 
by the staff. 
Several members of the Board indicated that they would 
like additional information concerning Governor Robertson's proposal 
before taking final action on the proposed amendments. 
The Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations responded to that request in a memo-
randum of June 12 describing the impact Governor Robertson's proposal 
would have on bank reserves. 
Other documentation considered at today's 
meeting was substantially the same as that before the Board during the 
discussion of the proposed amendments on June 12. 
Today's discussion centered initially on Regulation J and support 
was indicated for the suggestion that the Board agree in principle to 
the revised proposal in the form attached to a memorandum from the Legal 
Division dated June 8, and that final action be taken following the next 
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, which was scheduled for 
June 20, 1972. 
Attention then focused on the proposed amendment to Regulation D, 
and during a discussion of Governor Robertson's proposal, a majority 
expressed support for an upper limit of $400 million rather than the 
$200 million proposed by Governor Robertson. 
Support was also expressed 
for the suggestion that the Board agree in principle to the revised 
Regulation D proposal. 

1518 
6/13/72 
-2-
Ensuing discussion related to the proper time for effectuating 
the amendments to Regulations D and J. 
Several important considerations 
were discussed, including the need to avoid to as great an extent as 
possible disruption of monetary policy. 
The staff was requested to 
explore the question in the light of the discussion and to present its 
recommendation at the time the proposals were considered for final action. 
Therefore, it was understood that the Board would today agree 
in principle on the revised proposals to amend Regulations D and J. 
Additionally, with regard to Regulation D, the Board approved, Governor 
Robertson dissenting, an upper limit of $400 million. 
H. R. 14779. 
On June 12, 1972, the Board discussed a request 
from the Office of Management and Budget for the Board's views on a 
draft letter from the Department of the Treasury commenting on H. R. 14779, 
a bill that would expand Federal Trade Commission jurisdication over 
unfair and deceptive practices and would give the Commission additional 
enforcement tools, including legislative rule making authority. 
In a 
memorandum dated June 8, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
expressed the belief that the bill should be clarified to grant enforcement 
authority to the individual banking agencies, but that rule making authority 
should be in one agency. A draft letter in that form was attached. 
Although several views were expressed, the Board deferred action until 
Chairman Burns could participate in the discussion. 
During today's discussion general support developed for the 
staff recommendation. 
Support was also indicated for the view that a 

1519 
6/13/72 
-5-
single bank supervisory agency, rather than the Federal Trade Commis-
sion, should be given rule writing authority over Federally supervised 
financial institutions. 
After several changes in the draft had been agreed upon, the 
letter to the Office of Management and Budget was approved unanimously 
in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Insurance of public deposits. 
The Office of Management and 
Budget had requested the Board's views regarding a legislative proposal 
to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and the National Housing Act 
to provide 100 per cent deposit insurance coverage for public deposits 
in Federally insured banks and savings and loan associations. 
It was 
understood that the views of the Board were being requested for internal 
use to assist 0MB in assessing whether or not to discourage Chairman 
Martin of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board from testifying favorably on 
the proposal before the House Subcommittee on Bank Supervision and 
Insurance. 
On April 26, 1971, in testimony before the House Banking and 
Currency Committee, Chairman Burns had indicated the Board's opposition 
to a proposal similar to the one presently under consideration. 
In a 
memorandum dated June 9, 1972, Mr. Gardner recommended that the staff 
advise 0MB that the Board's position remained essentially the same as 
that reflected in Chairman Burns' testimony. 
Other related documents 

1520 
6/13/72 
-2-
included a memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics 
dated June 12, 1972, which briefly reviewed the economic implications 
of the proposal-
Discussion developed support for Board opposition to the 
proposal, and it was understood that a letter outlining the Board's 
reasons for opposing the proposal would be sent to the Office of 
Management and Budget. A copy of the letter subsequently sent is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
First National City Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated May 3, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of First National City Corporation, New York, New York, 
to acquire shares of Citibank, National Association, Castleton-on-Hudson, 
New York, the successor by merger to The National Exchange Bank of 
Cast leton-on-Hudson. 
Additionally, in a memorandum dated May 11, 1972, 
Mr. Leavitt recommended that in this case the Board not require a 
review of applicant's nonbanking activities prior to action on the 
application. 
During discussion reservations were expressed with respect to 
acting on the application prior to a review of applicant's nonbanking 
activities. 
However, it was noted that the review would be completed 
within three months, and a discussion of several other important consid-
erations developed majority support for the staff recommendation. 

1521 
6/13/72 
-7-
The Board thereupon approved the application, Governor Brimmer 
dissenting, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. 
It was understood that a review of applicant's nonbanking 
activities would be completed within three months. 
Copies of the order 
and of the dissenting statement of Governor Brimmer are attached under 
Item No. 4. 
Industrial National Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated May 22, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of Industrial National Corporation, Providence, Rhode 
Island, a bank holding company, to acquire shares of Continental Factors 
Corporation, Montreal, Canada, subject to the condition that Industrial 
National reduce its ownership in Viva Mills, Ltd., a Canadian knitting 
mill. 
Attached to the Division's memorandum was a memorandum from the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston recommending approval of the application 
subject to the condition that applicant divest its ownership in Viva 
Mills. 
During discussion three of the Board members supported the 
staff's position while the remaining three expressed general agreement 
with the recommendation of the Boston Bank. 
Therefore, it was understood 
that the matter would be deferred until a meeting of the full Board. 
Citizens Trust Company. 
In a memorandum dated June 7, 19 72, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 

9 
6/13/72 
-2-
application of Citizens Trust Company, Atlanta, Georgia, to (1) establish 
a branch; and (2) exceed the limitations of section 24A of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
A draft letter in that form was attached. 
The Board unanimously approved the letter to the Citizens Trust 
Company. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
Bank of Suffolk County. 
On May 18, 1972, the Board considered 
the application of Bank of Suffolk County, Stony Brook, New York, for 
approval to issue capital notes. At that time concern was expressed 
with respect to the applicant's high debt to equity ratio, and staff 
was requested to contact applicant through the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York regarding the Board's concern and the need for the sale of 
equity capital rather than debt capital. 
In a memorandum dated June 8, 1972, Mr. Solomon stated that 
applicant had indicated plans to sell common stock in an amount equal 
to that of the proposed capital note issue, and therefore he recommended 
approval of the application. 
A draft letter in that form was attached. 
The Board unanimously approved the letter to Bank of Suffolk 
County. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Same-day substitution. 
On April 28, 1972, the Board published 
f°r comment proposed amendments to Regulations G, T, and U, relating 
to credit for securities transactions, that would limit the use of the 

1523 
6/13/72 
-2-
same-day substitution privilege. 
In the light of comments received 
several changes were made in the proposal, and in a memorandum dated 
June 12, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation presented a 
revised draft of the amendments. 
Consideration of the proposal was deferred until later this 
week in order that results of a meeting scheduled to be held this 
afternoon between the staff and representatives of the securities 
industry could be taken into account in the Board's consideration of 
this proposal. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1524 
Item No. 1 
6/13/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A ct, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Barnett Bank of North Jacksonville, Jacksonville, Florida, 
a proposed new bank ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the third largest bank holding company in Florida, 
c°ntrols 32 banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $969 million, 
Representing 6.58 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company for-
mations and acquisitions approved by the Board through May 30, 1972,) 
Bank is a proposed new bank and its acquisition by Applicant would not 
increase the concentration of banking resources nor have any significant 
adverse effect on any competing bank in the relevant areas. 
There are 30 banks operating in the relevant market of Duval 
County, representing 13 banking organizations. 
Six of these are bank 
h°lding companies that control approximately 85 per cent of county deposits. 

1525 
- 2 -
Applicant, as the county's third largest bank holding company, controls 
approximately 21 per cent of market deposits. 
Applicant's nearest subsidiary banking office is located nine 
miles from Bank's proposed site. Less than 1 per cent of Applicant's 
loans and deposits are derived from Bank's proposed service area in the 
•northeastern section of Duval County. Applicant's acquisition of the 
Proposed new bank would not eliminate any existing competition, nor 
does it appear that it would substantially lessen future competition or 
impose a barrier to future entry. Competitive considerations are con-
sistent with approval of the application. 
The managerial resources and financial condition of Applicant 
and its subsidiary banks are generally satisfactory, and Applicant has 
entered into an extensive capital improvement program which will provide 
additional capital to subsidiary banks as the need arises. Bank, as a 
Proposed new bank, has no operating history, but its projected earnings 
growth under Applicant's control appear favorable. Banking factors 
a re consistent with approval of the application. 
There are no banking services available at the present time 
in the proposed bank's immediate service area. Bank would serve as a 
convenient source of banking for the residents of this expanding area, 
9nd, accordingly, considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
o f the communities to be served lend some weight toward approval of the 
application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
w°vild be in the public interest and that the application should be 
aPproved. 

- 3 -
1526 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
that date, and (c) Barnett Bank of North Jacksonville, Jacksonville, 
Florida, shall be opened for business not later than six months after 
the effective date of this Order. 
Each of the periods described in 
(b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 13, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
J;/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Daane. 

1S27 
B O A R D 
D P 
G O V E R N O R S 
oVc-o,:.-.. 
: 
or TUL: 
; 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/13/72 
' 
' 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
vjj I f 
/','S . 
• 
ADD 15 E£515 OrnCIAL CORPEliPdNOCMI 
- v - v
-
o
/
'
.
'
T
O 
T HE; BOARD 
June 13, 1972 
Mr. William V. Skidmore 
Assistant Director for Legislative 
Reference 
Executive Office of the President 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C, 
2.0!>03 
Dear Mr. Skidmore: 
' 
" ... 
The Board is pleased to respond to your request of June 5, 
1972, for its comments on the draft letter of June 2, 1972, from the 
General Counsel of the Treasury Department to Chairman Staggers of 
the House Committee on "Interstate and Foreign Commerce commenting on 
R, 14779. 
That bill would strengthen the power of. the Fe.de.ra3 Trade 
Commission to regulate unfair and deceptive acts or practices. 
Section 11 
of the bill exempts financial institutions from Commission authority where 
they are regulated by certain supervisory agencies "against acts or prac-
tices unfair or deceptive to consumers." 
The Treasury Department draft 
letter suggests clarification of this provision to grant legislative 
*"u].e writing authority (as we 11 as enforcement authority) individually 
to these agencies--the Comptroller of: the Currency (with respect to 
National banks and their agents), the Federal Reserve Board (with 
Respect to State banks which are members of the Federal Reserve System 
and their agents) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (with 
Respect to non-member banks and their agents). 
Although the Board believes it is desirable to divide ejiforce-
authority among the banking agencies (as was done in the Truth in 
bonding Act), it believes that the fragmentation of rule writing authority 
among the three Federal banking agencies contemplated by the Treasury 
Proposal is undesirable. 
Ideally, that authority, in the Board's view, 
should be placed in a single agency Co avoid the problems of possible 
c° nflic ting rules as to what may be "unfair or deceptive" acts or prac-
tices, particularly where the same classes of creditors are involved. 
Ft 
v°n where identical rules can be developed by the several agencies, tne 
Process of negotiating and insuring uniformity among several agencies is 
a c.ostly one in terms of administrative efficiency. 

BOARD or GDVERNDP'J DF THE rCDLRAL RECCfiVC GVlVlEM 
1528 
Mr. William V. Skidmore 
-2-
Xn selecting the appropriate rule writing agency, however, 
the Board believes that a single bank supervisory agency (as opposed 
to the Federal Trade Commission) should be given rule writing authority 
over Federally supervised financial institutions. 
While this would 
involve the division of rule writing authority between two agencies, 
the two rule writing agencies would be concerned with different classes 
of creditors, and, to a certain extent, different trade practices, 
through their long experience with the unique character of financial 
institutions, the Federal bank supervisory agencies have developed the 
requisite background and expertise to formulate rules sensitive to the 
complex roles of these institutions in the national economy. 
One consideration which motivates the Board to recommend that 
Congress provide a banking agency with the authority to write rules for 
F e d e r a l l y supervised financial institutions in dealing with consumers 
is the rapid change taking place in the payments system. 
Financial 
institutions are currently in the transitional stage between the use 
of checks for the settlement of accounts and an electronic payments 
Gystem. 
A number of innovations promise to become a part of the future 
System of electronic payments, including credit cards and point-of-sale 
terminals for on-line computer operation. 
There is no question that 
consumers will be the ultimate beneficiaries of the changes that are 
beginning to be made in the payments field, but in this critical transi-
tional phase where the final shape of the system is still unclear, 
Regulatory action must be carefully designated to reflect both the 
legitimate interests of consumers and the concurrent need that financial• 
institutions he allowed to proceed with their innovations and experiments 
leading toward the new payments system. 
The surest way for this objective to be served, we believe, 
3-e for Congress to give a single banking agency the authority to write 
Rules against unfair and deceptive consumer practices in the financial 
institution field. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1529 
lifiii m
: 
^IRE^V 
B O A R D 
D P G O V E R N O R S 
• 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
6/13/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL. CURFT.SI'ONDENCK 
TO THE UOARD 
June 15, 1972 
Mr. William V. Skidmore 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Subject: 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board's proposed 
statement on amendments to Title IV of 
the National Housing Act and to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act. 
Dear Mr. Skidmore: 
The Board of Governors opposes the enactment of legislation 
that would eliminate present ceilings on federal insurance of public 
deposits. 
Federal insurance of the entire amount of public deposits 
with insured banks or savings and loon associations might well have 
a significant adverse effect 011 the market for Treasury and munici-
pal obligations. 
Commercial banks are an important source of demand 
for such obligations. 
Banks are presently required to provide 
collateral security for the uninsured portion of public deposits. 
A 
sizable portion of Treasury and municipal obligations now held by 
commercial banks are pledged for these purposes. 
The institution of 
complete insurance coverage of public deposits would dispel the need 
for banks to post security for any part of those deposits and would 
remove an important incentive for banks to purchase Treasury and 
niunic i pa 1 ob 1 iga t ions. 
Phasing in of the proposed insurance coverage over a period 
of years might moderate the immediate unsettling effect that could 
otherwise be expected in the market for these securities, but the 
adverse impact on demand for such obligations and hence on the rates 
of interest that such obligations would need to pay in order to attra< 
investors' funds is likely to be no different in the long run than if 
such additional coverage were introduced.at once. 

1530 
Mr„ William V. Skidraore 
-2-
Tlie Board is aware that supporters of the proposed legis-
lation anticipate that public benefits may flow from a possible shift 
Of deposits to federally insured savings and loan associations pro-
viding additional funds for mortgage lending. 
In the Board's judgment, 
it is unlikely that any resulting benefits would be of such significance 
as to outweigh the possible adverse effects mentioned above. 
Moreover, 
diversion of volatile public deposits to savings and loan associations 
where they would be invested in less liquid form than at commercial 
banks would raise questions of public financial policy. 
The Board is also concerned that enactment of such legis-
lation might lead to demands for complete insurance of private 
deposits as well. 
Such a development would be unfortunate. 
The 
limitations upon federal insurance of deposits have provided an 
incentive to banks for good management, since the relative financial 
strength of banks affects their ability to attract larger deposits. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1531 
Item No. 4 
6/13/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National City Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
Qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The National Exchange 
Bank of Castleton-on-Hudson, Castleton-on-Hudson, New York ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as 
a means to acquire all of the shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
acquisition of the shares of the successor organization is treated herein 
a s the proposed acquisition of shares of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in New York in 
t 
1/ 
erins of domestic deposits, controls three subsidiary banks 
with 
aggregate deposits of approximately $13.8 billion, representing 14.7 
2/ 
P e r cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
p ^ O n April 19, 1972, the Board of Governors announced its approval of 
^Pplicant's plan to acquire a fourth bank, the successor by merger to 
^ate Bank of Honeoye Falls, Honeoye Falls, New York, with deposits of 
j M million. 
y* Unless otherwise noted, deposit data are as of December 31, 1971, 
arket data are as of June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company 
°rmations and acquisitions through April 7, 1972. 

1532 
- 2 -
c°nsummation of the proposal would not significantly increase Appli-
cant's share of deposits in the State. 
Bank, with deposits of $12.3 million, operates four offices 
^ Renssalaer County, which is part of the Albany banking market. Bank 
is the twelfth largest of fourteen banks in that market, controlling 1.1 
cent of deposits therein. Applicant's nearest existing subsidiary 
b*nk is 100 miles from Bank. No significant existing or potential 
competition would be foreclosed by consummation of this proposal. 
In addition, the Albany banking market is concentrated, with 
three of fourteen banks controlling over 56 per cent of deposits. Bank 
is presently affiliated with the largest bank in the market and Appli-
cant's acquisition of Bank should result in disaffiliation. Accordingly, 
Consummation of the proposal will likely have a procompetitive effect, 
since Bank, with Applicant's support, should compete more aggressively 
vith the larger institutions. 
Considerations related to the financial and managerial resources 
o f Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are satisfactory and consis-
tent with approval. Although there is no evidence that the banking needs 
o f the communities to be served are not being adequately met at present, 
applicant proposes to provide, through Bank, another competitive source of 
specialized banking services. Convenience and needs considerations are 
insistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 

1533 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
^ 
reasons summarized above. 
The approval herein neither provides 
authority to Applicant to continue in the nonbank activities nor to 
retain nonbank shares nor requires the Applicant to modify or terminate 
s*id activities or holdings. 
However, consummation of the proposal 
l^rein j.s subject to the continuing authority of the Board to require 
^ification or termination of such activities or holdings (within a 
Period no shorter than 2 years), if the Board determines that the continued 
c°nibination of banking and nonbanking interests is likely to have an 
aclVerse effect on the public interest. 
The transaction shall not be 
C°asumraated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
<3ate of this Order or (b) later than three, months after the effective date 
Of ., 
ct*is Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 7, 1972. 
or 
( sEAL] 
(Signed) liichael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greensoan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Sh ^ o t i n 8 
tllif5 action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Uitchell. 
a n d Bucher. 
Voting against this action: 
Governor Brimmer. 
Absent 
n°t voting: 
Governor Daane. 

1534 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
This application should not be approved until after the Board 
has determined whether the combination of Applicant's existing banking 
nonbanking businesses is consistent with the purposes of the Bank 
folding Company Act, as amended. 
On October 26, 1971, the Board issued for public comment a 
Proposed regulation that would require one-bank holding companies to 
divest their nonbanking activities within two years after the acquisi-
tion of an additional bank. At the same time, the Board put one-bank 
holding companies (including Applicant) on notice that the acquisition 
o f an additional bank would make them subject to the proposed regulation. 
0ri April 25, 1972, the Board announced that instead of adopting the pro-
Posed regulation it would proceed to determine on a case-by-case basis 
Aether the continued combination of banking and nonbanking interests 
V certain one-bank holding companies would have an adverse effect on 
public interest. 
Applicant is the largest banking organization in New York and 
second largest banking organization in the country. Shortly before 
Applicant became subject to regulation by the Board on January 1, 1971, 
** acquired several nonbanking businesses—including Advance Mortgage 
1/ 
Company and Cresap, McCormick and Paget (a management consulting firm), 
k°th leading competitors in their respective industries. 
The Board has recently determined that management consulting is not 
a Permissible activity for bank holding companies. 
(See 12 CFR 225.4(a)(5), 
a s amended June 6, 1972.) 

1535 
- 2 
-
The combination of one of the country s largest banks with 
S uch nonbanking companies could result in the undesirable consequences 
that the Bank Holding Company Act was enacted to prevent. 
By approving 
t he present application x^ithout first considering whether Applicant 
should be permitted to continue to engage in its nonbanking businesses, 
the Board is ignoring its stated position of April 25, 1972. 
I choose 
n°t to join in this circumvention of established Board policy. 
Accord-
ingly, I dissent from the Board's action in this matter. 
July 7, 1972 

X53G 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE. 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
6/13/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
AOORE-CS OFFICIAL CDHRCBPDNUENCE 
June 13, 1972 
Board of 
D i r e c t o r s 
C i t i z e n s Trust; Company 
A t l a n t a , Georgia 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch by Citizens Trust Company, 
A t l a n t a , Georgia, at 3610 Gordon Road, S.W., Atlanta, Georgia, 
provided the branch is established within 6 months from t.ic 
date of this letter. 
The Board also approves pursuant to the 
provisions of. Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act an invest-
ment in bank premises of not to exceed $90,000 to be used 
m 
connection with the establishment of this branch. 
In approving these applications, the Board understands 
that President Reynolds has assured the Reserve Bank that no 
further expansion plans will be formulated until improvement is 
noted in the bank's major problems and the bank's earnings have 
reached a satisfactory level. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

1537 
• 4 if 
• . - 
N. \ 
P/7: 
•• " A-
"ia, -V 
B O A R D 
n r 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
6/13/72 
ADDRESS orrtCIAL CHRREBPONOENCI 
TO THr HOARD 
June 14, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Bank of Suffolk County 
Stony Brook, New York 
11790 
Gen t: lemen: 
Pursuant to 
section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governor* 
of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to 
$1,000,000 in subordinated capital notes by Bank of Suffolk County, 
Stony Brook, New York, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York. 
This approval is given on the basis of 
President Zorn's letter of June 6, 1972, to Vice President Piderit 
of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which l e t t e r 
i n c l u d e s a 
commitment 
to i n c r e a s e c a p i t a l 
funds by $1,000,000 through 
the sale 
of new common stock on or about September 30, 1972. 
Approval is granted with the understanding that the sale 
cf these capital debentures will be consummated within six months 
from the date of this letter and on the condition that the capital 
notes cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity without 
the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. 
It is further understood 
that any advertising with respect to the obligations will, in addi-
tion to being in compliance with the provisions of section 217.6 of 
R e g u l a t i o n Q,' clearly distinguish the nature of the obligation from 
a deposit, including the setting forth in bold face type that the 
obligation is subordinated to the claims of depositors and not insured 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
I 
* 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
A ssi s t a nt Seer et a ry 
L k 
