MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 7, 1972 

28G 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, February 7, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 11:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of 
International Finance 2/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Holmes, Senior Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
iitC-,;rj'i;r;' 
S i 
,. 
o >;.' .K > 
>•.*•. 
, 
U 
, 
' 
•.-,•>. i>u 
The research staff presented the regular economic and financial 
review. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the 
individual briefings. 
4 .> I t. t 
".'! 
• ! , 
There followed comments by Mr. Cardon on pertinent legislative 
matters, after which Mr. Holmes and members of the staff who had been 
:•;<" 1 •,:•<•$, 
fori:, 
Toi'k,, 
c 
c,.^-:-'-11 '-lie 
- • 
• • 
JV Attended morning session only. 
2/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

z
m 
2/7/72 
-2-
present specifically for the weekly review withdrew and the following 
entered: 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Messrs. Solomon, Director, and Dahl, Assistant Director, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Supporting staff of the several Divisions 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on January 26, by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas on 
January 27, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco on February 3, 1972, of 
the rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Morgan Guaranty 
International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, interposing no 
objection to fulfilling quarterly reporting requirements on portfolio 
investments made by Morgan & Cie. S.A., Paris, France, by submitting 
standard broker's information sheets. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to First National City 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to the acquisition 
through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Citicorp Leasing International, Inc., 

288 
2/7/72 
-3-
New York, New York, of shares of Interamericana de Equipos de Oficina 
S.A., Mexico City, Mexico. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to First Wisconsin Bank-
shares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, approving the organization of 
a corporation pursuant to section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
be known as First Wisconsin International Bank, New York, New York, and 
transmitting a preliminary permit. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Irving Trust Company, 
New York, New York, granting permission to establish a branch in Frank-
furt, Germany. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Brown City Savings 
Bank, Brown City, Michigan, authorizing the issuance of capital notes. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to The Northern Trust 
Company, Chicago, Illinois, authorizing the issuance of capital notes. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order and statement reflect-
ing approval on January 12, 1972, of the application of Midlantic Banks 
Inc., Newark, New Jersey, to acquire shares of Madison National Bank, 
Madison, New Jersey. Copies of the documents are attached under 
jJLgm No„ 7. together with the dissenting statement of Governor Robertson. 

5 
2/7/72 
-8-
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting denial on 
January 21, 1972, of the application of Associated Bank Services, Inc., 
Green Bay, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of American National Bank of 
Green Bay, Green Bay, Wisconsin. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 8. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on January 20, 1972, of the application of Associated Bank Services, 
Inc., Green Bay, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Neenah West National 
Bank, Neenah, Wisconsin. Copies of the order and the dissenting state-
ment of Governor Robertson are attached under Item No. 9. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on January 13, 1972, of the application of Bank Securities Inc., 
Alamogordo, New Mexico, to acquire shares of First National Bank of 
Portales, Portales, New Mexico. Copies of the order and the dissenting 
statement of Governor Robertson are attached under Item No. 10. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting denial on 
January 25, 1972, of the application of First Tulsa Bancorporation, Inc., 
Tulsa, Oklahoma, to acquire shares of Hall Investment Company, Tulsa, 
Oklahoma. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 11. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First Banc 
Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to Clermont National Bank, Milford, Ohio, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 12. 

6 
2/7/72 
-8-
The Board approved unanimously the application of First National 
Bankshares of Florida, Inc., Pompano Beach, Florida, to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of shares of the following 
Florida banks: First National Bank of Pompano Beach, Pompano Beach; 
First National Bank of North Broward County, Lighthouse Point; First 
National Bank of Margate, Margate; and Beach First National Bank of 
Pompano Beach, Pompano Beach. The Board also authorized issuance of 
an order, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 13, reflecting that 
decision. 
The Board ratified unanimously a letter that had been sent to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York approving the appointment of 
Thomas 0. Waage as Senior Vice President and the payment of salary to 
him at the annual rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. A copy 
the letter is attached as Item No. 14. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Banque Nationale de Paris. In a memorandum dated January 21, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
the application of Banque Nationale de Paris, Paris, France, to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of 
French Bank of California, San Francisco, California, a proposed new 
hank. A draft order covering approval was attached to a memorandum 
from the Legal Division. 

z
s
± 
2/7/72 
-7-
In a concurrent application, Banque Nationale de Paris had 
requested permission to retain investments in the following corpora-
tions, all located in New York City: French American Banking Corporation; 
French American Capital Corporation; Locafrance-US Corporation; and 
Indumat Equipment Corporation. The Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion and the Legal Division, in memoranda dated January 13 and 26, 1972, 
respectively, concurred in the recommendation that Banque Nationale de 
Paris be allowed to retain investments in the first three corporations, 
but that it be required to divest its ownership in Indumat. A draft 
order reflecting that recommendation was attached to the Legal Division's 
memorandum. 
Following discussion, the Board unanimously approved the staff 
recommendations and authorized issuance of orders reflecting that decision. 
Copies of the orders are attached as Items 15 and 16. 
Supervision of bank holding companies. In a memorandum dated 
February 2, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed 
the supervisory problems created by the 1970 amendments to the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956. The Division favored the approach that 
Would confine supervision of holding company activities to whatever is 
necessary to help assure compliance with supervisory requirements and 
Protect the banks involved from the consequences of unsound practices 
°f parents or nonbanking affiliates. Attached to the memorandum were 
draft letters to the Reserve Bank Presidents and officers in charge of 

292 
2/7/72 
-8-
examinations outlining the objectives of bank holding company super-
vision and providing general guidelines regarding frequency and scope 
°f inspections and charges for examinations. 
During discussion members of the Board suggested that the 
subject of appropriate bank holding company supervision should be 
discussed with the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, 
rather than at regional levels as had been proposed by the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation. Also, the proposed approach with its 
emphasis on protecting the soundness of banks was questioned inasmuch 
I 
., ' 
; \\ t, j. f.' i O 
• . .<•' ' 1 > V 1 
;' • -V . 
a s banks were already a part of the regular examination procedure. It 
was noted that the Board was now authorizing bank holding companies to 
engage in certain nonbanking activities and, accordingly, there was a 
need for appropriate supervision in this area. 
' 1 . i 
ij.;; ; I • .. i.t-, •' r- • . 
•• 
,; i. 
Before acting on the matter, it was agreed that it should be 
c°nsidered by the Coordinating Committee and studied further by the 
staff i n the light of comments at today's meeting. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew. 
San Francisco presidency. There was distributed to each Board 
member a copy of a letter of February 3, 1972, from Chairman Wilson of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco concerning possible nominees 
to succeed Eliot Swan as President of the Reserve Bank. Board members 
d * 
^scussed the various individuals named in that letter in preliminary 
fashion, and agreed to meet again when more Board members were present 
o r a fuller discussion of such individuals. 

293 
2/7/72 
-8-
Mr. Mcintosh, Director of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations, was invited into the meeting and commented on his appraisal 
of the talents of various individuals on the official staff of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
4:00 p.m. with Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan 
Present and the following staff members in attendance: 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
J-Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Congressional testimony. The Board discussed a draft of testimony 
fco be presented by Chairman Burns before the Joint Economic Committee on 
February 9, 1972. While there was general agreement on the overall tone 
and content of the draft, a number of suggestions were made with respect 
to certain portions. It was understood that the statement would be 
edited in the light of these suggestions and that it would be presented 

in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. (Note: A copy of the 
statement, as presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Letter to Representative Reuss. Suggestions were made with 
respect to portions of a draft of letter to Representative Reuss reply-
ing to his request for comments on the monetary policy guidelines that 
he had presented as supplemental views in the 1971 Report of the Joint 
Economic Committee. 
It was understood that the letter for Chairman Burns' signature 
would be revised to reflect the suggestions made at today's meeting. A 
copy of the letter in the form sent is attached as Item No. 17. 

B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
235 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
2/7/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • V H E Si P O N O E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
I J D A R D 
February 8, 1972 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
23 Wall Street 
New York, New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In response to the request in your letter of 
November 9, 1971, relating to the reporting requirements 
on stock acquisitions for Morgan & Cie. S.A.'s limited 
investment portfolio of less than F.Fr.1,000,000, the 
Board lias studied the information that you propose to 
supply and will interpose no objection to your limiting 
your information to that indicated, provided you also 
include full information concerning any business trans-
acted in the United States, or a statement thai: there is 
no such business. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D 
G F G O V E R N O R S 
t J J U 
OF THE 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2/7/72 
/ 
I
K 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2C551 
A D D R E E i S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O K R E O P O N D E N n E 
T O 
T H E 
D O A R O 
February 8, 1972 
First National City Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of November 12 and November 24, 
1971, the Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions 
Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
and Section 22 5.4(f) of Regulation Y, for First National City Corporation 
(FNCC) to purchase and hold 51.2 per cent of the shares of Interamericana 
de Equipos'de Oficina S.A. (IE0SA), Mexico City, Mexico, at a cost of 
approximately $210,000, provided approximately $50,000 of such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Section 4(c)(13), 
IE0SA shall confine its activities to international or foreign banking 
and other international or foreign financial operations. In addition, 
FNCC shall furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activities of 
IE0SA as it may require from time to time. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
they apply to your Corporation and its affiliates. 
It is understood that the shares of IE0SA are to be acquired 
through your wholly-owned subsidiary, Citicorp Leasing International, Inc. 
(CU). Your application did not request a determination that the con-
tinued holding by your Corporation of the shares of CLI would be appro-
b a t e under Section 4(c.) (13) of the Bank Holding Company Act and this 
consent is not to be construed as constituting such a determination. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D CJF G O V E R N O R S 
2 3 7 
• r T H E 
I
T
E
M 
N O - 
3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2/7/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2055? 
ADDKESE OFriCIAL C O K (7 C S PC N D E N C E
TU THE BOAKU 
February 8, 1972 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation 
735 North Water Street 
Mi j waukee, Wisconsin 53202 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated November 17, 
1971, of First Wisconsin International Bank, New York, New York, 
and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corpora-
tion to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
c-ertify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned 
by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized 
capital stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per 
cent has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individ-
ually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
Please include the amount paid in. Thereafter, the treasurer or 
secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining instalments 
as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 
Your attention is directed to the fact than First Wisconsin 
International Bank will have no original base of its own under the 

238 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation 
-2-
forei.gn credit restraint program and that any transfer of a ceiling 
must be made in accordance with Section II»D.2.a and c of the Pre-
vised Guidelines for Banks and Nonbank Financial Institutions, 
Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the understanding 
that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation will be 
made within the Guidelines as they apply to the foreign lending and 
investment activities of First Wisconsin International Bank and 
its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, n. C. 205SI 
February 8, 1972 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated November 17, 1971, of FIRST WISCONSIN INTERNATIONAL BANK 
duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that FIRST WISCONSIN 
INTERNATIONAL BANK is authorized to exercise such of the powers 
conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
Preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(SEAL) (Signed) Tynan Smith 
By 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

300 
B O A R D 
D F 
G n V E R N D R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2/7/72 
k
m
w
u
i
s
; 
••^TrB^:.* 
February 8, 1972 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
. 5 i 
• 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E B P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Irving Trust Company 
° n e Wall Street 
York, New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
N 
The Board of Governors grants its permission to Irving Trust Company, 
v' York, New York, pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the 
eeral Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Frankfurt, Germany, and to 
°Perat.e and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Sections 
a n d of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for business 
. a ° r before February 1, 1973. all rights granted hereby shall be deemed to 
ve been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will automatically 
terminate on that date. 
p 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal Reserve 
New York, when the branch is opened for business. The Board should 
so be promptly informed of any future change in location of the branch in 
prankfurt. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds pro-
*c'c.d by home, office (whether in the form of allocated capital, advances, or 
herwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes of the foreign 
Credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern with minimizing the 
•J-lTlPaet of foreign investments on the balance of payments, the above consent 
s Siven with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required will be 
made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank 
a n d its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

301 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 5 
HI 
111 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 7, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Brown City Savings Bank 
Brown City, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3) (i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $200,000 
in subordinated capital notes by Brown City Savings Bank, Brown City, 
Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago as amended by Senior Vice President Morrison's letter of 
•January 27, 1972, to Executive Vice President and Cashier Klusendorf. 
This approval is given on the condition that the capital notes 
cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity without the 
approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is granted with 
the understanding that the sale of these capital debentures will 
be consummated within six-months from the date of this letter. 
It is further understood that any advertising with respect to the 
obligations will, in addition to being in compliance with the 
provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish 
the nature of the obligation from a deposit, including by setting 
forth in bold face type that the obligation is subordinated to the 
claims of depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

— 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
302 
Item No. 6 
2/7/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 7, 1972 
Board of Directors 
The Northern Trust Company 
Chicago, Illinois 
Gentlemen; 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to ?i0,000,UUU 
in subordinated capital notes by The Northern Trust Company, Chicago, 
Illinois, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Approval is granted with the understanding that the sale of tnese 
capital debentures will be consummated within six-months from tne 
date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 3 0 3 
, 
i . 
2/7/72 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
MIDLANTIC BANKS INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Midlantic Banks Inc., Newark, New Jersey, has applied for 
u 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
<12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualify-
ing shares) of the voting shares of Madison National Bank, Madison, New 
Jersey ("Madison Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in accordance 
wifch § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and views has 
expired. The Board has considered the application and all comments re-
ceived in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
<12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date, with the pro-
vision that Applicant merge Madison Bank into one of its subsidiaries within 
tw° years of the approval date of this application. The transaction shall 
n o t be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
0 r d er, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
February 7, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
(SEAL) 
Secretary of the Board 
Noting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
°aane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Voting against this action: 
Pernor Robertson. 

—
1 
304 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATION BY 
MIDLANTIC BANK INC., NEWARK, NEW JERSEY, 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF BANK 
Nature of transaction. - Midlantic Banks Inc., Newark, 
New Jersey, a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acqui-
sition of 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) of the 
voting shares of the successor by merger to Madison National Bank, 
Edison, New Jersey ("Madison Bank1'). 
Statutory considerations. - Applicant controls four banks 
w l t h aggregate deposits of $678 million and is the fourth largest bank-
ing organization in New Jersey with 4.9 per cent of the deposits in the 
1/ 
state. 
Acquisition of Madison Bank's deposits by Applicant would not 
increase the percentage share of deposits in the State held by Applicant 
t o a significant extent. Applicant presently has two subsidiaries in the 
First Banking District of New Jersey: National Newark and Essex Bank 
("National Newark"), $602 million institution, which is the fourth 
y Banking data are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through that date. 

-6-
305 
largest bank in New Jersey and the third largest bank in the Greater 
Newark M a r k e t a n d the Sussex and Merchants National Bank of Newton, 
a $46 million institution which is the largest of four relatively 
small banks in Sussex County. Applicant also has two small sub-
sidiaries located in the Second and Third Banking Districts. 
Madison Bank, which is located in the Greater Newark Market, has 
deposits of only some $9 million, representing but .2 per cent 
o f total market deposits, and is the twenty-eighth-largest of 46 banks. 
Although both Applicant's lead bank, National Newark, and 
Madison Bank operate in the Greater Newark Market, there seems to 
b e little present competition between the two due to the tremendous 
si*e disparity between National Newark and Madison Bank. Madison 
fcank is a retail organization, serving smaller customers, whereas, 
National Newark tends to be more involved in wholesale banking. The 
ac<luisition of Madison Bank by Applicant would add little to its 
market share in the Greater Newark Market. Moreover, the great 
dumber of additional banks which would remain in the market, in-
Cludi-ng subsidiaries of five existing bank holding companies, suggests 
that there will be continued vigor of competition even if the applica-
tion is approved. 
Additionally, approval of the application should provide 
pr°-competitive effects. Madison Bank is located in Madison, New 
J e r s ey, which is an affluent community and is relatively attractive 
P^e~Greater Newark Market consists of all of Essex County and 
parts of Union, Hudson and Morris Counties. 

-3-
t o de novo branching. However, Madison is presently closed through 
home office protection accorded Madison Bank. Applicant, as a part 
its proposal to acquire Madison Bank, has agreed that it will 
merge Madison Bank into one of its subsidiaires within two years 
o f approval of this application. This would open Madison to new 
^ranching and would provide a better competitive climate. Based 
° n the foregoing and facts of record, the Board concludes that 
competitive considerations are consistent xd.th approval of the 
application. 
The financial condition of Applicant, its subsidiary 
banks, and Madison Bank is satisfactory and prospects of all are 
favorable. These considerations are consistent with approval of 
t h e application. 
Consummation of the Applicant's proposal would have a 
beneficial effect on the convenience and needs of Madison since 
it: would remove Madison Bank's home office protection within two 
years of approval of this application resulting in opening that 
°lty to branching from without. Applicant proposes to introduce 
8ervices such as data processing and also plans to expand the scope 
o f commercial lending while taking a more active role in bidding 
obligations of local governments. These considerations lend 
height for approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of th« factors set 

307 
-4-
forth in section 3(e) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
t h e proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
February 7, 1972. 

308 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
X dissent from the majority's approval of this application 
whereby the third largest banking organization in the Greater Newark 
Market, with some 17 per cent of market deposits, is permitted to 
acquire another bank which is a direct competitor. Although Appli-
cant's lead bank, National Newark, and the Madison bank are of dis-
parate size, their service areas overlap. A branch office of 
National Newark is located only seven miles from Madison Bank and 
derives a significant amount of deposits and loans from the service 
area of Madison Bank. 
Congress has enjoined this Board from approving any bank 
acquisition or merger which would substantially lessen competition 
unless there are public benefits flowing from the acquisition or 
me*ger which clearly outweigh the anticompetitive effects. The 
anticompetitive consequences of this application are serioua enough 
require a strong showing of offsetting public benefits. No such 
showing has been made. 
The Board's Statement refers to the proposal by Applicant 
to remove home office protection from Madison, New Jersey, within 
two years of approval of the application by merging Madison Bank 
vith another subsidiary of Applicant .i/ However, there is nothing 
to prevent a new bank subsequently being chartered in Madison which 
Would resurrect home office protection. I believe that the removal 
home office protection is merely a transitory benefit to competition 
iMJnder New Jersey law a city of over 7,500 population containing 
a home office of a bank is closed to de novo branching from without. 

309 
-2-
that should not be given great weight when placed in the scale 
against anticompetitive consequences of the application. 
If Applicant were serious about wanting to provide 
additional banking services to the residents of the Madison 
area, it should seek a charter for a new bank there. (Home 
office protection does not bar the chartering of a new bank.) 
This would provide public benefits by increasing competition. 
However, Applicant apparently much prefers to acquire the prof-
itable business of Madison Bank rather than to open a new competing 
bank. This preference is so strong that it is willing to pay a 
Premium of almost $1.5 million (measured by book value), which 
represents about 16 per cent of Madison Bankfs deposits. 
In the complete absence of a showing of public bene-
fits sufficient to outweigh the elimination of direct competition 
involved in consummation of the acquisition, I would deny the 
aPPiication. 
February 7, 1972. 

Item No 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/7/72 
ASSOCIATED BANK SERVICES, INC. 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
Associated Bank Services, Inc., Green Bay, Wisconsin, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Boardfs approval under § 3(a)(3) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more 
the voting shares of American National Bank of Green Bay ("Bank"), 
Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
a a d all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
l a 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits 
o f approximately $215 million, representing 2.1 per cent of the 
total commercial bank deposits in the State, and is the fourth 
*a*gest banking organization and bank holding company in Wisconsin.-^ 
acquisition of Bank ($13.5 million of deposits), Applicant's 
Position in relation to the State's other banking organizations 
aild holding companies would remain unchanged and Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State would be increased by 0.1 percentage 
Point. 
^^U^banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved through November 30, 

-2-
311 
Bank was established in 1963 by officers and directors 
of Kellogg-Citizens National Bank ("Kellogg"), Applicant's lead 
bank ($120 million of deposits), and the two banks were affiliated 
until Kellogg was acquired by Applicant upon its formation in 1970. 
At present, 44 per cent of Bank's shares are owned by management 
of Kellogg and 87 per cent of Bank's shares are held by shareholders 
of Applicant. Bank is the seventh largest of fifteen banks in the 
Green Bay banking market (which is approximately Brown County), the 
relevant market, and controls 3.5 per cent of deposits in that market. 
Applicant's subsidiary, Kellogg, is the largest banking organization 
in that market with 31.3 per cent of deposits there. Bank is located 
in a shopping center less than three miles from Kellogg which is 
located in downtown Green Bay; and the service areas of Bank and 
Kellogg overlap. However, due to their previous affiliation and 
present relationship, it appears that the two banks presently do 
not compete v;ith each other. 
Denial of the application holds out the possibility that 
the existing ownership links would be broken, and Bank could become 
an additional independent competitor with a resulting decrease in 
the share of deposits controlled by Applicant in the relevant market. 
Furthermore, approval of the proposed acquisition would foreclose 
Bank as a possible point of entry for another bank holding company, 
and would solidify Kellogg's and Applicant's already dominant position 
in the relevant market. On the basis of the record before it, the 

Board concludes that the effect of approval of the application 
herein may be substantially to lessen competition in the Green 
Bay area. Accordingly, this application should be disapproved 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect o£ the-
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
In our judgment, consummation of Applicant's proposal 
Would result in no significant benefit to the convenience or 
ueeds of the community to be served. The record indicates that 
t h e area's needs are being'sferved.adequately by the banks-serving 
the area. Bank is also providing, directly, or indirectly through 
Kellogg 
as its correspondent, the fall line of services needed in 
it:s service area. If the application is denied, Bank reasonably 
may be expected to provide similar services with the assistance 
one or more correspondents - vhether as an independent bank or 
a s a subsidiary of a bank holding company. Considerations relating 
t o the convenience and needs of the communities to be served do 
11011 clearly outweigh the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction. Considerations relating to financial and managerial 
Resources and future prospects of Applicant, its sub aid iar lea,- and 
Bank are regarded as consistent with approval of the application 

313 
ji 
J! 
fe 1 
M : I • 
H 
m 
-6-
but do not add strong weight for approval. On the basis of the 
record, the Board concludes that approval of the proposed acquisition 
is not in the public interest, and approval is accordingly denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^/ February 7, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
^^oting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
itchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 
' 

Item No 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/7/72 
ASSOCIATED BANK SERVICES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Associated Bank Services, Inc., Green Bay, Wisconsin, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 80 per cent or more 
the voting shares of Neenah West National Bank ("Bank"), 
N*enah, Wisconsin. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
an<* all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
i n § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits 
o f approximately $215 million, representing 2.1 per cent of the 
total commercial bank deposits in the State, and is the fourth 
largest banking organization and bank holding company in Wisconsin.-^ 
applicant* 
s acquisition of Bank ($5.7 million in deposits) would 
itlcrease Applicant's share of deposits in the State by 0.1 per-
centage point without affecting Applicant's ranking.-
i ^ T T banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding 
company formations and acquisition* approved through November 30, 

315 
Bank was organized in 1966 by directors and officers of 
The First National Bank of Neenah ("Neenah National"), and was an 
affiliate of Neenah National until the latter bank was acquired 
by Applicant on May 1, 1970. Presently, about 36 per cent of 
Bank's stock is held by management of Neenah National and over 
70 per cent of Bank's stock is held by shareholders of Applicant; 
the close association that existed appears to be a continuing 
relationship. It appears that the two banks do not in fact 
compete with each other, even though the main offices of Bank 
an<* Neenah National are located only 1.5 miles apart and there 
is considerable overlap of the respective service areas. 
Bank is the smallest of the 15 banks in the Appleton 
banking 
market, the relevant market, which is approximated by 
tl*e southeast portion of Outagamie County and the northeast 
p°ttion of Uinnebago County, and holds 1.7 per cent of deposits 
i n that market. Applicant's subsidiary, Neenah National ($43.6 
m iUion i n deposits), holds 12.3 per cent of the total deposits 
iri the market. Two Appleton-based holding companies operate 
five banks in the market and together they control about 47 
Per cent of total deposits there. Competing in the same market 
is the third largest banking organization in the State. The 
Requisition of Bank would have a minimal effect on concentration 
in view of the relationship between Bank and Neenah National, 
said acquisition apparently would not eliminate any existing com-
petition. If the application were denied, the existing ownership 

316 
-6-
ties might eventually be dissolved and Bank might be able to become 
an independent competitor. However, in view of the facts of record, 
including Bank's small size and small market share, and the number 
and size of banks already in the market, such possible disassociation 
is not likely to have a significant procompetitive effect. On the 
basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would not have a significantly adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. Nor is consummation 
likely to have any significant adverse effects on Bank's competitors. 
Applicant proposes to aid Bank in the technical aspects 
of lending, investments, data processing, trust services, marketing, 
accounting and auditing, as well as provide for management succession. 
While many of these services are already being furnished, it appears 
that the acquisition would assure the continuation by Bank of present 
services and the addition of improved and expanded services in the 
future. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served lend some weight toward approval of 
the application. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects as they relate to Applicant, its 
subsidiaries and Bank, are regarded as generally satisfactory. 
Applicant is in a position to assist Bank in meeting its need 
additional capital; and proposes to add $100,000 to Bank's 

-4-
caPital account. Applicant's acquisition of Bank would enhance 
Bank's prospects. Banking factors lend weight toward approval. 
*t is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
ac(luisition would be in the public interest and that the applica-
tion should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
this Order, unless such period ig extended for good cause by 
e Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,-— February 7, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2 T ^ p r — 
—. 
oting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
atie, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Voting against this action: 
Ve*nor Robertson. 

318 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I would deny the subject application as the acquisition will 
Preclude the possibility of future competition between Bank and Neenah 
National. Furthermore, Applicant's acquisition of Bank would remove a 
means of entry for another bank holding company, the result of which 
w°uld be to enhance competition. 
Bank and Applicant's subsidiary, two of the three banks 
derating 
in Neenah, are located in an industrial center which borders 
the western side of Lake Winnebago. Acquisition of Bank will increase 
applicant's control of deposits in the city of Neenah from 54.6 per 
Cent to 61.8 per cent and will perpetuate Applicant's dominance in 
Neenah. Because of the market overlap, these banks are potentially 
Coinpetitive 
and, if their association were ended by a denial of this 
^Plication, competition between them could be expected. I conclude 
tbat consummation of the acquisition will have an adverse effect on 
c°mpetition 
and the application should not be approved in the absence 
0f a finding of positive benefits to the public that outweigh such 
adverse effects. 
Applicant proposes to continue providing services already 
made available through Bank. As the evidence on the record indicates 
t^at the banking needs of the community are presently being met, 
^pPlicant is not offering to provide any benefits to the public that 
°Utveigh the anticompetitive effects of the acquisition. 
In my judgment, the application should be denied. 

9 
319 
Item No. 10 
Hi 
111 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANK SECURITIES. INC.. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Bank Securities Inc., Alamogordo, New Mexico, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 60 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of First National Bank of Portales, Portales, New 
Mexico ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, third largest of four multi-bank holding 
companies in New Mexico, has six subsidiary banks controlling $91.2 
m iHion in deposits representing 5.4 per cent of total deposits 
held by commercial banks io>. the State, (All b a n k i n g i r e AS 
°f June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company formations and 
Requisitions approved through November 30, 1971.) Upon acqiiisi^ 
fcion of Bank ($12Ufi milUod deposits) 4pplicant18 jhars 
if* the State *royld> increase by approximately ,8 percentage points, 
atld ffe® present ranking vould remain jffldtaMtgfi4« Bank, thJe third 
largest of five banks in the Roosevelt-Curry County area, which 

320 
-2-
aPproximates its banking market, operates two banking offices in 
Portales, New Mexico, and controls approximately 14 per cent of 
commercial bank deposits in the market. 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank would constitute its 
initial entry into the area, and its subsidiary banking office 
closest to Bank is located approximately 125 miles northwest of 
Bank. No competition exists between Bank and any of Applicant's 
subsidiary banks, nor does it appear likely that such competition 
vill develop in the future in light of the distances separating 
Bank from Applicant's subsidiaries, Bank's relatively small size, 
and the State's restrictive branching laws. Consummation of this 
Proposal would neither eliminate any meaningful existing competi-
tion nor foreclose significant potential competition. 
Although it does not appear that any needs of the 
banking public in Bank's market are going unserved, Applicant 
Proposes to provide additional specialized services such as 
business and investment counseling and a convenient source of 
Capital to permit the servicing of larger loans. The extension 
o f these services should afford some benefit to the public. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
APPiicant, its subsidiaries and Bank are generally satisfactory 
and consistent with approval. In addition, Applicant's inten-
tion to modify its present management fee policy as concerns 
its subsidiary banks should have a beneficial effect on the 
Prospects of these banks and the interests of their minority 
shareholders. 

Additional consideration has been given to the form of 
Applicant's proposal. The Board has on a number of occasions 
expressed the view that failure to make an equivalent offer to 
minority shareholders is considered as an adverse circumstance 
(e.g., 1971 Bulletin 415 and 688). Applicant plans to purchase 
for cash 60 per cent of Bank's shares from four individuals, who 
are principals of Applicant, pursuant to an option agreement 
executed with these individuals in December 1970. Applicant 
Proposes to offer an exchange of shares to all minority share-
holders of Bank at an exchange ratio based upon Applicant's 
estimated present valuation of its shares rather than at a 
ratio based u p m the actual m a r k e t price of Applicant's stock 
at the time of the exchange. 
The laafd Wifben m mm the dlfftoityA even after 
mlske^ i^tlipfiiSSi in determining a true market 
value of closely held, thinly traded bank holding company 
shares, for the purpose of evaluating the equivalence of a 
combination cash-exchange offer transaction of the type pro-
posed by Applicant. In view of this difficulty, there exists 
the possibility that an exchange offer which is not identical 
to the terms agreed to with holders of a majority of the 
oaf ferve iffUSi fOTtli tNU&tt* 
& 
tM 
m
^ 
dlt* 
advantage of mimzity 
^ 
ielxi 
believes that where it is prspsieil $Mt> 
b a i* shar¥i5 are not te he W m t M 
the tar^iB 

-2-
322 
rests upon the proponents to demonstrate the substantial equivalence 
the offers extended. Upon a review of the material supplied in 
support of Applicant's proposal, and upon analysis of the current 
value of its shares and the future prospects and conditions in 
Applicant's market, the Board concludes that the proposed offer 
to minority shareholders is substantially equivalent to that given 
the Bank's original majority shareholders. Accordingly, the Board 
concludes that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
o f this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 7, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
"sane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Voting against this action: 
0vernor Robertson. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
The Board's action approving Applicant's proposal adds 
a cover of legitimacy to a transaction which in my view clearly 
violated the Bank Holding Company Act in its inception. 
In January, 1970, Applicant entered into an agreement 
with principals of Bank owning 60 per cent of Bank's shares 
whereby Applicant agreed to purchase a portion of these shares 
at that time and was given an option to purchase the remainder 
these shares for cash within one year. Prior to the expira-
tion of this agreement, Applicant, not having applied for Board 
aPproval of this acquisition, found itself unable to exercise 
its option. Consequently, Applicant assigned its purchase 
°Ption to four individuals, all of whom are officers and/or 
directors of Applicant, who purchased 55 per cent of Bank's 
outstanding shares with expressed intention of selling such 
shares to Applicant. Subsequently, Applicant entered into an 
°Ption agreement with these purchasers providing for Applicant's 
Purchase of these shares for cash within one year on similar 
terms to Applicant's original agreement with shareholders of 
Bank. 
Had Applicant exercised its original option to pur-
chase Bank's shares prior to receiving Board approval, that 
transaction would have been prohibited as a violation of § 3 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. Applicant accomplished 

324 
-2-
I: 
this ptohibitetl acquisition by means of a scheme involving four 
°f its officials. 
The Act does not require prior Board approval of 
acquisitions of bank shares by individuals acting in their own 
behalf. However, the facts of the present case establish that 
Applicant's officials were acting on behalf of Applicant to 
Preserve a corporate opportunity which would be lost at the 
expiration of the option term after Applicant found itself 
unable to consummate the purchase. Acquisition by Applicant's 
representatives was made with the express intention of trans-
ferring the shares to Applicant when it became legally per-
missible. Although Applicant asserts that no agreement or 
Mutual understanding existed between it and these individuals, 
tl^e fact that all dividends from Bank's shares were assigned 
to Applicant over the option period indicates the true intended 
beneficiary of the transaction. These circumstances reveal a 
clear attempt to avoid the requirements of § 3 of the Act. 
1 conclude that Applicant, "acting through one or more persons", 
c°ntrolled and had the power to vote more than 25 per cent of 
Bank's shares and thereby violated § 3 of the Act by making this 
Requisition without Board approval. The Board should neither 
encourage nor condone this type of statutory evasion by com-
panies desiring to preserve an option until an opportunity 

325 
-6-
for lawful acquisition comes along. The Boardfs action approving 
tl*is acquisition can only serve to encourage other attempts to 
av°id full statutory compliance prior to making a desire acquisition. 
In addition, I disagree with the majority's apparent 
b eHef that it can or must determine the relative equivalency of 
9n of£er to Bank's minority shareholders based upon a guess as to 
the ^rket for Applicant's shares some time in the future. The 
f a i l u r e of Applicant to extend an offer to minority shareholders 
°n fche same terms as those extended majority interests improperly 
P l a c e s the burden on the Board to establish the relative equiva-
le 
ncy Of differing offers. This is inappropriate in any case, more 
s° ^hen, as in this case, the proposed exchange is calculated at a 
Predetermined rate based upon the present valuation of Applicant s 
Sllares rather than the value at the time of the actual exchange. 
Judgments such as made by the majority in this case engage the Board 
the business of securities market speculation in an effort to 
its conclusions with regard to an exchange offer. Applicant, 
in 
view, has not presented sufficient arguments to support its 
tefusal to extend an exchange offer to minority shareholders based 
Up°n fche value of its shares at the time of the exchange. For this 
rsao 
s°n> the proposed transaction is thus not in the public interest. 
I would deny the application. 
Qruary 7 > 1972. 

326 
Item No. 11 
FEDERAL jfc$EkVE SYSTEM 
2/7/72 
FIRST TULSA BANCORFORATION, INC. 
Order Denying Acquisition of 
Hall Investment Company 
"S 
' 
•'•• a -i . 
First Tulsa Bancorporation, Inc., Tulsa, Oklahoma, a bank 
holding 
company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
as amended, has applied for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) 
°f the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire all 
the voting shares of Hall Investment Company ("Company"), Tulsa, 
Oklahoma. Notice of the application affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views, was duly published (36 
federal 
Register 21849). Time for filing comments and views has 
Spired and none have been received. 
The operation of a mortgage company by a bank holding com-
pany is an activity that the Board has determined to be closely related 
to banking (12 C.F.R. 225.4(a)(1)). A bank holding company may acquire 
a company engaged in this activity so long as the proposed acquisition 
ls consistent with the relevant factors specified in section 4(c)(8) 
o f the Act. 
Applicant owns the First National Bank and Trust Company of Tulsa 
("Bank"), the third largest banking organization in Oklahoma. Bankfs 
total deposits of $407.7 million (deposit data are for June, 1971) 
Represent 7.0 per cent of all commercial bank deposits in the State, 
a n d 31,5 per cent of those within Tulsa County. Within Tulsa County, 
Bank is engaged in extending credit secured by real property through 

327 
-2-
(1) permanent mortgage loans on one-four family residential properties, 
(2) permanent mortgage loans on income producing properties, and (3) 
construction loans. 
Company, the second* largest mortgage, cocpany in Tulsa 
County and the 227th largest mortgage company in the nation, specializes 
in the origination and servicing of single-family mortgage loans. As 
o f June, 1971, Company had a mortgage servicing portfolio of $80.2 
million. In addition to its office in Tulsa, Company has recently 
°pened an office in Oklahoma City. 
Bank and Company are both engaged in the making of permanent 
°ne-four family residential mortgages in Tulsa County. In 1970, Bank 
originated $4.5 million of such mortgages, and Company originated $7.9 
million of such mortgages. It is estimated that Bank's share of the 
Permanent one-four family residential mortgage market in Tulsa County 
W a s 4,3 per cent in 1970, whereas Company's share was 7.5 per cent, 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition would increase Applicant's 
share of that market to nearly 12 per cent and would eliminate a signi-
ficant competitive alternative in that market. Furthermore, consumma-
tion 
of the proposed acquisition would foreclose the potential develop-
ment of further competition between Bank and Company. 
Applicant contends that consummation of the proposed acqui-
$itlon would enable it to provide additional funds for the development 
0 f low and moderate income housing in Tulsa and would produce gains in 

328 
-6-
efticiency# The basis for such contention is not clearly evidenced in 
the record but, in any case, the Board concludes that even if such pub-
lic benefits were to result, this would not outweigh the adverse effects 
indicated above. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
the record, the Board has concluded that the public interest factors 
the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) are not favor-
able to the requested determination and do not outweigh possible adverse 
ef£ects. Accordingly, the application is hereby denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 7, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Iv^ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, liaisel, 
^iinmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

Item No. 
2/7/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Banc Group of Ohio, Columbus, Ohio, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to Clermont 
National 
Bank, Milford, Ohio ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is 
to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the 
Requisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
Requisition of the shares of the successor organization is treated 
herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a l 1 comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
0f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls nine banks with deposits of $715.5 million, 
^Presenting 3.2 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State, 
atl(i is the seventh largest banking organization in Ohio. (All banking 
•p 
data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved through November 30, 1971.)—^ Acquisition of Bank 
T T T V T — 
acn 
January 25, 1972, Applicant received approval from the Board to 
of ?fre The Ashland Bank and Savings Company, Ashland, Ohio (deposits 
H 2 . 8 million). 

-2-
(deposits of $48.9 million) would increase Applicant's share of deposits 
in the State by approximately .2 percentage points, and its present 
ranking would remain unchanged. Consummation of the proposed trans-
ition would not result in a substantial increase in the concentration 
of banking resources in the State. 
Bank's main office and two of its eight branch offices are 
located in Milford, Ohio, 16 miles east of Cincinnati, Ohio. It is 
t h e seventh largest of 39 banks in the Cincinnati market and controls 
1,9 Per cent of market deposits. Applicant's subsidiary closest to 
Bai* is located in a separate market approximately 19 miles northwest 
of Bank. Although some competition exists between bank and Applicant's 
closest subsidiary, the amount of competition is not considered sub-
stantial. Thus, consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
h a v e a significantly adverse effect on existing competition. 
The amount of potential competition which may be foreclosed 
by the proposed acquisition is regarded as insubstantial in view of 
tlle structure of the Cincinnati banking market, Bank's size, and 
°hi°!s restrictive branch banking laws. The proposal represents 
Applicant's 
initial entry into the Cincinnati market, a market in 
which the top four banking organizations control over 80 per cent 
0f banking deposits, and consummation of the proposal may serve 
to Simulate competition in this area. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
C°nsummation of the proposed transaction would not result in a 
^opoly, n o r b e i n furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or 

331 
-6-
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
2/ 
5 Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
* Haisel. 
attemPt to monopolize the business of bakking in any part of the 
United States, and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen 
competition, or tend to create a monopoly in any section of the 
c°untry. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
0f Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are regarded as satisfactory 
and consistent with approval. Although there is no evidence that 
sl8nificant 
banking needs of the communities involved are going 
Unserved, Applicant proposes to expand mortgage, educational, con-
f e r and industrial loans services and provide trust facilities 
thr 
r°ugh its lead bank. Accordingly, considerations relating to con-
Venience and needs of the community lend some weight toward approval. 
It i 
l s the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
fL 
e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
Such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
^eserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— February 7, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 

332 
Item No. 13 
2/7/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL BANKSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
First National Bankshares of Florida, Inc., Pompano Beach, 
Florida, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a 
bank holding company through acquisition of 90 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of First National Bank of Pompano Beach, Pompano 
fieachj First National Bank of North Broward County, Lighthouse 
Point; First National Bank of Margate, Margate, and Beach First 
National Bank of Pompano Beach, Pompano Beach, all in the State of 
piorida. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
at|d all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant was formed for the purpose of acquiring the 
f°ur proposed subsidiary banks, all of which are affiliated 
through common stock ownership. Upon acquisition of Pompano 
Beach Bank (deposits of $72.5 million), North Broward Bank (de-
Posits of $31.6 million), Margate Bank (deposits of $19 million), 
Beach First Bank (deposits of $8.2 million), Applicant would 
become the largest banking organization (deposits of $131.3 million) 

333 
Within the relevant market, which is approximated by the northern^ 
one-third of Broward County and Boca Raton in Palm Beach County. 
Although Applicant would have 32.6 per cent of the commercial bank 
deposits in its market area, there would be no increase in market 
concentration and less than 1 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deposits in Florida would be held by Applicant's proposed subsidiary 
b*nV;s, thereby making Applicant the eighteenth largest of twenty-
thres holding companies in the State. 
The stockholders of Pompano Beach Bank organized de 
I!2vo North Broward Bank, Margate Bank and Beach First Bank. 
Pompano Beach Bank's stockholders own between 65 and 90 per cent 
°f the three affiliated banks and have been instrumental in the 
"Management of such banks. Since the affiliation among the four 
banks 
appears to be strong and is unlikely to diminish, there 
ls no meaningful existing competition. It appears unlikely that 
competition among the banks will develop in the future or that 
competing banks would be adversely affected by the holding company 
formation. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and 
lhe proposed subsidiaries are satisfactory and consistent with 
approval. It appears that consummation of the proposal would not 
-J/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding cora-
pany formations and acquisitions approved through December 31, 1971. 

334 
-6-
have any immediate effects on the convenience and needs of the 
community, although the improvement and expansion of services may 
be facilitated by the operational structure of a holding company. 
Considerations related to the convenience and needs of the com-
munities to be served are, therefore, consistent with approval. 
*t is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would 
b e in the public interest and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
°f this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 7, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
if voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
aane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
a n d Haisel. 

B D A R D OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
OF 
T H E 
Item No. 14 
2/7 111 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 20, 1972 
f 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
33 Liberty Street 
New York, New York 10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors has approved the appointment and 
payment of salary to Mr. Thomas 0. Waage as Senior Vice President 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at the annual rate of 
$47,000, effective January 6, 1972. This is the salary fixed 
by your Board of Directors and reported in your letter of 
January 7, 1972. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

Item No. J & 3 6 
2/7/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANQUE NATIONALE DE PARIS 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Banque Nationale de Paris, Paris, France, has applied for 
fche Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of French Bank of California, San Francisco, 
California ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, wholly-owned by the French government, is the 
latgest bank in France and the second largest in the European Economic 
Co®munity# it operates over 1,600 branches in France and, directly 
°r through subsidiaries, has over 300 additional offices located in 
11101:6 than 50 foreign countries. Applicant and its subsidiaries con-
trol 
it 
A approximately $9.2 billion in deposits. Applicant engages in 
^ U i n g activities in New York through French American Banking Cor-
po*ation ("FABC"), its wholly-owned subsidiary chartered as an "invest-
mei*t company" under Article XII of the New York State Banking Law. 
S T -A u banking data are as of May 31, 1971. 

- 2 -
337 
X t also has an agency in San Francisco, California. The Board has 
Previously ruled that FABC is not a "bank" within the meaning of 
section 2(c) of the Act. 
French Bank of California proposes to be primarily a whole-
sale bank specializing in the financing of international trade, Appli-
cant has one office in San Francisco, but that office is an agency 
and is not authorized to accept deposits. The proposed new bank is 
expected to compete principally with other foreign-owned banks and 
with the international departments of the larger California banks 
having international banking capabilities. Based on the record before 
l t, the Board concludes that Bank's entry into the California market 
^ill have no adverse effects on existing or potential competition. 
Rather. the addition of Bank will provide increased banking facilities 
competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant and Bank are regarded as satisfactory and consistent with 
aPproval of the application. Considerations relating to the conven-
ience and needs of the community to be served lend some weight toward 
aPProval, as Bank would become the first commercial banking subsidiary 
o f a European Economic Community member nation in California and could 
se*ve as a channel for additional French investment in the United States. 
X t is the Boardfs judgment that the proposed formation would be in the 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 

338 
-6-
In connection with the present application, Applicant also 
applied for the Board's permission to retain its ownership of FABC 
and certain investments held indirectly through FABC. Those invest-
ments include French American Capital Corporation, New York City, a 
vholly«owned subsidiary of FABC, and two minority investments of French 
American Capital Corporation in Locafranee-U.S, Corporation and Indumat 
Equipment Corporation, each located in New York City. These matters 
separately considered by the Board under section 4(c)(9) of the 
A ct and are the subject of another order issued today by the Board. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
fche reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order; and (c) 
French Bank of California, San Francisco, California, shall be opened 
f o r business not later than six months after the date of this Order. 
Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
^ 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 7, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
|/~Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
aane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
a n d Maisel. 

Item No. 3 8 9 
2/7/72 
FEDERAL kBS&tW SYSTEM 
BANQUE NATIONALE DE PARIS 
Order Approving Retention of Investment in French American 
Banking Corporation, French American Capital Corporation, 
and Locafrance-U.S. Corporation and Disapproving Retention 
of Investment in Indumat Equipment Corporation 
Banque Nationale de Paris ("BNP"), Paris, France, has applied 
°r the Board's approval under section 4(c)(9) of the Bank Holding 
C o m p a ny Act to retain all of the voting shares of French American Banking 
CorPoration ("FABC"), New York City, and of FABC's wholly-owned subsidiary, 
Fr 
er*ch American Capital Corporation ("FACC"), New York City, if BNP becomes 
a bank holding company. 
BNP has received the Board's permission to become a bank holding 
c°mPany through the acquisition of all of the voting stock (less directors' 
shares) of a proposed new bank in San Francisco, California, to 
e named French Bank of California. If the proposed acquisition is consum-
BNP 
will be a foreign bank holding company within the meaning of 
of Regulation Y. 
FABC is an "investment company" chartered under Article XII 
of th 
n e New York State Banking Law. It is engaged in banking activities, 
ng short- and medium-term lending, acceptances, remittance of 
» foreign exchange transactions, and related activities. FABC 
s credit balances for the account of its customers in connection 
transactions that it is legally authorized to perform, but does 
*ot a *ccept deposits. Except for FABC's investment in the shares of its 
*boilv 
*y~owned subsidiary FACC, FABC does not directly own more than 5 per 
the shares of any company. 
lncludi 
funds 
^ceiVe 

340 
-2-
FACC is a corporation organized in 1970 under the laws of 
the State of Delaware that specializes in investing funds for its own 
account, it plans to expand its activities to provide investment 
advisory services and corporate financial services, including assistance 
in mergers and acquisitions. Most of FACC's funds have been placed in 
short-term investments, including purchase of participations in FABC's 
loans and investment in negotiable corporate and government notes. 
PACC has also made venture capital investments and has invested in 
securities 
listed on an exchange. Among its venture capital investments, 
PACC has acquired more than 5 per cent of the voting shares of two 
United States subsidiaries of French corporations. It has a 15 per cent 
interest in Locafrance-U.S. Corporation, which is engaged in the business 
of leasing equipment, and a 15.0 per cent interest in Indumat Equipment . 
CorPoration, which sells and leases scaffolding systems. Both such 
c°rporations are located in New York City. 
Section 4(c)(9) of the Act provides that the prohibitions 
of section 4 shall not apply to the investments or activities of 
foreign bank holding companies that conduct the greater part of 
business outside the United States, if the Board by regulation 
Qy, 
order determines that, under the circumstances and subject to 
t h e conditions set forth in the regulation or order, the exemption 
W°uld not be substantially at variance with the purposes of the Act 
and would be in the public interest. In 5 225.4(g)(2)(iv) of Regula-
t i o n Y, the Board has determined that a foreign bank holding company 

341 
-6-
may» with the Board's consent, own or control voting shares of any 
company principally engaged in the United States in financing or 
Militating transactions in international or foreign commerce. From 
the information submitted by the Applicant, it appears that the great 
majority of FABC's business is conducted with, or on behalf of, foreign 
Customers and that FABC is principally engaged in international or 
foreign banking in competition with other financial institutions in 
York City, including branches or agencies of foreign banks, the 
international banking departments of New York banks, and Edge Act 
subsidiaries of other banks. FABC is active in the domestic market 
f°r call loans to brokers, bankers' acceptances, and bankers' certifi-
cates of deposit; however, such business is small in proportion both 
t° FABC's total business and to the markets for these types of assets 
in New York City. 
Iu the Board's judgment, FABC's activities meet the conditions 
f o r exemption set forth in section 4(c)(9) of the Act and § 225.4(g)(2)(iv) 
of Regulation Y. In the Board's judgment, FACC's investment activities 
as ^escribed by Applicant are consistent with the purposes of the Act 
and the public interest, except as noted below and subject to the 
condition 
that FACC not invest in more than 5 per cent of the voting 
s^ares, or acquire control over the management or policies, of any issuer 
Ay. 
^ePt with prior Board approval. FACC's proposed investment advisory 
Services and its investment in Locafrance-U.S. Corporation are consistent 
with the scope of activities permitted to a domestic bank holding company 
Under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and §§ 225.4(a)(5) and (6) of Regulation Y. 

342 
- 4 -
The term "corporate financial services" as used by Applicant 
describe a proposed new activity of FACC is not specifically defined 
in the application. The Board is of the view that FACC should be 
Permitted to furnish financial services of a kind authorized by 
§ 225.4(a)(5) of Regulation Y. The Board has not determined that 
assistance in mergers and acquisitions is included among such services. 
FACC's investment in Indumat Equipment Corporation is 
a n investment that would not be permissible to a domestic bank holding 
Company, since Indumat is engaged in the business of selling goods in 
the United States. The Board believes that such an investment is 
^appropriate for a foreign bank holding company, and no sound reasons 
have been advanced by Applicant in support of a contrary conclusion. 
Competition in international or foreign banking in the 
York market will be promoted if BNP is permitted to retain 
its investments in FABC and FACC. FABC is a small competitor in 
this 
market, and it is in the public interest that such competition 
b e Preserved to the extent consistent in other respects with the 
PUrPoses of the Act. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
i n the record, and based upon the assumption that BNP will become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of voting shares 
0 f French Bank of California in accordance with its application approved 
b y the Board, the Board has made the following determinations: 

343 
1. Pursuant to section 4(c)(9) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(g)(2)(iv) of Regulation Y, the Board consents 
to the continued ownership by BNP of all of FABC's 
voting shares. 
2. Pursuant to section 4(c)(9) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(g)(3) of Regulation Y, the Board approves the 
continued indirect ownership by BNP of all of FACC's 
voting shares, subject to the following conditions: 
(a) That FACC limit its corporate financial 
services to the kind of services authorized by 
§ 225.4(a)(5) of Regulation Y, 
(b) That BNP dispose of its indirect 15 per 
cent interest in Indumat Equipment Corporation 
within two years from the date as of which it 
becomes a bank holding company. 
3. Pursuant to section 4(c)(9) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(g)(3) of Regulation Y, the Board approves 
' 
; • 
<
>
• 
. 
the continued indirect ownership by BNP of 15 per cent 
of 
the voting shares of Locafrance-U.S. Corporation, 
New York City, provided that Locafranee confines its 
activities to leasing of personal property and equip-
ment in accordance with § 225.4(a)(6) of Regulation Y. 
The foregoing determinations are subject to the Board's 
[°rity to require reports by, and make examinations of, holding 

344 
-6-
c°mpanies arid their subsidiaries; to require such modification 
0r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of 
it:s subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regula-
tions and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof; 
and to revocation by the Board if the facts upon which it is based 
change in any material respect. 
By order of the Board of GovernorsT^February 7, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
^ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
an<* Mais el. 

^ovcpu/--
" Xfr, 
345 
Item No. 17 
• o ^ B ^ o ' . 
2/7/72 
W M f y 
C H A I R M A N 
O F 
T H E 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
^ i H ^ V - ' ^ f i v y M w • 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
-t I I P ' 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
February 7, 1972 
^he Honorable Henry S. Reuss 
House of Representatives 
United States Congress 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Congressman Reuss: 
In your letter of January 14, you asked for my judgment 
r egar ding your new, suggested guidelines for the conduct of 
Monetary policy as well as for suggestions that might i m p r o v e 
the guidelines. 
You also inquired whether the Federal R e s e r v e 
System followed or deviated f r o m the suggested guidelines during 
1971, 
I concur in your view that a broad set of guidelines is 
greatly p r e f e r a b l e to a simple rule such as "Keep the money 
supply, narrowly defined, in the range of 2,-6 per cent growth 
Per year. " 
I would only add that financial conditions are not 
adequately represented by a single variable such as the n a r r o w l y -
defined money supply (M^), even when subject to various caveats 
and qualifications. 
Monetary policy must take into account the 
behavior of other monetary aggregates, the liquidity position of 
key s e c t o r s , interest rate movements and relationships, and 
°verall credit conditions, 
since all these have a significant 
^earing on d o m e s t i c spending and e c o n o m i c activity and also on 
developments in the balance of payments. 
Your first qualification--varying the growth in M 1 to 
take account of inflows of interest-bearing deposits at banks 
nonbank financial institutions — recognizes the importance 
broader m e a s u r e s of money supply. 
I believe that the 
behavior of M j has to be gauged against a still broader spectrum 
o f liquid assets, including short-dated market instruments as 
w e l l as deposits. 
M o r e o v e r , quite apart f r o m changing p r e f e r -
ences for various liquid assets, changes in the demand for money 

348 
•'-he Honorable Henry S. Reuss - Page 2. 
relative to i n c o m e can occur in response to such factors as the 
extent: of precautionary attitudes, interest rate expectations, 
and 
changing cash management p r a c t i c e s . 
Changing attitudes toward 
cash may need to be accommodated by monetary policy if overall 
credit conditions are not to be affected in ways that are adverse 
e c o n o m i c activity. 
I a m entirely in a c c o r d with the main thrust of your second 
ai"id third qualifications. 
They provide needed discretion and f l e x i -
bility for monetary policy to take account of the degree of r e s o u r c e 
utilization, lags in the impact of policy actions, the stage of the 
business c y c l e , f i s c a l policy, and liquidity p r e f e r e n c e s of the 
Public. 
I a g r e e in general with your fourth qualification which 
l ridicates that a w a g e - p r i c e - i n c o m e s policy should be included, 
along with a m o d e r a t e rate of growth in the money stock and a 
sound f i s c a l policy, in attacking cost-push inflation,, 
As you 
know, I have been a strong proponent of i n c o m e s policies in 
specific c i r c u m s t a n c e s ; but I regard them as temporary 
Measures, useful mainly in speeding the transition f r o m a 
Period of e x c e s s demand to general price stability. 
I would 
hope that p r o g r e s s can be made in improving the structure of 
°ur labor and product markets so that competition can do its 
J°b m o r e effectively. 
Thus, I would prefer to regard an in-
comes policy as a special, temporary supplement to monetary 
a i ld f i s c a l policies when sustained cost i n c r e a s e s are occurring 
l r i a period of persisting inflationary expectations and high une-
mployment. 
As for your fifth qualification, I would think that any target 
rate of growth of M.j should be evaluated over a period of at least 
months. 
Experience has repeatedly demonstrated how volatile 
tJle public's demand for money can be. 
It also appears that Federal 
R e s e r v e action to stimulate or dampen growth of the money supply 
l r ifluences actual growth with an appreciable but variable lag. 

348 
•'-he Honorable Henry S. Reuss - Page 2. 
Deviations f r o m s o m e desired long-run M^ growth can and do 
occur for months without significantly affecting future levels of 
economic activity. 
How long that interval may be is a question 
to which e c o n o m i c knowledge does not yet provide unequivocal 
answers. 
But some evidence that we have examined definitely 
suggests a period longer than three months. 
Thus, I would ex-
pand the period in your fifth qualification f r o m three months to 
six months. 
I have s o m e difficulty with your sixth qualification. 
The 
first sentence of the second paragraph suggests that when the 
Federal R e s e r v e System seeks to affect international capital 
flows, it should vary the maturity of its portfolio to influence 
interest differentials between l o n g - t e r m and s h o r t - t e r m s e c u -
rities. 
Yet the rest of that paragraph--taken f r o m my sugges-
tions in response to your questions in the July 1970 hearings of 
the Joint E c o n o m i c C o m m i t t e e - - s u g g e s t s that such differentials 
are less important than differentials between s h o r t - t e r m yields 
in one country and those in another or betv/een l o n g - t e r m yields 
in the two countries. 
Thus, I am not persuaded that varying the 
maturity of the System's portfolio would materially affect inter-
national capital flows. 
M o r e o v e r , it would not s e e m n e c e s s a r y 
to limit the effect of monetary policy on international capital flows 
to changes in the maturity structure of the System portfolio. 
In 
recent y e a r s , for example, the System has made use of r e s e r v e 
requirements on Euro-dollar borrowings of banks to affect inter-
national capital flows. 
Your final qualification suggests that the consequences of 
monetary policy for the homebuilding industry should be taken 
into account by purchasing issues of F e d e r a l housing agencies 
and by lengthening the System's portfolio at times of monetary 
stringency. 
As you know, since September 1971, the Federal 
° p e n Market Committee has been purchasing agency issues out-
right, including those of the housing agencies. 
But it should be 
borne in mind that such purchases are likely to have only marginal 
significance for the housing market. 
Similarly, a general lengthening 
of the System's portfolio would probably have no m o r e than a m a r -
ginal impact on l o n g - t e r m rates. 

The Honorable Henry S. Reuss - Page 4. 
Other measures are needed to reduce cyclical fluctuations 
housing. 
Possible approaches are explored in the Board's staff 
study of the mortgage market, which has previously been forwarded 
t o the Congress. 
Let m e turn now to the relation between Federal Reserve 
Policy in 1971 and the suggested guidelines. 
Over the year the 
Narrowly-defined money supply expanded at a 6.2 per cent annual 
rate, which is at the upper end of the guidelines. 
But during the 
V^ar the rate of growth in M^ (taken in seasonally-adjusted form) 
fluctuated widely, growing in the first half at a 10 per cent annual 
rate and in the second half at a Z. 4 per cent rate. 
The reasons for the disparate growth rates are very 
largely those covered by your proposed guidelines. 
During the 
fl;rst half, rapid growth of M j reflected the special circumstance 
the catch-up first quarter rise in economic activity, following 
the auto strike of late 1970 when M j grew at a relatively slow 
Pace. 
Growth remained rapid in the second quarter partly because 
0.f an increased preference for liquidity by the public in the face of 
Counting balance of payments problems, gathering doubts about 
t^e nation's ability to control inflation,and persisting unemployment. 
By the second half of the year the new economic policy 
Enounced in mid-August had restored a measure of public 
c°nfidence, and there was an abatement in demands for liquidity. 
Moreover, with inflationary expectations reduced, the public 
l^gan to move surplus cash balances into market instruments 
lri order to capture high yields while they were available. 
Furthermore, Federal Reserve policy recognized that the very 
t aPid growth rates in the early months of the year could not long 
Persist without harmful inflationary consequences. 
Reserves 
b egan to be supplied less generously in the spring, and short-term 
mtcrest rates began to rise; but because of lags in response by the 
Public, most of the effect on M 1 growth did not show up until later 
i n the year. 
I hope these comments are useful to you. 
Sincerely yours, 
/ i^H 
.. ^ 
Arthur F. Burns 
