Minutes for March 24, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
fche minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
elow. if you were present at the meeting, your 
initial s will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
0 n ly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1153 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 24, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
a t 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott. Technical Ass istant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Eckert, Bernard, Fry, Keir, and Kelty of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Wood, Bryant, Gekker, Gemmill, 
Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Axilrod commented on the money and 
aPital markets, discussed recent and prospective bank reserve utiliza-
tion 
j 
l> and analyzed trends in key short-term interest rates. Mr. Gemmill 
the 
n summarized foreign exchange market conditions and developments in 

1154 
3/24/67 
-12-
the Euro-dollar market. Copies of the several tables and charts dis-
tributed in connection with today's review have been placed in the 
Board's files. 
After discussion based on the foregoing presentations, all 
members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Solomon, and 
Partee withdrew from the meeting, as did Mr. Cardon and Miss McWhirter, 
and the following entered the room: 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Cloth, Attorney, Legal Division 
Messrs. Bennett, Analyst, and Ring, Senior Technical Assistant, 
Division of Bank Operations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
S e r v e Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Mi 
nneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco on March 23, 1967, 
of t-u 
ne rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
w°uld be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after „ 
consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able . 
co the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
itidi 
cated. 
Item No 
tt 
Spr.er t o Safe Deposit Bank and Trust Company, 
H s h ^ ^ ^ 6 ^ 5 Massachusetts, approving the estab-
ment of an in-town branch. 

11.56 
3/24/67 
-4-
Item No, 
Letter to Trade Bank and Trust Company, New 
2 
York, New York, approving the establishment 
o f a branch in Great Neck Plaza, Nassau 
County. 
^tter to Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
3 
ennsylvania, approving the establishment 
o f a branch at 5801 Ridge Avenue. 
Letter to Commercial and Farmers Bank, 
4 
^Hicott City, Maryland, approving the 
establishment of a branch at 85 Main 
r e e t in connection with the relocation of 
t h e bank's main office. 
Estimating amount of lost currency (Items 5-6). The question 
°f developing a procedure for estimating the amount of irretrievably 
lost Federal Reserve notes issued since 1928 (small-size currency) had 
been referred by the Board to the Conference of Presidents for study, 
With 
a View to the possibility of seeking legislative authority to make 
a n aPpropriate adjustment in note liabilities and related gold reserve 
recluirements. The Subcommittee on Currency and Coin, which was the 
°mmittee of the Presidents' Conference most recently having the problem 
nder consideration, had concluded that it was unable to suggest a fea-
e and reliable method for developing an estimate that would support 
si8nificant reduction in note liabilities at this time. The Subcom-
mitte 
e recommended that it be relieved of further responsibility in 
Section with the assignment, recognizing, however, that changed 
c°ndit-f 
•-ions might make it worthwhile to reconsider the question at some 

11.56 
3/24/67 
-4-
future date. The Conference of Presidents at its meeting on March 6, 
1967, concurred in this recommendation. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 22, 
1967, from the Division of Bank Operations describing the various 
aPproaches considered during study of the problem by the Presidents' 
Conference, suggesting certain possible alternative courses of action, 
and recommending, for reasons stated, (1) that further study be held in 
abeyance pending a Treasury decision on the possibility of a new series 
o f currency that would lead to the retirement of the present series, 
and ( 2) 
that an attempt be made to obtain from the Department of Defense 
a n y Mailable information concerning currency charged off by the Depart-
Itlent because of known losses during World War II. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Chairman 
o f the Conference of Presidents that would express agreement to suspend 
for the time being further attempts to make a comprehensive estimate of 
th 
ie amount of Federal Reserve notes of the current series irretrievably 
lost 
A 1 
• Also attached was a draft of letter to the Secretary of Defense 
tha 
would outline the problem and request guidance as to the appropriate 
Point c 
or contact for discussion of currency losses during World War II. 
The 
e letter would point out that there had been a sharp rise in currency 
circulation during the five-year period June 30, 1940, to June 30, 
I945 
* and that it seemed reasonable to assume that some part of this 
in 
Crease was attributable to currency losses. 

6 
3/24/67 
-12-
In response to a question by Governor Brimmer, Mr. Farrell said 
that the $10 billion figure cited as suggesting the part of the war-time 
mcrease in currency that may have been irretrievably lost reflected an 
estimate made by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. If accurate, it 
tteant that o f t h e approximately $20 billion increase in the five-year 
Period, probably half was attributable to hoarding or loss or destruc-
tion. He added that this pointed up one of the main problems that had 
c°nfronted the Presidents' Conference Subcommittee. It was possible 
trough sampling or other means to estimate the amount of noncirculating 
currency, but no method had been discovered by which to determine how 
much of the noncirculating currency was actually lost, destroyed, or 
bei-ng hoarded. 
Mr. Farrell said it had occurred to him that the Department of 
defense might have maintained records of currency charged off by the 
ePartment as lost during the war, particularly as a result of ship 
J-ngs. if such information was available, it would afford a basis 
P°n w^ich some part of the noncirculating currency might be charged off. 
Consideration was then given to a suggestion by Governor Brimmer 
that i t-
•LL might be preferable to initiate inquiries at the Defense Depart-
ment 
° n an informal basis at staff level, but it was brought out that 
a 
i.. 
cer to the Secretary of Defense would presumably be referred within 
department in such manner as to lead to expeditious contact with 
QOwledgeable persons. 

11 
c 
3/24/67 
-6-
Governor Robertson commented that another possibility would be 
to start with the Treasury rather than the Defense Department. It 
seemed logical to him that the Treasury would have been called upon 
to give credit for any lost currency and would have a record of claims. 
Mr. Farrell then explained at some length the procedures fol-
lowed by the Treasury Department in replacing lost or destroyed currency, 
H e also noted that a first approach to writing off some of the small-
size Treasury currency was being made under the bill prepared by the 
Treasury that was now pending before the Congressional Banking and 
Currency Committees. This bill would authorize the Secretary of the 
Tr easury to write off those outstanding silver certificates that he 
j 
ermined had been lost or destroyed or held in collections and would 
n e V e r b e presented for redemption. Previously, under the Old Series 
pi 
r r e n cy Adjustment Act of 1961, the Secretary of the Treasury was 
authorized to write off old, large-size currency which in his judgment 
W a s destroyed or irretrievably lost. 
Governor Robertson then inquired why Mr. Farrell wished to 
P U r S u e the matter with the Defense Department at this time if the 
DivjSl-
J-on of Bank Operations was concurrently recommending that further 
of the problem be held in abeyance pending a Treasury decision 
possibility of a new series of currency. 
Mr. Farrell responded that the hope of help from the Defense 
Pa£tment would diminish with the passage of time because of the 

11.59 
3/24/67 
-7-
retirement of persons who had first-hand knowledge of war-time proce-
dures and because of the increasing probability of destruction of old 
records. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he was reluctant to drop the 
Project on which the Conference Subcommittee had been engaged. He felt 
that an imaginative approach might develop a general scheme and sub-
schemes that would serve as a basis for estimating how much of the 
noncirculating currency was irretrievably lost. 
Governor Maisel suggested that if the Treasury would realize a 
substantial benefit from a determination that a certain amount could be 
charged off, that might make a difference in the attitude of the Treasury 
toward the question of currency reform. Mr. Farrell agreed that if it 
Were determined that a certain amount of currency was lost, that amount 
Presumably would be credited to the Treasury and would represent a profit 
to the extent that the currency was not subsequently turned in. Governor 
^rimmer said that if it could be demonstrated that some volume of cur-
r e n cy was in fact lost, he assumed everyone would be in favor of charging 
f-L 
e amount off. Governor Mitchell commented that it would appear diffi-
Cult to demonstrate that the currency had been irretrievably lost; how-
e V e r, it might be possible to demonstrate that it was out of circulation. 
After further discussion, Chairman Martin remarked that it would 
aPPear to do no harm to send the proposed letter to the Secretary of 
Def 
e n se, in a form reflecting certain changes that had been suggested 

1160 
3/24/67 
-8-
during today's discussion. There was general agreement. Accordingly, 
unanimous approval was given to letters to the Chairman of the Presi-
dents' Conference and to the Secretary of Defense in the form attached 
a s Jtems 5 and 6. 
Messrs. Farrell, Hexter, Partee, Daniels, Egertson, Cloth, 
Bennett, and Ring then withdrew from the meeting. 
Consultants at Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland (Item No. 7). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated March 22, 1967, from the 
division of Personnel Administration relating to the plan of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland to continue to retain the services of Martin 
Morrison in connection with the new Cincinnati Branch building and of 
^aird Landis for the purpose of training a successor to write for Pres-
ident Hickman and to assist with the editing of releases. Arrangements 
retain Messrs. Morrison and Landis as consultants past the normal 
retirement age of 65 had been in effect since October 1965 for Mr. 
^°^rison and January 1966 for Mr. Landis, and had been reviewed at six-
month intervals. 
In commenting on the situation, Mr. Johnson noted that Mr. 
Mr» 
rison had been retained to assist on a building project that was 
in process. Mr. Landis, however, had been retained for the more 
Of ] 
••-ess short-term purpose of training a replacement. That objective 
n n 1 
n°t yet been accomplished, possibly because of a job design problem 
may have caused two potential replacements to resign from the 
Bank's employ. 

1161 
3/24/67 
-12-
Governor Brimmer said that on looking into the situation he 
w a s disappointed to discover that the duties being performed by Mr. 
Landis on a full-time basis included not only writing and editorial 
assignments, but a public information function as well. It seemed to 
him that the latter function should be carried on by personnel on 
regular job status. So far as Mr. Morrison was concerned, he would 
have no question since the Bank and its Board of Directors appeared to 
^eel that his services were needed in connection with the Cincinnati 
Branch building project. 
Governor Daane agreed that the retention of Mr. Morrison was 
justified but added he could see less reason for continuation of the 
arrangement with Mr. Landis. 
Governor Robertson, on the other hand, noted that one of Mr. 
^ndis's primary duties apparently was to write for President Hickman, 
who evidently felt that Mr. Landis possessed a talent not available 
elsewhere in the Bank. He (Governor Robertson) would not be inclined 
to H 
deny those services to President Hickman. 
After further discussion, Mr. Johnson suggested expressing to 
th 
6 Reserve Bank the view that it would seem desirable if Mr. Landis 
replaced by a permanent employee by December 31, 1967, which would 
aPproximately two years after his retirement. The Board could also 
Su§gest that the need for Mr. Morrison's services be reviewed again in 
Member 1967. 

11 
3/24/67 
-12-
Unanimous approval was given to that approach. A copy of the 
letter subsequently sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
Requests for Board members' speeches. Mr. Molony inquired as 
to the Board's views with respect to compliance with requests for large 
quantities of Board members' speeches. He indicated that after the 
Initial distribution of such speeches to special mailing lists, the 
Press, and the Federal Reserve Banks there was generally a supply of 
ab°ut 250 copies on hand from which to meet subsequent requests. In 
the past the practice had been to furnish a limited number of copies 
uPon request, indicating that the recipient was at liberty to reproduce 
material without limitation. On recent occasions, however, parties 
bad requested up to a thousand copies. The question was whether the 
Board or the person or organization making the request should bear the 
burden of cost, effort, and time involved in reproducing the desired 
Serial. 
Board members expressed the view that the expense to the Board 
of reproduction would seem small measured in terms of public relations 
benefit. They pointed out that it had been the practice of the Board 
to 
make available quite freely various materials that could be used to 
advantage for educational purposes, and the speeches would appear to 
f a l 1 into that general category. The identity of the requesting party 
^ght be a factor, however. If the copies were requested for what 
aPpeared to be a legitimate use, they would favor complying. 

12 
3/24/67 
-12-
Governor Mitchell referred to the practice whereby the Monthly 
Review of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago was distributed in bulk 
shipments to commercial banks who in turn forwarded the publication 
to addressees on their own mailing lists. He believed this to be 
aPPropriate, even though the banks were using the publication as a 
Promotional device to serve their own interests. 
Chairman Martin noted that there were possibly some dangers 
implicit in widespread distribution of speeches and similar documents, 
Particularly where the recipients in turn disseminated such material 
for sales promotion purposes. He also suggested that the Board should 
careful not to get into the position of trying to sell a particular 
Policy it was following. What appeared correct today could well be 
Wr°ng in three months. 
Governor Brimmer said that this discussion brought to mind the 
need to consider the over-all matter of Board publications. He would 
ho 
Pe thought could be given to that general subject in the light of 
Certain questions with which he had been confronted. 
Following further discussion, it was agreed that requests for 
to 1,000 copies of speeches would ordinarily be honored, but that 
Quests for larger quantities would be referred to the Board for con-
juration. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Sherman then withdrew from 
the meeting. 

1164 
3/24/67 
-12-
Editorlal Committee. Unanimous approval was given to the 
recommendation of the Board's Editorial Committee that Albert R. Koch, 
Deputy Director, Division of Research and Statistics, be named to the 
Committee as successor to Ralph A. Young. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On March 23, 1967, 
Governor Shepardson approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (copy attached as 
jj^jfl No. 8) approving the designation of Austin W. Suits as special 
assistant examiner. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
increases 
Linda Kay Goukler, Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, from 
*S936 to $5,331 per annum, with a change in title to Senior Records 
Clerk, effective April 2, 1967. 
Mary William Wahle, Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, from 
* >256 to $5,683 per annum, with a change in title to Senior Records 
Clerk, effective April 2, 1967. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (copy attached 
j£em No. 9) regarding arrangements whereby Robert 0. Geise, an assis-
examiner for the Bank, would be assigned to the Board's Division 
Examinations for a period of approximately two months beginning 
A p r il 17, 1967. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
°ard's staff: 
A Ointments 
ba
 
Judy G. Brooks as Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, with 
S l c annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective the date of 
ntrance upon duty. 

1165 
3/24/67 
-12-
A££ointments (continued) 
Diann Roylette Scales as Clerk, Division of International Finance, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Lucinda Jayne Stilwell as Clerk, Division of International Finance, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,925, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Robert C. Holt as Programmer, Division of Data Processing, with 
b a s i c annual salary at the rate of $9,221, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Robert M. Philbrook as Applications Analyst, Division of Data 
rocessing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $15,106, effec-
lve the date of entrance upon duty. 
•Hilary increases 
Christian A. Newman, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
trom $10,166 to $10,927 per annum, effective March 26, 1967. 
o f
 
F r ank J. Miller, Electronic Accounting Machine Supervisor, Division 
I967ata P r o c e s s i n8> f r o m $ 5> 8 6 7 t o $6,451 per annum, effective April 9, 
^ansfers 
Doris I. Barker, from the position of Secretary in the Division 
Personnel Administration to the position of Secretary in the Legal 
^ision, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of $5,507, 
tfective March 26, 1967. 
Anniece Laurie, from the position of Clerk-Typist in the Division 
Personnel Administration to the position of Clerk-Typist in the Divi-
°n of International Finance, with no change in basic annual salary at 
n e rate of $4,413, effective March 26 

1 170 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R 5 
Item No. 5 
3/24/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 24, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Safe Deposit Bank and 
Trust Company, 
Springfield, Massachusetts. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Sy stem approves the establishment by Safe Deposit Bank 
and Trust Company, Springfield, Massachusetts, of a branch 
on the east side of Main Street between Congress Street 
and Interstate Highway No. 291, Springfield, Massachusetts, 
provided the branch is established within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly \ours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 170 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
3/24/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A T D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 24, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Trade Bank and Trust Company, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Trade Bank and 
Trust Company, New York, New York, of a branch at 9 
Park Place, Great Neck Plaza, Nassau County, New York, 
provided the branch is established within six months 
from the date of this letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1168 
B D A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
3/24/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 24, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, of a branch at 5801 Ridge 
Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

•sssgsfc-. 
1 170 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
3/24/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A O D H E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 24, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Commercial arid Farmers Bank, 
Ellicott City, Maryland. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Commercial and 
Farmers Bank, Ellicott City, Maryland, of a branch at 
85 Main Street, Ellicott City, Maryland, in connection 
with the relocation of the bank's main office from that 
location to the intersection of Rogers Avenue and 
U. S. Route 40, Ellicott City, Maryland, provided the 
branch is established within six months from the date 
of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1 170 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
3/24/67 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q H H E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 24, 1967. 
**r. Eliot J. Swan, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
san Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
This refers to the approval by the Conference of Presidents 
held on March 6, 1967, of the recommendation by the Subcommittee on 
Currency and Coin that it be relieved, at least for the time being, of 
further responsibility for estimating the amount of currency irretriev-
ably lost because, under existing conditions, it was unable to suggest 
a reliable method for developing such an estimate. The Board notes 
that in approving this recommendation the Conference recognized that 
Ranged conditions may make it worthwhile to reconsider the question 
a t some future date, particularly if there should be some change in 
the currency that would lead to retirement of present-style notes. 
The Board agrees that under existing conditions it would be 
desirable to suspend further attempts to make a comprehensive estimate 
of the amount of Federal Reserve notes of the current series that have 
keen irretrievably lost, at least until more is known about the 
Possibility of a new series of currency that would lead to the retire-
ment of the present series. 
In the meantime, however, the Board has decided to ask the 
apartment of Defense whether there are any records that would indicate 
the amount of currency lost by the Department during World War II. 
The Board believes that it would be desirable to have any available 
^formation of this kind, even if the information is not immediately 
Used to request Congressional authority to reduce System liabilities 
f°r Federal Reserve notes. A copy of a letter that has been sent to 
the Department of Defense for this purpose is enclosed. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
^closure 
C c : Mr. D. V. Masten, Secretary, Conference of Presidents 

1171 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m 
N q 
g 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/24/67 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 24, 1967 
The Honorable Robert S. McNamara, 
Secretary of Defense, 
Washington, D. C. 
20301 
°ear Bob: 
My purpose in writing you at this time is to ask whether 
there would be in the Department of Defense any records that would 
1ndicate currency irretrievably lost by the Department during 
World War II. 
As you may know, the Federal Reserve Banks are required 
to maintain a gold reserve of 25 per cent against all Federal 
Reserve notes shown to be outstanding. Some of this gold could be 
freed for other purposes if there were any reliable way of deter-
mining how much of the present amount of notes outstanding is 
represented by currency irretrievably lost or destroyed. 
It would be helpful if we could have your guidance as 
t o the appropriate person or persons in the Department of Defense 
with whom our staff might discuss this matter. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Bill 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

1172 
B D A R D OF 
B D V E R N D R S 
I t e m 
No# 7 
• F THE 
3/24/67* 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 14, 1967 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 10, 1967, 
reviewing the services of Martin Morrison and Laird Landis as 
consultants to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. It is 
noted that the Bank has benefited from their work to date, but 
the Board believes that it would be preferable to obtain a 
Permanent employee to replace Mr. Landis by December 31, 1967, 
approximately two years after his retirement. 
In view of the current situation with regard to the 
new Cincinnati Branch building, it would seem appropriate to 
continue Mr. Morrison's services. However, we would appreciate 
your reviewing again, in December, the need for his services 
beyond that time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1173 
2' 
1/ 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 8 
3/24/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRRESPCNDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 23, 1967 
Mr. 0. 0. Wyrick, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Mr. Wyrick: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of March 20, 1967, the Board approves the 
designation of Austin W. Suits as a special assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 170 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
3/24/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 24, 1967 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
In accordance with the tentative arrangements made with 
ice President Irwin L. Jennings by the Board's Division of Exam-
inations, it is understood that your Bank will make available for 
Period of approximately two months, beginning April 17, 1967 
ne services of Mr. Robert 0. Geise, an Assistant Examiner for' 
y ur Bank. While in Washington, Mr. Geise will be assigned to 
e foreign banking section of the Board's Division of Examina-
ons and will be designated as a Federal Reserve Examiner. 
Fr* < 
Z t i S u n d e r s t o o d that the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
rancisco will absorb all of Mr. Geise's salary and travel 
*Penses in connection with the assignment. 
your * 
T h e B o a r d o f Governors appreciates the cooperation of 
Bank in making the services of Mr. Geise available during 
® period. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
