MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 9, 1970 

JL J. 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Thursday, April 9, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
0, Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Schober, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions. 

1114 
4/9/70 
-12-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on April 2, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on April 3, and by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on April 6, 1970, of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Stock market and margin credit developments. Mr. Stoffels of 
the Division of Research and Statistics presented the first of a series 
°f proposed regular monthly reviews of stock market and margin credit 
developments, his comments being based principally on a memorandum 
dated April 7, 1970, from the Capital Markets Section, a copy of which 
has been placed on the Board's files. 
' 
v 
r * 
Truth in lending report. Governor Robertson recalled that a 
request from a lawyer for a copy of the report to the Board by the 
Federal Trade Commission regarding its enforcement activities under the 
Truth in Lending Act had been referred to the Commission. The Commis-
sion was willing to release the report, but only with the consent of 
the Board. 
It was understood that the Federal Trade Commission would be 
advised that the Board had no objection to the release of the report. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation Z. In a memorandum dated 
April 6, 1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
publication in the Federal Register for comment of a proposed amendment 

J 1:15 
4/9/70 
-3-
to section 226.4(c) of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, that would 
incorporate into the body of the Regulation a ruling on the proper 
treatment of late payment charges. This matter had been the subject 
°f an interpretation issued in April 1969 which specified that a charge 
for late payment of a 30-day account was a finance charge under certain 
circumstances. Question had been raised by the American Petroleum 
Institute as to the validity of the interpretation in connection with 
"class action" suits brought against member companies, and the Institute 
had asked the Board to retract or modify its interpretation. 
Mr. Frederic Solomon reviewed the background against which the 
interpretation had been issued and commented upon several alternative 
w^ys in which the Board might approach the problem. The staff was of 
the view that the interpretation expressed a valid policy position to 
which the Board should adhere. However, since the position was expressed 
in an interpretation rather than the Regulation, it might be given less 
weight by the courts. The purpose of the recommended procedure would 
be to clarify the issue rather than to supersede the interpretation. 
Following staff responses to a number of questions on the 
issues involved, admittedly rather complex, unanimous approval was 
given to the publication of the proposed amendment in the Federal 
Regi ster for comment. A copy of the notice submitted to the Register 
is attached as Item No. 1, along with a copy of the press release issued. 

1 1 1 6 
4/9/70 
-12-
Nassau branches. Letters to First National Bank in St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri; The First National Bank of Fort Worth, Forth Worth, 
Texas; and Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, Virginia, granting permission 
for the establishment of branches in Nassau, Bahamas, were approved, 
Governor Robertson dissenting and Governor Brimmer abstaining. Copies 
°f the letters are attached as Items 2-4. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that a staff analysis of Nassau 
branch operations and supervisory considerations would be available 
shortly. 
Wachovia International Investment Corporation. In a memorandum 
dated March 25, 1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recom-
mended that the Board deny the request of Wachovia International Invest-
ment Corporation, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, for permission (1) to 
continue to hold shares of Consumers Oil Company, Ltd., Calgary, Alberta, 
Canada, and (2) to acquire shares of Allied Roxana Minerals, Ltd., also 
°f Calgary, on the grounds that the two Canadian oil companies were 
engaged in activities in Alaska that constituted a general business of 
buying or selling goods in the United States. 
In a memorandum dated April 3, 1970, the Legal Division also 
recommended denial of the request, but on the grounds that the corpora-
tions would be transacting business in the United States. In the view 
°f the Division it was not clear that the activities in question amounted 
to the general business of selling goods. The Division recommended that 
the proposed letter to Wachovia be revised accordingly. 

J117 
4/9/70 
-5-
Mr. Frederic Solomon indicated that the Legal Division's 
proposal was acceptable. 
Comments were then directed to the manner in which the Board's 
position should be conveyed to Wachovia. It was noted that the corpo-
ration's investments in the Canadian companies had come to light during 
a recent examination, at which time the examiner had pointed out to 
Wachovia that the consent of the Board should have been obtained before 
the investments were made. It was subsequent to the examination that 
the applications were submitted to the Board. 
Governor Brimmer expressed concern at the repeated failure of 
Wachovia to obtain prior Board approval for investments. He suggested 
that the proposed letter emphasize the responsibility of management to 
conduct its business within the prescribed regulatory framework. 
It was understood that the proposed letter would be expanded 
along the lines suggested, and also that the Chairman of Wachovia Inter-
national Investment Corporation would be contacted by an official of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter in the form 
attached as Item No. 5. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Southern Bank and Trust 
Company, Greenville, South Carolina, and State Bank, York, South 
Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion reading as follows: 

3 1 1 8 
4/9/70 
-6-
There appears to be a small amount of competition 
existing between State Bank, York, and Southern Bank and 
Trust Company, Greenville. Overall the effect of the 
proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Peoples National Bank of New Jersey, Westmont, Haddon Town-
ship, New Jersey, and Broadway National Bank & Trust Company, Pitman, 
New Jersey, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is a small amount of existing competition 
between Peoples National Bank of New Jersey, Westmont, 
and Broadway National Bank & Trust Company, Pitman, and 
potential for increased competition is limited. The 
overall competitive effect of the proposed merger would 
be slightly adverse. 
American Bancorporation and Jacob Schmidt Company. Drafts of 
orders and a statement reflecting the Board's approval on April 2, 1970, 
of the applications of American Bancorporation, Inc., and Jacob Schmidt 
Company, both of St. Paul, Minnesota, to become bank holding companies 
through direct and indirect acquisition of shares of American National 
Bank and Trust Company and Commercial State Bank, both of St. Paul, 
had been distributed. 
The issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 6. 
Bank of New Orleans. A memorandum dated April 1, 1970, from 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Legal Division had 
been distributed regarding the application of The Bank of New Orleans 

J 1 1.9 
4/9/70 
-7-
and Trust Company, New Orleans, Louisiana, to merge with The Bank and 
Trust Company of Greater New Orleans, a newly-organized bank not yet 
in operation, and the application of the latter for membership in the 
Federal 
Reserve System. The proposed merger was one step in a plan of 
corporate reorganization designed to bring into being a one-bank hold-
ing company. 
After some discussion of aspects of the "phantom bank" procedure, 
the merger and membership applications were approved unanimously, and 
the issuance of an order and statement was authorized. Copies of these 
documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 7, and a copy of the 
letter to The Bank and Trust Company of Greater New Orleans approving 
its application for membership is attached as Item No. 8. 
BancOhio Corporation. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated April 3, 1970, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of BancOhio 
Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of The Community Bank, 
Napoleon, Ohio. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
First Arkansas. First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation, Little 
Rock, 
Arkansas, had submitted an application to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of Arkansas First National 
Bank of Hot Springs, Hot Springs, Arkansas, which would be in addition 

j. 120 
4/9/70 
-8-
to those of one bank already held. If the Board approved the application, 
1 
applicant would become the first registered bank holding company in 
Arkansas. Subsequent to publication of the notice of receipt of the 
application, numerous letters had been received, with some parties 
requesting that a hearing be held. 
In a memorandum dated April 8, 1970, Mr. Leavitt discussed the 
arguments advanced in opposition to the application and expressed the 
view that little of a substantive nature would be gained from a hearing. 
However, in view of the deep feelings that had been aroused, he raised 
the question whether the Board would wish to schedule an oral presentation 
It was agreed that in the circumstances an oral presentation 
should be held. A copy of the order subsequently issued is attached as 
I_tem No. 9. 
State legislation. Unanimous approval was given to letters to 
the Bureau of the Budget regarding proposals submitted by the Small 
Business Administration and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
for consideration by the Committee of State Officials on Suggested State 
Legis 
lation of the Council of State Governments. Copies are attached 
a s Items 10 and 11. 
The SBA had proposed the development of a model statute so that 
the individual State "may more affirmatively encourage the formation 
and expansion of SBIC's through various statutory incentives." The 
FDIC had suggested State legislation that would in its opinion facilitate 
the prompt payment of insured deposits in closed State banks. 

1 1 2 1 
4/9/70 
-12-
Regulation T amendment. Pursuant to the understanding at the 
meeting on October 13, 1969, a proposed amendment to Regulation T, 
Credit by Brokers and Dealers, that would divide and allocate lending 
activities of certain insurance companies (which are also broker-dealers) 
along functional lines for the purpose of margin requirements had been 
Published in the Federal Register for comment. 
In a memorandum dated April 7, 1970, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation suggested that certain technical changes be made in the 
Proposal in response to comments received, and recommended that the 
revised amendment be adopted. 
Unanimous approval was given to the revised amendment, effective 
May 15, 1970. A copy is attached as Item No. 12. 
Regulation A amendment. Regulation A, Advances and Discounts by 
Federal Reserve Banks, had required that paper offered by member banks 
under section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act for discount or as collateral 
for advances by the Reserve Banks at the regular discount rate be nego-
tiable. In a memorandum dated April 1, 1970, Mr. Hackley recommended 
that the Regulation be amended to eliminate that requirement. 
Mr. Hackley pointed out that the matter had been considered in 
some detail by the Secretariat in a 1966 memorandum addressed to the 
Steering Committee for the Fundamental Reappraisal of the Discount 
Mechanism. At the request of Governor Mitchell, that memorandum was 
considered by the Conference of Presidents, which concurred in the 

1 1 2 2 
4/9/70 
-12-
recommendation of the Committee on Discounts and Credits that the 
proposed amendment be adopted unless it was deemed advisable to make 
the change in conjunction with other broader regulatory changes. Further 
action on the proposal was deferred in view of uncertainties as to the 
t- • 
timing of other changes. The question was again considered by the 
Presidents in March 1970, and the Conference indicated its willingness 
to eliminate the requirement of negotiability of customer notes as a 
condition of eligibility under Regulation A. However, one President 
agreed with the Conference action only if it would not become a mandatory 
requirement for a Reserve Bank to accept non-negotiable notes. The pro-
Posed amendment would make that clear. 
Mr. Hackley suggested that publication in the Federal Register 
for comment be dispensed with in this instance, and after discussion it 
was agreed that such publication was unnecessary. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that copies of the amendment be 
transmitted to the Chairmen of the Banking and Currency Committees, and 
it was understood that that would be done. 
The amendment to Regulation A was then approved, effective 
April 16, 1970. A copy of the amendment is attached as Item No. 13. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, and 
Hackley then withdrew from the meeting and Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, 
Division of Personnel Administration, entered the room. 

11Z3 
4/9/70 
-11-
Publication of staff papers. Governor Maisel suggested that 
the staff be authorized to arrange for the publication of certain staff 
papers of superior quality that had been prepared in connection with the 
work of the Committee on the Directive (created by the Federal Open 
Market Committee). It was his thought that the relationship of the 
papers to the study that had been made by the Committee on the Directive 
would not necessarily have to be disclosed. 
Question was raised whether it would be feasible to publish the 
Papers without disclosing the circumstances in which they had been pro-
duced. Question also was raised regarding the timing of publication of 
the papers, it being suggested that readers might relate them to the 
directives contained in the Open Market Committee policy record entries 
currently being released. In addition, the interest of the Open Market 
Committee in the papers was noted. 
In view of these questions, it was agreed that a memorandum on 
the question of publication of the staff papers would be prepared for 
consideration by the Federal Open Market Committee. 
Guide to conduct. Chairman Burns referred to his memorandum of 
April 7, 1970, in which he had pointed out that the Board's Rules 
Regarding Employee Responsibilities and Conduct, covering such matters 
as the acceptance of gifts and entertainment, outside activities, 
speculative transactions, and financial interests, apparently did not 
literally apply to members of the Board. Moreover, it seemed to him 

1 1 2 4 
4/9/70 
-12-
that a need existed for a guide to conduct for senior Federal Reserve 
officials that would go somewhat beyond the matters covered by existing 
rules and deal with questions such as the content and circumstances of 
public speeches, relations with the press, maintaining the confiden-
tiality of inside information, and avoiding financial or other transactions 
that could give rise to an appearance of conflict of interest. He pro-
posed to designate a small committee consisting of two Board members 
and two Reserve. Bank Presidents to consider and draw up a general guide 
to conduct that might voluntarily be accepted. 
1 • ' 
1 • 
•f- 
i • 
• • 
In discussion, certain areas were suggested for exploration by 
such a committee in addition to those listed in the Chairman's memorandum, 
and the Chairman expressed the view that the committee should be left 
free to study any phases of activity that it deemed worthy of consideration. 
Discussion then turned to procedural aspects of the designation 
of such a committee, and there was agreement with a suggestion that the 
proposal be discussed with the Presidents informally at the time of the 
next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

5 3 
i 
• 
•• 
' 
WO ' 
•'•<•• • -' • 
'. I 
. . ^ I I 
'• 
• 
, . "\ ' 
i: . 
^ ( i i w 
Item No. 1 
4/9/70 
For immediate release 
April 13, 1970. 
Hie Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued for comment a proposal to include specifically in its Truth in 
lending Regulation Z the manner in which creditors should treat the 
disclosure of charges that are labeled late payment and imposed on 
so-called "30-day accounts" and open end accounts. 
The Board fixed May 2.2 as the deadline for the receipt of 
comments. 
Regulation Z states that "a late payment, delinquency, default, 
reinstatement or other such charge is not a finance charge if imposed for 
actual unanticipated late payment, delinquency, default, or other such 
occurrence." In an interpretation issued on April 22, 1969, the Board 
explained that a late payment or other similar charge is considered a 
finance charge--and thus the transaction is subject to the disclosure 
provisions of Truth in Lending--when, in the ordinary course of business, 
the customer is permitted to continue using his credit account after the 
late payment or other charge is imposed. 
This remains the position of the Board. However, the Board 
is now considering incorporating into the Regulation itself the substance 
of that interpretation, clarified and refined as it may be in the light 
of comments received. The Board said it would welcome comments on all 
aspects of such late payment charges as they relate to Truth in Lending 
In order that it may determine whether any change should be made in the 
future treatment of these or similar charges. 
A copy of the proposal is attached. 
-0-
1 n 

1 1 2 < 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(12 CFR Part 226) 
(Reg. Z) 
Late Payment, Delinquency, Default, And Reinstatement Charges 
Pursuant to the authority contained in the Truth in Lending 
Act (15 U.S.C. 1601), the Board of Governors is considering amending 
§ 226.4(c) of Part 226 to read as follows: 
S 226.4 Determination of Finance Charge. 
* * * 
(c) Late payment, delinquency, default:, and reinstatement 
A late payment, delinquency, default, reinstatement, or other 
such charge is not a finance charge if imposed for actual unanticipated 
late payment, delinquency, default, or other such occurrence. However, 
where such charge is imposed on an account which is or may be debited 
from time to time for purchases or other obligations and, under its 
terms, payment in full or of a specified amount is required when billed, 
and in the ordinary course of business the obligor is permitted to 
continue to have purchases or other obligations debited to the account 
after the imposition of such charge, such charge is a finance charge 
instead of a late payment or other such charge, and the disclosures 
• •• 
• 
required under 6 2.26.7 shall be made. 
* 
* * 
The proposed amendment consists of the addition of a second 
sentence to existing S 2?.6»4{c). 
That sentence would incorporate into 
the Regulation itself the substance of an interpretation (8 226.401) 

1 1 2 7 
-2-
issued by the Board on April 22, 1969, which states the proper treatment 
of charges that are labeled late payment, delinquency, default and rein-
•statement, when imposed on an account which is or may be debited from 
time to time for purchases or other obligations. Such accounts might 
be either so-called 30-day accounts or op -n end credit accounts. The 
proposed amendment--like the interpretation--specifies the circumstances 
in which such charges are, in fact, considered finance charges requiring 
disclosures under g 226.7--open end credit accounts—specific disclosures. 
This notice is published pursuant to g 553(b) of Title 5, 
United States Code, and S 262.2(a) of the Rules of Procedure of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board and 
to assist the Board in determining whether any changes should be made in the 
future treatment of these or similar charges, interested persons are 
invited to submit relevant data, views, or arguments. Any such material 
should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not 
later than May 22, 1970. Such material will be made available for 
inspection and copying upon request, except as provided in 5 261.6(a) 
of the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 9, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A, Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1 1 2 8 
Item No. 
10 
4/9/70 • 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E B P Q N D F. N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 9, 1970 
First National Bank in St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to First National Bank in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Missouri, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international, business and 
not as a means of shifting 'loans or deposits from offices in the 
United Stales. It is also understood Lhat there is to be no contact 
with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract 
by another party. In view of the special character of this operation, 
the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing observa-
tion and review by the Board and after due notice may be withdrawn 
or modified. The foregoing permission is also granted on the con-
dition that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
will be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
Board and its accredited representatives. The Board should be 
promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods of 
operation, including changes in any contract under which services 
are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
lutsf;-
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE 5YSTE 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 

112< 
First National Bank in St, Louis -2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of -interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally sub-
ject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 213.7 
of Regulation M)„ 
Hie general purpose of these exemptions is to al-
low foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with 
foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and continues 
to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits 
by United States residents at foreign branches of United States banks 
unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary 
purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions out-
side the United States, 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for 
purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the bal-
ance of payments, the above consent is given with the understanding 
that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will 
be placed on resources obtained outside Lhe United SLaLes. Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now 
in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activi-
ties of your bank and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1 1 3 0 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 10 
4/9/70 • 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 9, 1970 
The First National Bank 
of Fort Worth, 
1 Burnett Plaza, 
Fort Worth, Texas. 76102 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to The First National Bank of Fort Worth, 
Fort Worth, Texas, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. In view of the special character of 
this operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to 
continuing observation and review by the Board and after due 
notice may be withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission 
is also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and 
will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened 
for business on or before April 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

The First National Bank 
of Fort Worth 
-2-
1.131 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
» 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Suc-
tion 213.7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of: 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form o£ allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

H o i s 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r THE 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/9/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
D T F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 9, 1970 
Virginia National Bank, 
1 Co mnie r c i a 1 Place, 
Norfolk, Virginia.' 23510 
1 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, Virginia, pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to estab-
lish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such 
branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and not 
as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United 
States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with 
the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and 
bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by 
another party. In view of the unusual character of this operation, 
the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing special 
observation and review by the Board and after due notice may be with-
drawn or modified. The foregoing permission is also granted on the 
condition that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
will be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be 
promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods of 
operation, including changes in any contract under which services 
are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 

112< 
Virginia National Bank 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally sub-
ject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 213.7 
of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions is to allow 
foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with foreign 
banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and continues to be 
the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by 
United States residents at foreign branches of United States banks 
unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary 
purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum re-
liance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United States, 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending 
and investment activities of your bank and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

J 1 3 4 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
a F T H t : 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/9/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R L ' H l i 
o r r i C I A L 
C O H R F . S P U N D t N C E 
T O 
T H E U CJ A U O 
April 15, 1970 
Mr. John F. Watlington, Jr., 
Chn arman o f the Board, 
Wachovia International Investment Corporation, 
P. 0. Box 3099, 
Wins ton- Sa 1 em, Nor th Ca r. o 1 ina. 2 7102 
Dear Mr. Wat lington: 
This is in response to your letters of January 22, 1970. 
requesting permission to continue to hold the stock of Consumers 
Oil Company, Ltd. ("Consumers"), Calgary, Alberta, Canada, to con-
tinue to hold arid to acquire additional shares of Allied Roxana 
Minerals, Ltd. ("Allied"), Calgary, Alberta, Canada, and by implica-
tion to acquire stock of Embassy Petroleums, Ltd. ("Embassy"), 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada, and/or a company uo be formed through the 
merger of Consumers, A D icd and FmVsry. 
The Board inv3err-/.'.'iids 
that: these requests resulted from information developed and dis-
euscions held during the course of the recent examination of your 
Corporation ("WIIC"). 
The following information, which was either submitted by 
you or developed in the course of the examination of WJ.IC, appears 
pertinent to these applications: 
1) 
Prior to August 25, 1969, Allied and Embassy signed an 
agreement with. Mobil Oil Corporation and Marathon Oil Company 
of Los Angeles wherein Allied and Embassy would earn, by 
drilling a test well, a 75 per cent interest in approximately 
35,000 acres of land in the Copper River Basin of Alaska; 
2.) 
Allied and Embassy have formed a wholly-owned United 
States corporation, Allied and Embassy Petroleum Corporation 
of Alaska, for the purpose of carrying out the Alaska opera-
tion ; 
3) 
An agreement: was concluded whereby Consolidated Oil and 
Gas Inc. of Denver, Colorado, agreed to provide the entire 
cost of the earning well; 
•>9 Of ('0' 
i i t i t . 
• • • 
* IM 
mm 
• . yv u >-•'. • • 

J 1 3 5 
Mr. John F. Wat ling t:on, Jr. 
-2-
4) Such, earning well was completed which, though a dry-
hole and since abandoned, fulfilled the requirements giving 
Allied and Embassy an interest in the land in Alaska; and 
5) In accordance with- the agreement of May 1, 1968, Con-
sumers assists in the general management and exploration 
activities of Allied and Embassy and is entitled to a 5 per 
cent "carried interest" in any projects of Allied and/or 
Embassy and, in addition, may increase such participation 
to as high as 20 per cent. 
On the basis of the foregoing, on July 3, 1969, when WIl'C 
purchased the stock of Consumers, Consumers was at least a party to 
negotiations, which were reaching their conclusive stages, to enter 
into oil exploration and development in the State of Alaska, and on 
January 6, 1970, when WIIC purchased stock of Allied, Allied and 
Embassy, through a wholly-owned United States corporation, were 
participating in the drilling of a test well, completion of which 
subsequently gave Consumers, Allied, and Embassy continuing inter-
ests in lands in that State. 
Regulation K requires that acquisition of stock of com-
panies conducting any business in the United States have prior 
approval of the Board of Governors. It is noted that such approval 
was not obtained in this instance. The Board again desires to em-
phasize the necessity for WIIC to conduct its operations in con-
formance with the provisions of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act and Regulation K and will expect that, in the future, such pro-
cedures will be followed. 
Section 25(a) prohibits Edge Corporations from acquiring 
or holding shares in any company "engaged in the general business 
of buying or selling goods, wares, merchandise or commodities in 
the United States or transacting any business in the United States 
except such as in the judgment of the Board . . . may be incidental 
to its international or foreign business." The Board has concluded 
that the activities of Consumers, Allied, and Embassy in the United 
States constitute transacting business in the United States which 
is not incidental to these companies' international or foreign busi-
ness. Accordingly, the holding of shares in such companies is not 
permitted by Section 25(a). The Board therefore directs that the 
stock in these companies, acquired in violation of Section 211.8 of 
Regulation K, be disposed of within 90 days, and that WIIC immediately 
advise the Board, through the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, of 
all details of such disposition. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

112< 
Item No. 6 
4/9/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
AMERICAN BANCORPORATION, INC., 
St. Paul, Minnesota, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of not less than 80 per cent of the 
voting shares of (1) American National 
Bank and Trust Company, and (2) Commercial 
State Bank, both of St. Paul, Minnesota. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of American Bancorporation, Inc., 
St. Paul, Minnesota, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of (1) American 
National Bank and Trust Company, and (2) Commercial State Bank, 
both in St. Paul, Minnesota. 

J 1 3 7 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the 
Currency and to the Minnesota Commissioner of Banks, and requested 
their views and recommendations. The Comptroller offered no objection 
to approval of the application. 
The Commissioner stated that his 
office had no objection to approval of the application* 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 3, 1970 (35 Federal Register 4031), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time shall be extended by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 9, 1970. 
Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

I 
J 1 3 8 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
JACOB SCHMIDT COMPANY, 
' 
St. Paul, Minnesota, 
1 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of indirect control of not less than 80 
per cent of the voting shares of (1) 
American National Bank and Trust Company 
1 
and (2) Commercial State Bank, both of 
1 
St. Paul, Minnesota. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Jacob Schmidt Company, 
St. Paul, Minnesota, for the Board's prior approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of indirect 
control of not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of 
(1) American National Bank and Trust Company and (2) Commercial 
State Bank, both of St. Paul, Minnesota. 

3 1 3 9 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, he Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and to the Minnesota Commissioner of Banks, and requested their views 
and recommendations. The Comptroller offered no objection to approval 
of the application. 
The Commissioner stated that his office had no 
objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 3, 1970 (35 Federal Register 4032) pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views xri.th respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Boardfs 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall 
be extended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 
9, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
(1) AMERICAN BANCORPORATION, INC., AND 
(2) JACOB SCHMIDT COMPANY, BOTH IN ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACTION TO BECOME BANK HOLDING COMPANIES. 
STATEMENT 
American Bancorporation, Inc. ("American"), has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), for prior approval 
of action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of (1) American 
National Bank and Trust Company ("American National"), and (2) 
Commercial State Bank ("Commercial"), both in St. Paul, Minnesota. 
Jacob Schmidt Company, which owns close to 70 per cent of the voting 
shares of American National, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Act, for prior approval of action 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 54,25 per 
cent of American, which percentage represents the amount of voting 
shares of American that Jacob Schmidt Company would receive in an 
exchange of its holdings of voting shares of American National for 
voting shares of American, Each of these applications is the 
subject of a separate Board Order. However, since the applications 

1 1 4 1 
-4-
are interdependent and many of the facts and circumstances involved 
are common to both proposals, the applications have been considered 
together and this Statement contains the Board's findings and con-
clusions with respect to both. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
of receipt of the applications to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
to the Minnesota Commissioner of Banks and requested their views and 
recommendations. The Comptroller offered no objection to approval of 
the applications. The Commissioner stated that his office had no 
objection to approval of the applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 

-2-
31'iZ 
Competitive effect of the proposed transactions, - The 
10 largest banking organizations in Minnesota, of which the four 
largest are bank holding companies, control 61.6 per cent of the 
1/ 
total deposits in the State. 
After consummation of the proposed 
acquisitions, the subsidiary banks would constitute the fourth 
largest banking organization in the State and would control 2.2 per 
cent of total deposits there. 
American National, with deposits of $144 million, is the 
second largest bank in St. Paul and the fifth largest of 56 banks 
in its service area, which is described by the applicants to include 
the five-county Minneapolis-St„ Paul metropolitan area, which appears 
to be the relevant banking market and has an estimated population of 
1,750,000. American National holds 4.1 per cent of the total deposits 
originating in the area. 
Commercial, with deposits of $32 million, holds 2.4 per 
cent of the deposits in its service area, which applicants describe 
as the City of St. Paul and its suburbs, an area that has an esti-
mated population of 663,000 and lies wholly within the service area 
of American National. On the basis of deposits, Commercial is the 
fifth largest of 34 banks in its service area. 
The combined deposits of the two proposed subsidiaries 
represent 5.0 per cent of the total deposits in the St. Paul-
1/ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company 
acquisitions for which Board approvals have been issued to date. 

1 1 1 3 
-4-
Minneapolis banking market. In that market, First Bank System, Inc. 
and Northwest Bancorporation, the two largest banking organizations 
in the State on the basis of deposits, control in the aggregate 
71 per cent of the deposits. Consummation of the proposals herein 
would cause the proposed subsidiaries to become the fourth largest 
banking group in the area, but this group would be only slightly 
larger than the group that is currently the fourth largest. 
American National is located approximately six blocks from 
Commercial. According to the applicants, about 80 per cent of 
American National's deposits of individuals, partnerships and cor-
porations ("IPC") originate in the service area of Commercial, and 
all of Commercial's IPC deposits originate in the service area of 
American National. However, the two banks have been closely affiliated 
through common ownership since 1936 and applicants state that such 
affiliation will continue regardless of the Board's action with 
2/ 
respect to the present applications. The Adolf Bremer family 
owns 
over 72 per cent of the voting shares of American National and vir-
tually all of Commercial's stock. It appears that approval of the 
applications herein would merely place into a corporate structure 
a group relationship that already exists, that has existed for 
many years and is likely to continue. 
2/ This includes family members, family corporations and family trusts. 

11-14 
-5-
ii 
. 
» 
The data presented reflect that formation of the proposed 
• • Vr • 
holding companies would have no significant effect toon concentra-
tion of banking resources in the State nor in any re.evant service 
area; and no meaningful competition would be lessened. Disaffilia-
tion of these banks in the foreseeable future and the development of 
significant competition between them are regarded as unlikely. Also 
it appears unlikely that consummation of the proposed affiliations 
will have an adverse effect upon any of the banks competing in the 
relevant areas. 
On the record before it, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed acquisitions would not result in a 
monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
area, and would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create 
a monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in any section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
American was organized in October 1969 for the purpose of becoming 
a bank holding company. On the basis of its pro forma balance sheet, 
which shows assets and capital accounts of $16 million, its financial 
condition is regarded as satisfactory. American's management, which 
includes officers and directors of the subsidiary banks and of the 
Jacob Schmidt Company,is considered to be competent. Prospects for 
American depend upon those of its subsidiaries and, on this basis, 

1 . 1 4 5 
-6-
appear favorable. The financial condition and management of American 
National are satisfactory and its prospects are good. The financial 
condition of Commercial is sound. Under American's proposal, the 
management of Commercial would be strengthened. The bank's prospects 
are favorable. 
According to the applications, the Jacob Schmidt Company, 
which was originally known as the Jacob Schmidt Brewing Company and 
was engaged in the brewing business until 1954 when the principal 
assets including the corporate name were sold, invested the proceeds 
of the sale in marketable securities and additional stock of American 
National. The financial condition of Jacob Schmidt Company is sound, 
its management is satisfactory and its prospects are favorable. 
The banking factors are regarded as satisfactory and 
consistent with approval of both applications. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
St. Paul-Minneapolis metropolitan area is the dominant retail, 
industrial, and financial center for the upper midwest sector of 
the country. St, Paul is the second largest city in the State and 
its capital. 
The banking needs of the area appear to be adequately 
served at present. Considerations under the convenience and needs 
factors add no significant weight to approval of the applications, 
but are consistent therewith. 

1 1 4 6 
.7 -
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed acquisitions would be in the public interest and that 
the applications should be approved. 
April 
9, 1970. 

Item No 
4/9/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
..WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
THE BANK OF NEW ORLEANS AND TRUST COMPANY 
1 
for approval of merger with 
1 
The Bank and Trust Company of Greater Nei7 Orleans 1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by The Bank 
of Neu Orleans and Trust Company, New Orleans, Louisiana, a State 
member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior 
approval of the merger of that bank with The Bank and Trust Company 
of Greater New Orleans, New Orleans, Louisiana, which is to be a 
member of the Federal Reserve System, under the charter of the latter 
bank and the name of the former. As an incident to the merger, the 
seven branches of The Bank of New Orleans and Trust Company would 
become branches of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, 
in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, 

3 1 4 8 
-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 9, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Sherrill, 
/signed/ Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE BANK OF NEW ORLEANS AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY OF GREATER NEW ORLEANS 
STATEMENT 
The Bank of New Orleans and Trust Company, New Orleans, 
Louisiana ("Applicant"), with total deposits of $168 million,-^ has 
applied, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for 
the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank with The Bank 
and Trust Company of Greater New Orleans, New Orleans, Louisiana 
("Greater New Orleans Bank"), which is a newly organized bank not yet 
in operation. The banks x;ould merge under the name of Applicant and 
the charter of Greater New Orleans Bank which is to be a member of 
the Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, the seven 
branches of Applicant would become branches of the resulting bank. 
The proposed merger is one step in a plan of corporate 
reorganization whereby New Orleans Bancshares, Inc., New Orleans, 
Louisiana, would become a one-bank holding company. New Orleans 
Bancshares, Inc., presently owns all of the stock of Greater New 
Orleans Bank: upon the merger of Applicant with Greater Nex/ Orleans 
Bank, stock of New Orleans Bancshares, Inc., will be exchanged for 
stock of Applicant. 
1/ Figures are as of December 31, 1969. 

39 
-4-
The major purpose for the use of a merger transaction in 
Applicant's plan to form a one-bank holding company is to assure that 
New Orleans Bancshares, Inc.- will be able to acquire, except for 
directors1 qualifying shares, all of the outstanding stock of the 
banking subsidiary. 
Statutory considerations. - From the record before the Board, 
it appears that the merger of Applicant and the Greater New Orleans 
Bank--the latter being a bank with no operating history, formed solely 
to facilitate the corporate reorganization plan described above--would 
itself have no effect on either competition or the banking convenience 
and needs of the relevant area. Further, it does not appear that the 
proposal would have any adverse consequences relative to the financial 
and managerial resources and prospects of the banks involved. 
Accordingly, and in light of all the standards set forth in 
the Bank Merger Act, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
April 9, 1970. 

VoO^'Ov/. 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
D H" T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHI NGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20S51 
1 1 : 
Item No. 8 
4/9/70 
• « 
tJL 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 9, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
The Bank and Trust Company 
of Greater New Orleans, 
New Orleans, Louisiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of The Bank and Trust Company of Greater New Orleans, 
New Orleans, Louisiana, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
(1) Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the safety 
of its depositors, and, except with the permission of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
such bank shall not cause or permit any change to be 
made in the general character of its business or in the 
scope of the corporate powers exercised by it at the 
time of admission to membership. 
(2) The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate powers. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that The Bank and Trust Company of Greater New Orleans, New Orleans, 
Louisiana, will not conduct a banking business with the public until 
it has merged with The Bank of New Orleans and Trust Company, New Orleans, 
Louisiana„ 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of regulation is enclosed. 

1 1 
J .Jlt^ 
Board of Directors 
~2~ 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any-documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution should 
be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
The time within which admission to membership in tlie 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied 
with and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a 
formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretar}7* 
Enclosure, 

4/9/7.0 • •',;"• 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST ARKANSAS BANKSTOCK CORPORATION 
Order for Oral Presentation • 
In the matter of the application of First Arkansas Bankstock 
Corporation, Little Rock, Arkansas, pursuant to section * of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956. 
On March 3, 1970, there vas published in the Federal Register 
(35 FR 4031) a notice of receipt by the Board of Governors of an 
\ application filed pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)) by First Arkansas Bankatock Corporation, 
Uttle Rock, Arkansas, for prior approval by the Board of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
8 0 
c* n t 
aore of the voting shares of Arkansas First National Bank 
of Hot Springs, Hot Springs, Arkansas. Applicant now owns 99.34 per cont 
Of the outstanding voting shares of Worthen Bank and Trust Company, Little 
Kock, Arkansas. 
The aforesaid published notice advised that the application 
available for study at the office of the Board of Governors and the 
*6deral Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and designated a period within which 
commanto and views on tho proposed acquisition could be filed with the 
Board. 
i 
- 
i 
In view of the numerous comments on tho proposal received, it 
•ppears to the Board that it ia appropriate in the public interest that 
there be conducted before the Board a public oral presentation at which 
Views and comments with respect to this application might be presented. 
Accordingly— 

It Ifl hereby ordered. That pursuant to section 262 ^(f) of 
tho Board's rules of procedures (12 CFR 262.3^) (3)) a public oral 
presentation bo hold vith rcspectuto this application consnoncins at 
2tl5 p.m. on Kay 21. 1970 in Roots 1202 of tho Federal Reserve Building, 
20th and Constitution Avonuo, Washington, D# C. 
• 
'">i 
It is further ordorcd, That any person desiring to present 
consmenta and views at the scheduled oral presentation should filo with 
tho Secretary, Board of Governors» Federal Reserve System, VJashington, 
D. C. 20351, no later than May 7, 1970, written notice of intent to 
appear boforo the Board at oaid orsi presentation, such written notice 
to contain A brief summary of tho statement which will be presented at 
tho oral presentation, and the nana of the person who proposea to appear. 
V 
• 
By order of the Board of Coy^aders, April 21, 1S70# 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A« Uanyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

/ 
1 1 5 5 
B D A R D 
OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 10 
4/9/70 • 
A D O R E R S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
BCJARD 
April 10, 1970 
Mr. Dwight A. Ink, 
Assistant Director for Executive Management, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
{V • -. • :; <• . '.• • 
i 
Dear Mr. Ink: 
. j 
This is in reply to your letter of March 10, 1970, re-
questing the Board's views on a proposal submitted by the Small 
Business Administration for consideration by the Committee of State 
Officials on Suggested State Legislation of the Council of State 
Governments. 
The Board notes that this proposal is similar to one on 
which it reported to the Bureau of the Budget by letter dated 
May 7, 19G9. As in the case of the earlier proposal, the Board 
favors this proposal as one that is in keeping with the intent and 
purposes of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 
661 et seq.) 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

H B O 
BOARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 11 
4/9/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
H O A R D 
April 10/ 1970 
Mrc Dwight A 0 Ink, 
Assistant Director for Executive Management, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. Co 20503 
Dear Mr* Ink: 
This is in reply to your letter of Marcli 10, 1970, re-
questing the Board's views on a proposal submitted by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation for consideration by the Committee of 
State Officials on Suggested State Legislation of the Council of 
State Governments, 
The Board is in favor of this proposalo 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C» Holland^ 
Secretary0 
i 
i 
i 

] 
1 X 5 7 
Item No. 12 
4/9/70 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
T] 
PART 220 - CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
Certain Credit by Insurance Companies 
Section 220.7 is amended by adding a new paragraph (f) to read 
as follows: 
$ 220.7 Miscellaneous provisions. 
( f) Credit by insurmcc companies thrt issue varirble annuity 
c W ^ t n . 
(1) Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, 
Part 207 of this Chapter (Regulation G) rather than this part shall apply 
to any credit extended, maintained, or arranged for by a life insurance 
company which (i) meets the definition of "insurance company" set forth 
in section 2(a)(17) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 
&Oa-2(a)(17)) and (ii) is engaged in issuing or participating in the 
issuance of any variable annuity contract, or of any interest in a 
separate account established by such insurance company, registered 
tinder the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77) or exempt from such 
registra tion by Rule 156 ol: the Securities and Exchange Commission 
(17 CFR 230.156). 
(2) The provisions of this part shall apply to any credit 
extended to or maintained or arranged for a. custcmer by a life insur-
°nce company described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph that 

J . 1 5 8 
- 2 -
has registered, or io required to register, as a broker or dealer pur-
suant: to section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o) 
in connection with its activities as such a broker or dealer, including: 
(i) the offer or sale of any security or securities registered 
under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77) or exempt from such reg-
istrction by Rule 156 of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 CFR 230.156) 
issued by ( a ) such insurance company, or (b) an investment company reg-
. 
I . 
. . 
istered pursuant to section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 
Or> U.S.C. 80a-8) for which the insurance company is an underwriter, 
investment advisor or dealer; and 
(ii) those activities which are not part of the conventional 
lending activities of such life insurance companies and which, in accord-
ance with the ordinary usage of the trade, would be considered part of 
the business of a broker or dealer. 
* 
* 
* 
2a. A new paragraph (f) has been added to § 220.7 to permit 
H f c insurance companies subject to registration with the SEC under section 15 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o) (because they 
offer or sell variable annuity contracts) to extend, maintain, or arrange 
for credit subject to Part 207 (Regulation G), rather than this Part 220 
(Regulation T), where the securities credit they extend is unrelated to 
transactions involving a variable annuity or a general securities busi-
ness. Insurance companies subject to registration with the SEC became 
Subject to Regulation T as a result of amendments adopted by the Board 
June 2, 1969 (Federal Register of June 11, 1969 (34 F.R. 9196)). Several 
Guch companies had previously registered with the Board under Regulation G 
n connection with their conventional lending operations, which include 

1 . 1 5 9 
- 3 -
loans secured by margin securities, as defined by § 207.2(d) of that reg-
ulation. The present amendment is designed to aIlocate the lending oper-
c, 
. . . 
ations of such companies between Regulations G and T on a functional basis 
to clarify that extensions of credit pursuant to normal lending activities 
of such insurance companies are not appropriately subject to Regulation T, 
when distinct from any broker-dealer activity of the companies and sub-
ject to Regulation G. Extensions of credit related to transactions involv-
ing the offer or sale of the insurance companies' variable annuity contracts, 
or connected with the activity of the companies as a broker or dealer, 
are subject to Regulation T in the s^me manner as are the financial 
relations between any broker or dealer end his customers. Extensions 
of credit normally associated with conventional lending practices of 
such insurance companies, however, are governed by the provisions of 
Regulation G to the extent they are applicable. This functional al-
location applies where an insurance company has dealings with the same 
customer in connection with both types of activities. For example, the 
fact that a person is or may become a holder of a variable annuity contract 
issued by the company does not of itself cause credit extended to such 
Person by the company as part of its mortgage, commercial, or industrial 
loan operations to become subject to Regulation T. 
2b. In order to provide relief pending the promulgation of 
this 
amendment, the Board suspended, until April 16, 1970, the pro-
visions of Regulation T with the purpose of making such provisions 
inapplicable to credit extended by insurance companies subject to reg-
istration with the SEC as broker-dealers if the credit is unrelated to 

- 4 -
3.1 
transactions involving variable annuity contracts offered or sold by 
such insurance companies or affiliated persons thereof (34 F.R. 12132. 
16629; July 14s October 13, 1969). The period of such suspension is 
hereby extended until Mry 15, 1970. 
c. The foregoing amendments are effective May 15, 1970. 
3. These amendments were adopted by the Board after consider-
ation of all relevant material that was presented by interested persons. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 9th day o£\^prU J.970, 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1 X 6 1 
Item No. 13 
4/9/70 
TITLE 12--BANKS AMD BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
/ 
[Reg. A] 
PART 201—ADVANCES AND DISCOUNTS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Negotiability of Paper 
I 
; •• 
: 
i 
1. 
Effective April 16. 1970, Part 201 is amended by 
, • 
1 
deleting the word "negotiable" where it occurs in 55 201.3(a)(1), 
201.3(b), 201.3(d), and 201.3(e); by deleting subparagraph (2) of 
§ 201.3(i); and by deleting "(1)" immediately after the catch line 
in § 201.3(1). 
2a, The purpose of these amendments is to eliminate the 
regulatory requirement that paper offered by member banks Co the 
Federal Reserve Banks for discount or as collateral for advances 
under section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act! must in all cases bo 
negotiable. The Act does not require that such paper be negotiable; 
and, under present regulations, nonnegotiable paper may be used as 
collateral for advances under section 10(b) of the Act, but such 
advances must bear a rate of interest higher than the regular 
Reserve Bank discount rate. It appears unnecessary and undesirable 
to continue to require that paper otherv;ise eligible and of good 
quality shall in all instances meet technical requirements as to 
negotiability in order to be discounted or used as collateral for 
advances at the regular discount rate. Elimination of the regulatory 

11G2 
requirement will not:, .however, preclude a Reserve Bank in individual 
cases from declining l:o accept nonuegotiable paper for discount or 
as collateral for advances. The amendments are essentially technical 
in nature andfcreflect no change in the Federal Reserve System's gen-
eral credit and monetary policies, 
b. These amendments were adopted by the Board without 
I 
following the procedures prescribed in section 553 of Title 5, United 
States Code, relating to notice, public participation, and deferred 
I 
effective date, since notice and public participation would have 
been unnecessary and would have served no useful purpose and since 
. 
the amendments relieve a restriction in present regulations of the 
Board , 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 9, 19/0. 
(signed) Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Ke nne th A. Ke nyo n, 
Deputy Secretary,. 
[SEAL] 
