MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 1, 1972 

3112 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, November 1, 1972, The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr, Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr, Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr, Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
First National City. At yesterday's meeting, in connection 
with the approval of several applications related to foreign operations, 
the Board approved a letter to First National City Corporation, New York, 
New York, that stated that: 
"The Board has concluded that no further 
applications on behalf of either First National City Corporation or 
First National City Bank will be acted upon until after such time as 
we are informed in writing of your plans for additions to the equity 
capital of First National City Bank. The Board was pleased to learn 

3113 
11/1/72 
- 2 -
that Messrs. Howard and Stewart of First National City Bank are to 
meet with members of the Board's staff today to discuss the equity 
capital position of First National City Bank." 
At today's meeting Mr. Leavitt reported that the bank repre-
sentatives with whom he had met had been shown a copy of the letter 
the Board had approved that morning, and were concerned because First 
National City Corporation was under registration with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission for the issuance of $100 million of debt 
obligations, the proceeds of which were to be added to the capital of 
First National City Bank as part of the 1972 capital improvement program 
that had already been agreed upon with the Comptroller of the Currency. 
The time element of the holding company's registration with the SEC 
was such that the Board's position would have to be disclosed in the 
prospectus as a material fact related to the pending issue of securities. 
Messrs. Leavitt and Gardner recommended that another letter be 
sent, a draft of which had been distributed, that would countermand the 
instruction that no further applications would be processed, but would 
reiterate the expectation that First National City would make an early 
submission in writing regarding its capital improvement plans. 
Discussion verified that the Board's letter approved yesterday 
was a material fact in relation to the proposed issue of securities. 
Registration had required filing a public statement of the holding 

3111 
11/1/72 
- 3 -
company's programs and plans for expansion, which could not be ful-
filled if the Board was unwilling to process further applications. 
The 
injurious effect of disclosing that fact might be felt not only with 
respect to the pending securities issue, making its marketing more 
difficult and expensive, but also with respect to the stock of First 
National City Bank. A public disclosure that a supervisory agency 
had brought such pressure for additional capital could impair confidence 
in the bank and create doubt regarding its earnings prospects that would 
have an adverse effect on the bank's stock. 
Discussion of the likelihood of being able to obtain adequate 
capital improvement if the Board lifted the processing suspension 
emphasized that no one figure could be declared as representing the 
amount of capital necessary. The holding company no doubt would want 
to negotiate the terms, but the staff believed that the company's inten-
tion of working out details after the securities issue had been marketed 
had been expressed in good faith. Earlier questions of supervisory 
jurisdiction of the Board to require capital improvement in a national 
bank had been resolved, and there seemed to be a good prospect that the 
terms considered desirable by the Board would be very substantially met. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had been reluctant to send 
yesterday's letter. 
It had superseded the letter of October 13, which 
he had regarded as sufficient to hold the place by requesting the 

311«j 
11/1/72 
-4-
submission in writing of a capital improvement plan. He regarded the 
disclosure requirements with respect to registration of the securities 
issue as a problem to be resolved by First National City. 
However, 
the point had been made with respect to the letter approved yesterday 
that the Board should not suspend the processing of applications unless 
it meant to carry through with that intention, and he saw in the propo-
sal for countermanding that instruction exactly the kind of uncertainty 
that had beset the problem of capital for First National City from the 
beginning. 
He was concerned with slippage, such as the misunderstanding 
regarding the holding company's capital improvement program for 1973, 
which had prompted the Board's letter of October 13. 
Several changes in the draft letter were agreed upon during 
further discussion. 
The letter was then approved, Governor Brimmer 
dissenting, in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3116 
BDARD OF 
GOVERNORS 
.•"oV.-'ow'•. 
or t h e 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/1/72 
P l f 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
^ I D R C B S 
O r r i U I A L 
C O R I i E ' J P O H P t N n C 
T O 
T H E 
U Q A H O 
November 1, 1972 
Fir ;t National City Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
Hey York, New York 10022. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors met this morning to consider a 
report from its staff concerning a meeting with Messrs. Howard 
and Stewart of First: National City Bank in the Board's offices 
yesterday afternoon. 
The staff reported that, while there was 
no commitment made by those representatives of First National 
City Bank to a definite amount by which the bank would increase 
i-ts equity capital, ths tenor of their remarks indicated to all 
present that First National City Bank was prepared to take 
reasonable steps to improve, the size of its equity capital to 
the Board's satisfaction. 
On the basis of the staff's report, the Board no longer 
deems it necessary or appropriate to any regulatory purpose for 
the Board to withhold action on further applications of First 
National City Corporation or First National City Bank. The Board 
therefore has countermanded its order oC yesterday in that regard 
and has instructed its staff to resume processing of such applica-
tions, pending early submission in writing of your plans regarding 
the capital position of First National City Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
//' 
# 
/Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
