MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 8, 1969 

3(H>9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 8, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Dominion Barikshares. There had been distributed drafts of an 
order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on September 18, 1969, 
°f the application of Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, 
to acquire shares of Southampton County Bank, Courtland, Virginia. 

nmo 
10/8/69 
-2-
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
are attached under Item No. 1. 
Hamilton National Associates. There had been distributed drafts 
of an order and statement reflecting the Board's denial on September 18, 
1969, of the application of Hamilton National Associates, Incorporated, 
Chattanooga, Tennessee, to acquire shares of Marion Trust and Banking 
Company, Jasper, Tennessee. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
are attached under Item No. 2. 
Reserve Bank expenses. After discussion, the Board unanimously 
approved a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank Chairmen and Presidents 
requesting that strict budgetary restraint be continued not only with 
respect to operating expenses but also with respect to construction 
programs. A copy of the letter, in the form approved, is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation Q. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated September 25, 1969, from the Legal Division and the 
Division of International Finance proposing an amendment to Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits, with respect to time deposits of foreign governmental 
authorities and international institutions. 
Section 217.3(g) of Regulation Q makes the interest rate limitations 
of that regulation inapplicable to time deposits with a maturity of not 
more than two years that are owned by foreign governments, monetary or 

10/8/69 
-3-
financial authorities thereof when acting as such, and international 
financial institutions of which the United States is a member. The 
staff recommended broadening this exemption to include (1) any foreign 
governmental entity engaged principally in activities that are commonly 
performed in the United States by a governmental entity, and (2) any 
international entity (whether financial or not) of which the United 
States is a member, and (3) certain other international or supranational 
entities that the Board might specifically designate as exempt after 
consulting with the Secretary of State. It also recommended that a 
clarifying footnote providing for an alternate procedure for transfer 
of exempt certificates of deposit be added. 
The memorandum cited requests for interpretations that seemed 
to point to the desirability of the proposed amendment and described 
the rationale of the changes recommended. It appeared that the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation was prepared to make a similar amendment 
to its parallel regulation. A draft of amendment was attached to the 
memorandum. 
In response to a question, Mr. Norwood indicated that he under-
stood the Treasury had no objection to the proposed amendment. Basically, 
the situation with respect to deposits of foreign central banks and 
governments would be unaltered. The main effect of the proposal would be 
to expand the exemption to provide the same treatment for deposits of 
certain additional institutions. The dollar amount involved would be 
small compared to the $4.7 billion now covered by the exemption; for 

10/8/69 
-4-
example, the proposal would extend the exemption to deposits of the 
United Nations Development Program which now had about $40 million on 
deposit in banks in the United States and would like to bring in another 
$40 million. 
Governor Brimmer expressed concern over a statement in the memo-
randum that "Corporations wholly owned by a foreign government would also 
be exempt if they are primarily engaged in what would be considered 
governmental activities in this country (even though those activities 
might be performed in the United States by private persons as well)." 
His immediate thought was of public utilities; also, many foreign govern-
ments owned their countries
1 air lines and shipping lines. While he 
could see reason for permitting special treatment of quasi-financial 
institutions of foreign governments, he believed that some link to 
financial activities should be the criterion rather than mere ownership 
of a given corporation by a foreign government. 
Governor Daane commented that he shared the concern Governor Brimmer 
had expressed. 
Governor Brimmer also questioned whether the proposed procedure 
for transferring exempt CD's was generally acceptable to those affected. 
Responses brought out that the change had been suggested by the New York 
Reserve Bank, that no other institution was known to oppose it, and that 
in any event it was only an alternative and did not foreclose the use of 
existing procedures. 

3073 
10/8/69 
-5-
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that 
the staff would review the proposal in the light of the views that had 
been expressed, after which the Board would consider the matter further. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Hart then 
withdrew. 
Board staff. Governor Sherrill recommended to the Board an 
increase from $23,000 to $25,000, effective October 8, 1969, in the 
annual salary of Robert P. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary. This increase 
had been proposed by Mr. Holland in a memorandum dated October 7, 1969, in 
recognition of Mr. Forrestal's current performance and potential for 
greater responsibility. Immediate action was suggested, rather than to 
wait for a general review of officer salaries, in view of an attractive 
employment opportunity being tendered Mr. Forrestal by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta. After discussion, the Board approved the recommended 
action, with the understanding that further consideration of Mr. Forrestal
1 
compensation might be called for at a later date. 
Demand deposit ownership survey. Governor Mitchell reported to 
the Board that he was to attend a Budget Bureau meeting this afternoon 
at which the Bureau
1s advisory panel of commercial bankers was scheduled 
to comment on the demand deposit ownership series being proposed by the 
Board. He said that the bankers were expected to object strenuously to 
the proposal, and therefore he would appreciate an indication of the 
strength of Board support for the series. The Board members indicated 
their firm support for the new series, and Governor Mitchell reported 

KJ *M 
10/8/69 
-6-
that officials of both new Budget Bureau and the Council of Economic 
Advisers likewise would support the proposal. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3075 
Item No. 1 
10/8/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
-
•» 
«•» 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
» 
Roanoke, Virginia, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of more 
' 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares ' 
of Southampton County Bank, Courtland,' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK BY 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t 0 S e c t i o n 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<
1 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
R e8ulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Dominion Bankshares 
Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, for 
t h e B o a r d ' s prior approval of the acquisition of more than 80 per cent 
o f the voting shares of Southampton County Bank, Courtland, Virginia. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Commissioner of Banking of the State of Virginia of receipt of the application 
a n d 
r e cl
uasted his views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended 
approval of the application. 

3076 
- 2 -
i 
Notice of receipt of the application was published iti the 
Federal Register on August 5, 1969 (34 Federal Register 12729), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 8th day of October 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Robertson. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Onrnichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3077 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
SOUTHAMPTON COUNTY BANK, COURTLAND, VIRGINIA 
STATEMENT 
Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of more 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares of Southampton County Bank, Courtland, 
Virginia ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
b y section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Commissioner of Banking 
the State of Virginia of receipt of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner recommended approval 
o f the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 

3078 
-2-
Part 0 f t h e u n i t e c l states. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
t o lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
0 utweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
l n m e e t i n g the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
G ach case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
a n d 
m a tiagerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
a n d the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to 
b e served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The nine 
*
a*gest banking organizations in Virginia, which include six bank holding 
Co">panies, control 65.6 per centi/ of the State's total banking deposits 
o f $6.9 billion. Applicant is the third largest of the holding companies 
atld the fifth largest banking organization in the State. The consummation 
Of th ' 
ni-s proposal would result in no change in Applicant's relative position 
among holding companies and banking organizations in Virginia, and would 
itlcrease its holdings of the deposits in the State by only .1 per cent. 
The only office of Bank,which has $4.6 million deposits, is located 
i n the small town of Courtland, the county seat of Southampton County 
^Population 20,000). Bank is the only bank in Courtland, and the only 
but^*
 b a n k i n 8
 
d a t a 
a r e 
a s of December 31, 196 8, unless otherwise noted, 
r eflect holding company acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

3073 
i 
; 
bank headquartered in Southampton County. The county is also served by 
three offices of the largest bank in the State, one office of a subsidiary 
°f the largest bank holding company in the State, and one office of an 
$8 million deposit bank headquartered in Sussex County. In terms of 
total deposits, Bank is the smallest of the four banks with offices in 
the county; it is the third largest in terms of deposits held in offices 
located in the county. 
The closest office to Bank of any of Applicant's subsidiaries 
is located 40 miles east in Norfolk, which distance encompasses several 
counties and cities that are served by a number of intervening banks. 
There is no indication of any existing competition between Bank and any 
Applicant's subsidiaries. State law does not permit the present 
subsidiaries to branch de novo in Bank's service area, and it therefore 
does not appear that significant potential competition would be foreclosed 
b y 
t*
l e proposed acquisition. Finally, in view of the relative size of 
Bank's competitors, it does not appear that consummation of the proposal 
W o u l d have any undue adverse effect on such competing banks. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly, 
n°r be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
Monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. It does not 
aPPear that the acquisition would substantially lessen competition, tend 
t o create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 

3080 
Financial and managerial resoiirces and future prospects» -
The financial condition and management of Applicant and its subsidiary 
banks are generally satisfactory, and their prospects appear favorable. 
Bank is in satisfactory financial condition. Its management 
i s presently adequate, but its chief executive officer is nearing the 
usual retirement age, and, although it is not established that satisfactory 
successor management could not be obtained without Applicant's assistance, 
consummation of the present proposal would provide a ready solution to 
a n y 
raanagement succession problems which might develop. Prospects of the 
Bank, which appear favorable in any event, would likely be improved as 
a subsidiary of Applicant. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors lend some support 
in favor of the approval of this application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposed transaction would have no effect on the 
convenience and needs of the customers served by Applicant's present 
subsidiary banks. 
Bank serves a large portion of Southampton County and the 
d e p e n d e n t city of Franklin. The banking needs of the area are being 
a d equately served by the full-service banking offices of the large banking 
organizations in operation in the county. However, Bank's affiliation 
it;h A p p l i c a n t w o u l d likely cause it to become a more effective competitor 
of fi, 
c 
n e first and second largest banking organizations in the State, which 
P e r a t e offices in the area, and would provide the area with an additional 
f uU-service banking alternative. The improvements which Applicant 

proposes to initiate include increased real estate and commercial lending 
capabilities, and availability of fiduciary services. In addition, 
the greater resources of Applicant would increase the branching capability 
of Bank, which, under State law, is the only bank permitted to establish 
new offices in the county. 
Considerations under this factor support approval of the 
application. 
Summary and conclusion.- On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transactions would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
•X • 
' « 
-
October 8, 1969. 

3082 
Item No. 2 
10/8/69 
, j i 
UNITED STATfcs OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
HAMILTON NATIONAL ASSOCIATES, INCORPORATED, 
Chattanooga, Tennessee, 
for approval of acquisition of 50 c9 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Marion Trust and Banking Company, 
Jasper, Tennessee. 
ORDER DISAPPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222„3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Hamilton National 
Associates, Incorporated, Chattanooga, Tennessee, a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
o f 50,9 per cent or more of the voting shares of Marion Trust and 
Banking Company, Jasper, Tennessee. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
b i t t e n notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 
Banks of the State of Tennessee and requested his views and 

3083 
I 
i 
recommendation! The Superintendent responded that no objection to 
the proposed transaction would be made by his office. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 23, 1969 (34 Federal Register 12196), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 8th day of October 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Robertson. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3084 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
HAMILTON NATIONAL ASSOCIATES, INCORPORATED, CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
MARION TRUST AND BANKING COMPANY, JASPER, TENNESSEE 
STATEMENT 
Hamilton National Associates, Incorporated, Chattanooga, 
Tennessee ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has 
applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 50.9 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Marion Trust and Banking Company, Jasper, Tennessee 
("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
cation was given to the Superintendent of Banks of the State of 
Tennessee, and his views and recommendation were requested. The 
Superintendent replied that his office would not object to the pro-
Posed transaction. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 

30? 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be sub-
stantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consider-
ation the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant is 
the larger of two Tennessee-based bank holding companies, 
and is the 
2.1 
fifth largest banking organization in the State. 
It has eight sub-
sidiary banks in Tennessee, which have 30 banking offices and hold 
about $366 million of deposits. Acquisition of Bank, which has de-
Posits of $5.1 million, would increase Applicant's share of deposits 
held by all banks in the State from 5.9 per cent to 6.0 per cent, an 
increase which, of itself, is not considered competitively significant. 
•i/ Two bank holding companies with principal banking operations outside 
e State also have subsidiary banks in Tennessee. 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1968, adjusted to reflect 
°lding company acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

3086 
Of much greater significance and concern is the effect which 
the instant proposal would have in the local area served by Bank. The 
only office of Bank is located in Jasper, Marion County, Tennessee, 
and Bank is one of only two banks presently located in the county, 
which has a population of 21,600. The other bank in Marion County is 
First National Bank of South Pittsburg ($8.6 million deposits) a sub-
sidiary of Applicant, which is located only seven miles southwest of 
Bank on a good connecting highway. Both of the banks serve a large 
Portion of Marion County, and each derives a significant portion of its 
business from the area served by the other. 
The closest large city to Jasper is Chattanooga, which is 
located 25 miles to the southeast. There is little commuting between 
Jasper and Chattanooga, and it appears that, for a large portion of the 
residents of Marion County, Bank and Applicant's South Pittsburg sub-
sidiary are the only convenient banking alternatives. Consummation of 
Applicant's proposal would leave such residents without a competitive 
alternative to Applicant, and would increase Applicant's share of county 
deposits from 62.5 per cent to 100 per cent. 
Under Tennessee law, a bank may establish branches only within 
the county in which its principal office is located. The domination of 
county banking which Applicant would immediately achieve as a result of 
t h e present proposal, therefore, could be alleviated only through the 
establishment of new banks in the county. The difficulty and uncertainty 
o f that path toward deconcentration, which relies upon the success of a 

30 £ 
n®w bank faced with competition ftofo an entrenched and relatively 
•! 
• 
powerful organization, leads to the conclusion that the concentration 
which would immediately result from Applicant's proposal would con-
tinue substantially undiminished for the foreseeable future. State 
authorities recently approved the establishment of a new bank in South 
Pittsburg. While the opening of that bank would make Applicant's con-
trol of county banking less than complete, the likelihood of its open-
ing 
does not alter the Board's judgment regarding the undesirability of 
the competitive situation which the present proposal would create. 
Based on the deposit projections of the new bank, it appears that, even 
the unlikely event that the deposits of Applicant's South Pittsburg 
subsidiary and of Bank were to remain static while the new bank achieves 
its full anticipated deposit growth, Applicant would continue to control 
°ver 80 per cent of county deposits after the new bank has been in oper-
ation for three years. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that Applicant's 
Proposal would not only eliminate significant existing competition be-
tween Bank and Applicant's South Pittsburg subsidiary, but would tend 
t o create a banking monopoly in Marion County, if, indeed, it would not 
immediately achieve that result. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant 
and its present subsidiaries are in satisfactory financial 
condition, with competent management, and their prospects appear 
favorable. 

-5-
31)83 
Bank's financial condition is also satisfactory. Its 
management is capable, and, although its President plans to retire 
in a short time, it does not appear that Applicant's assistance is 
essential in filling the vacancy which his retirement will create. 
Prospects of Bank are regarded as favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
with, but provide no significant weight in favor of, approval of the 
application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Jasper, 
with a population of 1,450, is the third largest of six small cities in 
Marion County which range in population from 170 to 4,130 (South 
Pittsburg). Marion County is located in southeastern Tennessee and 
borders on the Alabama and Georgia State lines. The economy of the 
area is based primarily on coal mining and small manufacturing, and 
growth of the area has been slow. 
Bank currently offers a full range of banking services, with 
the exception of trust services. Although Applicant states that its 
Proposal would make trust services more conveniently available to Bank's 
customers, there appears to be no substantial demand for such services 
in the area. 
It appears that banking needs in Marion County are being 
adequately met by Bank and Applicant's South Pittsburg subsidiary, and 
that no significant improvements would result from Applicant's proposal. 
These considerations therefore provide no significant weight toward 
approval of the application. 

. -I 'vi*''* 
Summary and conclusion. - Consummation of Applicant's 
proposal would create a near-monopoly in banking in Marion County, 
Tennessee. No other considerations presented by the record offset, 
to any measurable extent, the adverse effects on the public interest 
which would result from the proposal's anticompetitive consequences. 
On the basis of all relevant facts contained in the record, 
and in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, 
it is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would not be 
in the public interest, and that the application should be denied. 
t\ •/ 
1 
October 8, 1969. 

>0f COv 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/8/69 
ADDRESS QF-ISIAL CDRREE PONDEN 
TD THE BOARD 
October 9, 1969. • 
D e a r Sirj 
In a letter dated April 16, 1969, the Board noted the particu-
ar obligation of the Federal Reserve System in the administration of 
1ts internal affairs to exercise the same discipline that we ask of 
" w h ^
r S 
i n combating widespread inflationary pressures. As you are aware, 
Jile the economic climate has changed somewhat during the intervening 
ive months, developments still show consideraDle strength in some sectors 
£ the economy. Against this background, the President recently ordered 
drastic cutback in new contracts for Government construction as an 
^ - i n f l a t i o n a r y measure. 
While the se circumstances prevail, the Board will approve only 
w h i ^
 n G W 
c o n s t r u c t i o n Programs and major repair and alteration projects 
ich are of an urgent or emergency nature. In each instance involving 
0 f f ?
q u e s t 
f°
r a u t h o r l t y
 
t 0 spend funds for construction purposes, the 
ricers and directors of the Reserve Bank involved should be prepared 
0 defend the priority they give to the request. 
o f
 
I n 
t h e area of operating expenses, the Board asks that the 
ricers an:' directors of each Reserve Bank and branch scrutinize all 
Revisions in their budgets for the first half of 1970 and eliminate ail 
^essential items. Whenever possible, budget overruns during the current 
and
 
S h o u l d 
b e 
a v o i d e d - 
Significant increases in staff, fees, furniture 
^ 
equipment purchases, and expenses for other purposes should be fully 
cumented and justified in the budget material submitted to the Board of 
governors for review. 
Very truly yours, 
y, v— 
X / 
' 
t** 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
T ° IIIE PRESIDENTS AND CHAIRMEN OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
