Minutes for 
February 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes* 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Roberts 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
in 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tem on Wednesday, February 21, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Plotkin, and Via, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 

720 
2/21/68 
-2-
Messrs. Shull, Cleaver, Lawrence, Lougee, and 
Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Goodfellow, Karsten, and Sanford, 
Review Examiners, Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Provident National Bank, Philadelphia, 
1 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Nassau, Bahamas. 
Letter to International Banking Corporation, New 
2 
York, New York, granting consent to the acquisi-
tion of additional shares in Banque Internationale 
pour l'Afrique Occidentale, Paris, France. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
3 
approving a loan on gold to the Central Bank of 
the Phi lippines. 
Letter to Sears Bank and Trust Company, Chicago, 
4 
Illinois, granting its request for permission to 
m
aintain reduced reserves. 
<#» i £ 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
5 
approving a program of increased Blue Cross-Blue 
Shield coverage at the Helena Branch. 
With respect to Item No. 2, it was noted that the application 
W a s
 filed prior to January 1, 1968. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
Posed merger of The First National Bank of Lancaster, Lancaster, South 

2/21/68 
-3-
Carolina, into The Anderson Bank of Dillon, Dillon, South Carolina, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The con-
clusion stated that consummation of the proposed merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed consolidation of The Eau 
Claire State Bank, Eau Claire, Michigan, with Inter-City Bank, Benton 
Harbor, Michigan, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
There exists a small amount of competition between 
The Eau Claire State Bank and Inter-City Bank, Benton 
Harbor, which would be eliminated by the proposed con-
solidation, and the overall competitive effect of the 
transaction would be slightly adverse. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Farmers 
National Bank of Manchester, Manchester, Ohio, with The Farmers Bank 
a n
d Savings Company, Peebles, Ohio, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Corporation, the conclusion being stated as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Farmers 
National Bank of Manchester and The Farmers Bank and 
Savings Company, Peebles, would eliminate a small amount 
of existing and potential competition, and the overall 
effect of the instant proposal on competition would be 
slightly adverse. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
c
°mpetitive factors involved in the proposed acquisition of a portion 
the assets and assumption of a portion of the liabilities of the 

2/21/68 
-4-
Moorpark branch of First Western Bank and Trust Company, Los Angeles, 
California, by Bank of A. Levy, Oxnard, California, was approved unani-
mously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
There appears to be little, if any, competition 
existing between Bank of A. Levy, Oxnard, and the 
Moorpark Branch of First Western Bank and Trust Com-
pany, Los Angeles. However, because of the opportu-
nity for de novo branching in the State, there is 
potential for competition between them. The overall 
competitive effect of the proposal is slightly adverse. 
The Board recognizes that there is a question 
whether the ancillary agreement by First Western Bank 
and Oxnard Bank not to compete is reasonable within 
the meaning of section 1 of the Sherman Act. 
However, 
the Board expresses no opinion on this point. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of First Union National Bank 
°f North Carolina, Charlotte, North Carolina, and The National Bank of 
Alamance of Graham, Graham, North Carolina, into Queen City National 
Bank, Charlotte, North Carolina, was approved for transmittal to the 
Comptroller. 
(The assets of the two existing banks were to be trans-
ferred to Queen City National Bank, a new organization whose applica-
tion for a charter was currently pending. The merged institution would 
°Perate under the charter of Queen City National Bank and under the 
title of First Union National Bank of North Carolina. The majority of 
the outstanding stock of the merged institution would be owned by First 
Union National Bancorp., Inc.) 
In the form in which the report was 
a
PProved for transmittal, the conclusion read as follows: 

/Vw 
2/21/68 
-5-
There is little, if any, existing competition between 
The National Bank of Alamance of Graham and First Union 
National Bank of North Carolina, Charlotte; however, there 
is some potential for competition between them at some 
future time. Consummation of the proposed merger would 
increase slightly the concentration of banking resources 
held by a few large banks in the State of North Carolina, 
and the three largest banks in the State would control a 
significant portion of the total deposits held by banks 
in Alamance County. The overall competitive effect would 
be adverse. 
It was understood that the body of the report would be amended in 
certain respects. 
Governors Mitchell and Daane expressed the view that the over-
all competitive effect of the proposed merger would be only slightly 
adverse. 
Interdependence of computer and communications technology 
litems 6 and 7). The re had been distributed a memorandum dated Febru-
ary 15, 1968, from Mr. Shay relating to a Notice of Inquiry captioned 
"Interdependence of Computer and Communication Services and Facilities," 
initially published in the Federal Register on November 19, 1966, by 
the Federal Communications Commission. The notice (a copy of which 
W a s
 attached to the memorandum) set forth the Commission's concern over 
fc
he implications, in terms of its functions and responsibilities, of 
the growing convergence and interdependence of data processing and 
communications technology. The inquiry was to be in the nature of an 
e x
Ploration of the problems involved. On the basis of information 
received the Commission would evaluate the adequacy of its existing 

( /W 
2/21/68 
-6-
policies and the need, if any, for change, including such legislative 
measures as might be required. An extended deadline of March 5, 1968, 
had been set for the submission of statements. 
The question whether some System response should be made had 
been considered by the Subcommittee on Improving the Payments Mechanism 
of the Presidents' Conference Committee on Inter-Bank Electronic Com-
munications. The Subcommittee concluded that because of the System's 
present and future involvement with computer-communications matters the 
System had a real stake in the outcome of the FCC inquiry. The Sub-
committee also concluded that the best interests of the System would 
not be served by the representations of a trade group, such as the 
American Bankers Association, or by General Services Administration, 
which it appeared would represent Government agencies generally. 
Accordingly, the Subcommittee recommended that the Federal 
Reserve Banks or the Board, on behalf of the Banks, make known the 
System's interest in the proceedings. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Federal 
Communications Commission that would serve as a statement of System 
°bjectives and special problems. It was also suggested that a press 
release covering the submission of the statement to the Commission 
w
ould be appropriate, and it was understood that the Commission would 
n
°t object to such a procedure. 
If j.« 
Following comments by Mr. Shay, Governor Mitchell noted that 
from the System viewpoint there appeared to be two principal problems 

2/21/68 
-7-
involved. One related to the need for the System to have freedom in 
developing its money transfer mechanism. The other issue related to 
the status of the Federal Reserve System within the Government. As 
drafted, the statement would leave the Federal Reserve in a flexible 
posture in dealing with General Services Administration, computer 
manufacturers, or the telephone company. This approach was an impor-
tant one to preserve because in the development of computer-communica-
tions facilities the System might or might not want to use GSA facili-
ties . 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the suggestion with 
respect to the issuance of a press release was an appropriate one. 
There had been many developments in automation both in the System and 
at commercial banks since the last System release, and an announcement 
°f System proposals in the field of an improved communications network 
should serve a useful purpose at this time. The staff was in the pro-
cess of drafting a release for Board consideration that would combine 
a
n announcement of the steps already taken toward adopting System 
°Perations to take advantage of developments in data processing and 
transmission technology with an indication that a statement outlining 
Federal Reserve plans was being filed with the Federal Communications 
Commission. 
In discussion there was general agreement with Chairman 
Martin's suggestion that Governor Mitchell be authorized to approve 
°
n
 behalf of the Board a press release along the lines proposed. 

f 
* 
2/21/68 
-8-
Governor Brimmer expressed the hope that there would be rio tie-
in between the submission of a statement by the System and one from the 
American Bankers Association. Mr. Shay said that the System presenta-
tion had been developed independently and so far as he knew there had 
been no consultation between the Reserve Banks and the American Bankers 
Association. He understood that the ABA probably would not have its 
statement ready for submission to the FCC for several days. 
Therefore, 
prompt transmittal of the Federal Reserve statement should avoid any 
impression of linked submissions. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the transmittal of a 
statement to the Federal Communications Commission in the form attached 
as Item No. 6. A copy of the press release subsequently issued is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
Proxy statement of Cleveland Trust Company (Item No. 8). 
There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated February 19, 1968, from the 
^
e
gal Division relating to the question of inclusion of certain propos-
als by a minority stockholder in the proxy statement of Cleveland Trust 
Company, Cleveland, Ohio. One of the proposals contemplated the appoint-
m e
n t of another bank as trustee of Cleveland Trust Company's employee 
Pension plan; the other proposal would amend the by-laws of Cleveland 
^ u s t Company so that any stockholder could inspect the list of securi-
ties held by the trustee for the pension fund. Upon receipt of notice 
t
^at the bank intended to omit the proposals from its proxy statement, 

I 
/ 
2/21/68 
-9-
the minority stockholder, on January 26, 1968, submitted three addi-
tional proposals for inclusion. The bank proposed to omit these 
additional proposals as well. 
Under the terms of Regulation F (Securities of Member State 
Banks), Cleveland Trust Company would be required to present such pro-
posals in its proxy statement unless they fell within one of the 
exclusions set forth in section 206.5(k), the terms of which required 
the bank to submit to the Board the reasons why the exclusion of the 
proposals was believed to be justified. 
The reasons advanced by Cleveland Trust Company for omitting 
both sets of proposals from its proxy statement, and an analysis of 
the situation by the Legal Division, were set forth in the distributed 
memorandum. The Division recommended that the Board interpose no 
objection to omission of the proposals submitted on January 26, 1968, 
on the ground that they did not meet the 60-day advance submission 
requirement of the regulation. The Division also recommended that the 
Board interpose no objection to the omission of the resolution relating 
to availability, for inspection by stockholders, of the list of equity 
securities held by the bank as trustee of its employees' pension fund. 
The Division was not prepared to recommend that the Board disregard 
the opinion of counsel for Cleveland Trust Company with respect to 
°hio law, and it was counsel's contention that the Ohio statutes 
r
equired that trust records be kept confidential. With respect to 

2/21/68 
-10-
the proposal directing Cleveland Trust Company to consider appointing 
a bank other than itself as trustee of its employees' pension fund, 
the Legal Division concluded that this proposal might not properly be 
omitted from the proxy material, since it did not relate to the con-
duct of ordinary operations of the bank within the meaning of the 
applicable section of Regulation F. 
A draft letter to Cleveland Trust Company reflecting the Legal 
Division's recommendations was attached to the distributed memorandum. 
After summary remarks by Mr. Plotkin several members of the 
Board raised questions of legal interpretation to which the staff 
responded, following which unanimous approval was given to the recom-
mendations of the Legal Division. A copy of the letter subsequently 
sent to Cleveland Trust Company is attached as Item No. 8. It was 
understood that a copy of the letter would also be sent to the minority 
stockholder. 
Either at this point in the meeting or earlier, members of the 
staff not concerned with the following topic withdrew from the meet-
ing and Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary, and Mrs. Sette and Mrs. Ray 
the Division of Research and Statistics entered. 
Review of operations in domestic securities. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from Mr. Molony dated February 16, 1968, to 
w
hich was attached a review of open market operations in domestic 
securities in 1967 prepared by the Manager of the System Open Market 

2/21/68 
-11-
Account and proposed for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report for 
1967. 
The discussion at this meeting related principally to the 
introductory section of the review, wherein the Manager described the 
changing economic and financial atmosphere in which monetary policy 
was formulated during 1967. Governor Daane cited a number of passages 
that he considered questionable and inquired of the staff whether the 
summary appeared to be consistent with the review of economic develop-
ments that would appear elsewhere in the Annual Report. Mr. Axilrod 
expressed the view that the Manager's summary was generally consistent 
with the review of economic developments. Governor Mitchell then 
observed that this was a problem that had recurred from year to year. 
He raised the question whether it would be advisable to confine the 
Manager's report to a review of open market operations and avoid the 
introductory portion. Governor Daane said he leaned somewhat in that 
direction. 
Governor Maisel expressed apprehension that the Manager's sum-
m a r
y might tend to give an erroneous impression because, in his opinion, 
t e
nded to obscure the fact that the decisions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee had been forward-looking rather than steps taken to 
c
°Pe with crises after they emerged. He found little reference, for 
e
xampl e j to the role of expectations. He and other Board members then 
m a
d e several suggestions for changes in the introductory section to 

• o v i 
2/21/68 
-12-
meet problems that they saw in it. Governor Daane also referred to 
the portion of the Manager's review dealing with operations following 
the devaluation of sterling. He raised the question whether the events 
of that period needed to be covered in so much detail. He also indi-
cated that he would pass on to the staff several specific suggestions. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the opinion that the Manager's 
review was a highly useful document, one which should be included in 
the Annual Report. Further, he considered it useful for the Manager 
to explain the setting in which the operations of the Desk were con-
ducted. On the other hand, he doubted whether the Manager's review 
should include an explanation or defense of monetary policy, for that 
was set forth elsewhere in the Annual Report. As to the post-devalua-
tion period, he thought it was helpful to have in the record as much 
information as could be provided. Therefore, he was not concerned 
about the amount of detail in the Manager's report. 
Governor Daane expressed agreement that it was useful to 
include the Manager's review of operations in the Annual Report, and 
Governor Mitchell also agreed. The latter added, however, that he 
questioned the need for a statement by the Manager reflecting his 
understanding of the intent of monetary policy. 
Chairman Martin said that he had read the Manager's review 
c
arefully and that he considered it generally satisfactory. Since the 
r e
view reflected understandings of the Account Manager, he would ques-
tion the appropriateness of suggesting substantial revisions. 

2/21/68 
-13-
After further discussion, Governor Daane said that he would 
be willing to turn over to the staff the responsibility for working 
t-M 
• ' 
' 
. • 
-
\ 
' • * • 
j
out certain editorial-type changes with the Account Manager in the 
light of the comments that had been made today, with the understanding 
that, if necessary, the review would then be brought back to the Board 
for further discussion. 
There was general agreement with this suggestion, and the 
matter was left on that basis. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
On February 20, 1968, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf of 
the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Salary increases 
, 
, 
.. 
. 
Reba C. Driver, Statistical Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, from $7,982 to $8,534 per annum, effective Febru-
ary 25, 1968. 
Geraldine C. Ledson, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research 
and Statistics, from $5,493 to $5,937 per annum, with a change in 
title to Statistical Assistant, effective February 25, 1968. 
•transfers 
Helen T. Farr, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from the National Income, Labor Force, and Trade Section to the 
Banking Section, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate 
°f $11,267, effective February 25, 1968. 
Diane Dzik, from the position of Stenographer in the Division 
°f Examinations to the position of Secretary in the Division of 
Research and Statistics, with an increase in basic annual salary 
fr
°m $5,161 to $5,565, effective February 25, 1968. 

2/21/68 
-14-
Transfers 
Rose L. Arnold, Secretary, Division of Personnel Administration, 
to another budget position in that Division, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $5,937, effective February 25, 1968. 
John I. Barber, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
to a messenger position in the Board Members' area, with an increase 
in basic annual salary from $3,776 to $4,108, effective February 25, 
1968. 
Maternity leave 
Mary Teresa Atchison, Secretary, Division of Bank Operations, 
beginning April 5, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Eugene J. Dolan, Assistant Federal Reserve Examiner, Division of 
Examinations, effective the close of business March 8, 1968. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated February 16, 
^968, requesting authorization to employ James C. Smith, retired 
Assistant Director of that Division, as a consultant for a few days, 
he should be available, in connection with the forthcoming con-
erence of System personnel concerned with the protection function, 
w i
t h compensation at the rate of $50 per day for each day worked. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
-^ointments 
Jean S. Bell as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Administration 
basic annual salary at the rate of $4,995, effective the date of 
e n
trance upon duty. 
'JmYti * m 
Teresita Q. Eakin as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Adminis-
r
ation, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,615, effective the 
t e
 of entrance upon duty. 
Wi , Lucille E. Hoft as Secretary, Division of Personnel Administration 
e 
h basic annual salary at the rate of $5,565, effective the date of 
n
trance upon duty. 

/ J o 
2/21/68 
.15. 
Appointments 
Bedelia M. Hose as Secretary, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,565, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Carol Peppers as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,995, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Advance of sick leave 
* : . .. 
P e a r l
 Jones, Cook (Cafeteria), Division of Administrative Services 
tor the period February 29 through March 1968. 
Permission to engage in outside activities 
Ruth K. Bradford, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
statistics, to work for a local theater on a part-time basis. 
Nathan L. Hunter, Driver, Division of Administrative Services, 
to work for a local store on a part-time basis. 
On February 20 and 21, 1968, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by the 
following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item num-
bers indicated: 
-^February 20, 1968 
^ L t h e Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
^ t t e r to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
a
H f o r n i a , approving the establishment of a 
D r
anch in Napa. 
better to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
p l 0 n regarding the application of State Bank of 
^radise, Paradise, Pennsylvania, for continua-
of deposit insurance after withdrawal from 
e
®bership in the Federal Reserve System. 
10 

2/21/68 
-16-
W ' -
On February 21, 1968 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
approving the designation of Evelyn W. Parker, 
Richard B. Reeves, Margaret D. McCombs, and 
Laura B. Sides as special assistant examiners. 
_the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
* 
j 
Letter to attorneys for The Moody Foundation, 
Galveston, Texas, granting an extension of 
time until April 26, 1968, for the Foundation 
to register as a bank holding company. 
: d*-u>t.,» • • 
Iteun .y' vj 
,'v.' 
hc-izs. j ;; 
; 
. •. Ztti.. 
'>: , j 
^ h 
id t 
:< .. 
; : 
Item No 
11 
12 
Secretary 
. <•*•» 
; 
• , . 
c - 
; 
: 1 
a J 
Cm 
-'•Ui^is 
•'-^ttou : 

of GOw •. 
^ r e s S - V 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D, 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
2/21/68 
A O O R E 9 S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 21, 1968. 
Provident National Bank, 
P. 0. Box 7648, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
C:.. ... 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Provident National Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
located in Deltec House on the corner of Marlborough and Cumberland 
Streets, Nassau, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to 
the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M . 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before March 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall 
he deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will 
automatically terminate on that date. Please inform the Board 
°f Governors, through the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, when 
the branch is open for business. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign 
branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
°f allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
Accordingly, the foregoing permission is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign 
loans and investments of your bank, will not cause the total of such 
loans and investments to exceed the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect and that due consid-
Nation is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF GDVERNDR5 
item No. 2 
• F T H E 
2 / 2 1 / 6 8 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 21, 1968. 
International Banking Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 20, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold additional shares in Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique 
Occidentale ("BIAO
11
), Paris, France, at a cost of approximately 
US§1,790,686, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. In this connection, the Board also 
approves the purchase and holding of shares of BIAO in excess of 
15 per cent of your Corporation^ capital and surplus. 
The above consent is granted on the condition that the 
holdings of your Corporation shall not exceed 49 per cent of the 
outstanding shares of BIAO and subject to the conditions set forth 
in the Board
!
s letter of July 23, 1964, as modified by its letters 
of September 4th and 29th, 1964. 
In granting this consent, the Board has taken into account 
the fact that your application antedated the balance-of-payments 
measures announced on January 1, 1968. The consent is given with 
the understanding that the investment now being approved, combined 
with other foreign loans and investments of your Corporation, will 
not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect and that due consideration is being given to the 
Priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

* > • ri 
< O / 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
z/n/fs"
 
3 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
February 21, 1968 
WAAGE - NEW YORK 
V _ • 
Board approves granting of a loan or loans on gold up to 
a total of $15 million by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to 
the Central Bank of the Philippines on the terms described in your 
wire of February 15 and subject to the conditions outlined. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 
The terms and conditions were as follows: 
Such loan or loans (1) would be made up to 
98 per cent of the value of gold bars set 
aside in the vaults of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, as agent of the New 
York Bank, under pledge to the latter; (2) 
would mature in three months with option to 
repay at any time before maturity, advances 
and repayments to be made in multiples of 
$1 million; (3) would bear interest at the 
discount rate of the New York Bank in effect 
on the date on which such loan or loans were 
made; and (4) could be requested and made at 
any time during a period of 30 days beginning 
with the date of the Central Bank's acceptance 
of the New York Bank's terms and conditions. 
(The usual participation in any such loan or 
loans would be offered to the other Federal 
Reserve Banks.) 

BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
item No. 4 
D F - T H E 
2 / 2 1 / 6 8 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 21, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Sears Bank and Trust Company, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60624 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, the Board of Governors, 
acting under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, grants permission to the Sears Bank and Trust 
Company to maintain the same reserves against deposits 
as are required to be maintained by member banks not in 
reserve cities, effective with the first biweekly reserve 
computation period beginning after the date of this 
letter. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such 
permission is subject to revocation by the Board of 
Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

.1 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No 
2/21/68 
<7 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 21, 1968 
M r . Hugh D . Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear M r . Galusha: 
In reference to M r . Strothman's letter of January 19, 
1968, regarding a proposal by the Helena Branch to improve the 
basic hospital-surgical coverage, the Board has considered these 
improvements and feels they are warranted, especially at the 
nominal additional cost. These changes should put the Branch 
coverage more in line with community practice and with the 
benefits at other Reserve Banks and branches. We understand 
that the new benefits will become effective March 15, 1968. 
Therefore, the Board of Governors approves the pro-
posed program and the payment of two-thirds of the premium costs 
for officers and employees at the Helena Branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

' 7 1 0 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
T<_ 
KT 
1 
Item No. 6 
a
F
T
H
E
 
2/21/68 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 23, 1968 
Federal Communications Commission, 
Pennsylvania Avenue between 12th & 13th, N.W., 
Washington, D. C. 
Re: Docket No. 16979 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
(herein referred to as the "Federal Reserve Board"), for itself 
and in behalf of the Federal Reserve Banks (herein referred to 
collectively as the "Reserve Banks"), submits the following in 
response to the Commission's Notice of Inquiry released 
November 10, 1966 (31 F.R. 14752-14755), and supplements and 
amendments thereto, concerning the "Interdependence of Computer 
and Communication Services and Facilities". 
1. The Federal Reserve System was created by the 
Congress to have broad responsibilities in matters pertaining 
to banking, credit,and m o n e y r 
The 12 regional Federal Reserve 
Banks and their 24 branches are operated for public purposes 
subject to the general supervision and regulation of the Board 
of Governors, an independent establishment of government. Almost 
1/ The System was established under an Act of Congress known as the 
"Federal Reserve Act", approved December 23, 1913 (38 Stat. 251), as 
amended and supplemented. 

-2-
6,100 private commercial banks are members of the Federal Reserve 
System, subject to regulation and supervision by the Board and the 
Federal Reserve Banks and receiving services from the Reserve Banks. 
These member banks account for over 80 per cent of all commercial 
bank deposits in the United States. 
2. The most important function which has been delegated 
to the Federal Reserve by the Congress is the determination and 
administration of monetary policy, a major component of the Govern-
ment's over-all economic growth and stabilization policies. Exercise 
of this responsibility is carried out mainly under the Federal 
Reserved statutory authority to review and determine the discount 
rate on borrowings by member banks, to change reserve requirements 
against deposits of member banks, to buy and sell Government securities 
in the open market, to establish maximum rates of interest that member 
banks may pay on time and savings deposits, and to prescribe margin 
requirements relating to the purchasing or carrying of certain 
securities. 
3. In addition, the Federal Reserve performs a variety of 
other public service functions in the monetary area. It exercises 
broad powers in the field of bank supervision with a view to fostering 
a
 sound, responsive, and well managed banking system. These functions, 
among others, include issuing and enforcing of supervisory regulations, 
a c
ting on applications for mergers, holding company acquisitions, and 
o 1 x 1 ITtti 
like, and making periodic examinations of State member banks. 

4. The Federal Reserve also performs a variety of 
service functions essential to the maintenance of an efficient 
and reliable payments system. These functions, in which a large 
number of System employees are engaged, include the holding and 
surveillance of the required reserve balances of member banks, 
issuing and distributing currency, clearing and collecting checks 
and other items, and making wire transfers of funds. Finally, 
the Reserve Banks carry the principal checking account of the U . S. 
Treasury and perform a variety of fiscal agency functions for the 
Government, including issuance and redemption of debt and adminis-
tration of the V-loan guarantee program (for defense production 
loans). 
5. Each member bank is required by the Federal Reserve 
Act to maintain a reserve account at a Federal Reserve Bank. The 
balance in this account, together with the currency and coin held 
by the commercial member bank, must equal at least the required 
reserves for that bank. The required amount is specified by law 
and regulation as a percentage of the demand and the time and 
savings deposits maintained on the bank's books. The balance 
carried with the Reserve Bank may be used as a clearing account 
to which clearings can be charged or credited. The total reserve 
balances at the Federal Reserve Banks at year end were about $21 
billion. 
6. The Federal Reserve System maintains an 81-D-l TTY 
communications network linking all Federal Reserve offices and the 

-4-
743 
Treasury Department. This network is used to transfer funds and 
U . S. Government securities by wire and to transmit data and adminis-
trative messages. In recent years the number of money transfers 
carried over the 81-D-l TTY communications network has risen at the 
rate of about 8 to 9 per cent per year. The system is overtaxed at 
peak hours at present and will be replaced in 1970 by a communications 
network with the capacity, through modular expansion, to handle a 
vastly increased volume of money transfers, plus modest increases 
in Government securities transfers, economic data,and administrative 
traffic. 
7. The commercial banking system of the United States is 
made up of 4,758 national banks (all members of the Federal Reserve 
System), 1,315 State member banks, and 7,654 nonmember State banks. 
The number of checks and other demand items drawn on or payable by or 
through these institutions totaled about 17 billion in 1967. In 
recent years, the number of check transactions has risen at the rate 
°f about 7 per cent per year. 
During 1967, the 12 Reserve Banks handled over 5 billion 
checks and other demand items for collection, thus participating in 
the collection of about one-third of the total checks written. For 
several years, the Federal Reserve System and the commercial banks 
have been working toward a more expeditious system for processing of 
checks. These efforts have included magnetic ink character recogni-
tion (MICR), high speed computerized sorting and listing of checks 

715 
-5-
and other cash items, more efficient and effective methods of 
: < : '. > 
r 
transporting and routing checks and, of course, the active 
investigation of electronic processing and transmission of check 
information. 
8. To deal with check volume, in being and in prospect, 
it appears essential that the banking system must avail itself of 
computerized communications systems so that high speed impulses 
will replace the slow and cumbersome handling and shipment of paper 
between banks in the collection chain. In the initial stages of 
such a system, communications facilities and electronic data pro-
cessing systems may continue as relatively separate functions. 
The banking system (including the Federal Reserve) is composed of 
many units of varying sizes. It is likely, therefore, that at least 
some of these units will, in the near future, find it economically 
desirable to combine the communications switching function and the 
data processing function into a single computer complex. 
Because of its pivotal position in the banking system, 
the Federal Reserve is prepared to use its communications system 
a
nd its data processing systems to facilitate interbank money trans-
fers and to accomplish the resulting settlements in the reserve 
accounts kept at the Federal Reserve Banks. To accomplish this task 
computer-communications facilities operating in and between commercial 
_ > •. 
. 
c 
> 
' 
. 
b
anks will, of necessity, have to interface with the Federal Reserve 
computer-communications facilities. 

-6-
715 
9. One type of system providing for such interface 
could involve the use of terminal devices in commercial banks 
linked to switching and/or processing computers in each Reserve 
Bank. The manipulation of a transferor bank's terminal would 
initiate appropriate entries in the reserve accounts of itself 
and of the transferee bank on the books of their respective 
Reserve Bank, and culminate in a transfer of information to a 
terminal in the transferee bank. It is hoped that the develop-
ment of such a system would not be inhibited by existing tariff 
restrictions concerning off-line entry into and off-line escape 
from a private or dedicated network. 
10. A further question that might arise in such a 
system is whether the use of "foreign devices" on communications 
lines supplied by common carriers would be in violation of exist-
ing tariffs. While such a system and such terminals may not be 
in existence for some time, it is desirable that terminals to be 
developed not be required to have uniformity beyond the minimum 
operating characteristics necessary for linkage with the system. 
11. An electronic funds transfer system must insure 
the security of the system and prevent loss from fraud. The 
communications industry has heretofore been primarily concerned 
with the security of communication-linked computer systems to 
Prevent the interception of information. An electronic funds 
transfer system would, of course, face this problem, but more 

/ 4 o 
-7-
importantly, it must provide protections against attempts to 
initiate bogus transactions that would deprive system account-
holders of their funds. 
12. Another question is the degree to which the 
Federal Reserve System may be subject to regulations affecting 
the use of merged communications lines and computer facilities. 
Can computers and communications be inextricably linked for our 
use, or must they be divided for separate consideration in 
determining the extent to which each may be a proper subject 
for regulation of our use? 
13. The System believes that whatever regulatory 
scheme is evolved should permit the establishment and continuance 
Of an efficient payments mechanism which will enable the public 
to benefit in their financial transactions from advances which 
have taken place and which will take place in the communications 
and electronic industries. This can be done if the Federal Reserve 
and the commercial banks have the opportunity, with the full use 
of available technology, to assemble and use lines, terminals, 
computers, and other devices in a flexible manner commensurate with 
the pursuit of that objective. 
14. Attached hereto and made part hereof are copies of 
the following: 
(a) as "Exhibit A", pages 15 through 27 of the 
Federal Reserve Board publication entitled "The Federal Reserve 
System -- Purposes and Functions", describing the structure of the 

Federal Reserve System; (b) as "Exhibit B", "Regulation J of the 
Federal Reserve Board, entitled "Collection of Checks and Other 
Items by Federal Reserve Banks", revised September 1, 1967; and 
(c) as "Exhibit C", "Operating Circular No. 10" of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, entitled "Transfer of Funds", revised 
effective September 5, 1967, being typical of circulars issued by 
** - 
• 
:
• 
the Reserve Banks relating to that subject. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
Item No. 7 
2/21/68 
For release in morning papers, 
Wednesday, February 28, 1968. 
February 27, 1968. 
The Federal Reserve System announced today another step 
toward adapting its operations to take advantage of the latest 
developments in data processing and transmission technology. 
It is 
^placing its 15-year old nationwide leased wire network for the 
transfer of money, securities and economic data with a completely 
computerized system. 
Earlier steps by the System along the same lines include 
the conversion of its entire check-handling activities to electronic 
in order to expedite--and cut the cost of--the processes 
b
V uhlch the Federal Reserve Banks each day clear millions of checks 
that are processible on that equipment. 
The new computerized communications system, which will 
transmit money and data at speeds up to 40 times that of the present 
t
e
letypewriter-actuated system, is scheduled to begin operating in 
N
°vember 1969. 
The volume capacity of the computerized network to be 
in 
s t
alled initially will be 10 to 12 times that of the present system, 
The specifications call for a communications system capable of a sub-
Sec
luent expansion sufficient to accommodate most intercity transfers 
of 
the 
m
oney from one checking account to another. In its initial phase, 
new network will not only handle the present traffic more 

"2- 
743 
efficiently but also transmit a large volume of economic and banking 
data and, in addition, permit a vastly expanded system of fund trans-
fers. The average daily number of transfers is presently about 21,500 
and the average daily dollar volume of such transfers is in excess of 
$26 billion. 
The new installation—like the present wire system--will 
at the outset link together in one communications network the 
Washington offices of the Board of Governors, the United States Treasury, 
and the 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks and their 24 branches spanning 
the entire country. 
The plans contemplate the subsequent linkage of computer-
communications facilities operated by or on behalf of commercial banks, 
of which some 6,000 are members of the Federal Reserve System. This 
w
ill enable a vastly expanded volume of wire transfers of funds directly 
from one bank to another in supplement of--and perhaps, eventually, in 
substitute for or replacement of--the huge and rapidly growing volume 
°f transfers of money by check. 
Specifications detailing performance requirements for the 
n
ew network have gone out to equipment manufacturers or suppliers. 
Submissions of proposals and of designs for a computer hookup meeting 
those requirements have been invited preliminary to the negotiation of 
a
 contract. 
The specifications call for a "modular" communication 
s
y3tem--composed of independently operating segments—so that multiple 
U r
Uts can subsequently be installed when and where needed in line with 
growth in requirements. 

Meanwhile, a statement outlining the Federal Reserve's 
plans has been filed with the Federal Communications Commission pursuant 
to the FCC's Notice of Inquiry Concerning the Interdependence of 
Computer and Communication Services and Facilities. The statement urges 
that in any regulatory measures or recommendations the FCC may adopt, 
ample allowance be made for further development of the computerized 
funds transfer system to "enable the public to benefit in their financial 
transactions from advances which have taken place and which will take 
Place in the communications and electronic industries." 
"This can be done," the statement said, "if the Federal 
Reserve and the commercial banks have the opportunity, with the full 
u
se of available technology, to assemble and use lines, terminals, 
computers, and other devices in a flexible manner commensurate with 
t
he pursuit of that objective." 
The Federal Reserve Banks are presently processing on their 
computer equipment each business day about 21,4 million checks totaling 
$8.1 billion. The efficiency of the existing system is limited, however, 
b y 
t
^e necessity of repeated parallel physical handlings, sortings and 
s
hlpments of checks even though the accounting is done electronically. 

751 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 8 
• F T H E 
2 / 2 1 / 6 8 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 21, 1968 
Mr. James W . Bates, Secretary, 
The Cleveland Trust Company, 
916 Euclid Avenue, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Bates: 
Reference is made to your letters of January 18, 1968, and 
January 31, 1968, with enclosures, stating the intention of The Cleveland 
Trust Company to omit certain proposals submitted by Edward C. Calvert, a 
stockholder, for inclusion in the bank's proxy material relating to its 
1968 annual meeting of shareholders. 
Since section 206.5(k) of Federal Reserve Regulation F, which 
sets forth the requirements for inclusion of shareholders' proposals in 
proxy material, was not adopted until December 1, 1967, to be effective 
December 31, 1967, the Board does not believe that Mr. Calvert
f
s failure, 
by a few days, to meet the 60-day advance submission period set forth in 
the regulation should be availed of by the bank as a reason for omitting 
the proposals included with his letter dated December 20, 1967. The Board 
has no objection, however, to the bank's omission of the proposals sub-
mitted with M r . Calvert's letter of January 26, 1968, for the reason that 
they were not timely submitted. 
The Board believes that the proposal and supporting statement 
submitted with the December 20, 1967 letter, should be viewed as two 
independent resolutions and considered separately. The Board has con-
cluded that the first, which directs the Board of Directors to consider 
appointing a bank other than itself as trustee of its employees' pension 
fund, is not a matter relating to the conduct of the ordinary business 
operations of the bank within the purview of section 206.5(k)(3)(ii) of 
Regulation F. Accordingly, the Board believes that this resolution and 
the first three sentences of the supporting statement may not properly 
be omitted from management's proxy material. 

Mr. James W . Bates 
-2-
On the other hand, the Board would not object to omission of 
the second resolution - that is, the resolution pertaining to stockholders
1 
inspection of a list of equity securities held by the bank as trustee of 
its employees' pension fund - in reliance upon the opinion of bank's 
counsel that to make available to stockholders a list of assets held in 
such a trust account would constitute a violation of the bank's duty as 
fiduciary. The Board's position on this matter should not be construed 
as acquiescence or agreement by the Board with the aforesaid opinion of 
counsel, which opinion is based on a recently amended section of the Ohio 
Revised Code; the interpretation of that statutory provision is primarily 
a matter for a court of competent jurisdiction. 
A copy of this letter is being sent to Mr. Calvert. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal. 
Assistant Secretary. 

r— /* 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
2/21/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
establishment of a branch by United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, in the vicinity of the intersection of Trancas and 
Jeffer son Streets, Napa, California, provided the branch is estab-
lished within one year from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community, and 
that establishment of the branch will not tend to create an unde-
sirable competitive situation. As indicated in a letter to you 
dated January 24, 1968, approving a branch in Fairfield, California, 
it is urged that careful consideration be given to all means to 
strengthen your bank's capital position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

r— /* 
cow' 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
2/21/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 21, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of February 15, 1968, 
concerning the application of State Bank of Paradise, Paradise, 
Pennsylvania, for continuance of deposit insurance after with-
drawal from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations has stated, on behalf of the Board of Governors, 
that there have been no corrective programs urged upon the bank, 
or agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, and 
there are no programs that the Director would advise be incorporated 
as conditions of admitting the bank to membership in the Corporation 
as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

S.hJ 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
item No. 11 
O F T H E 
2 / 2 1 / 6 8 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
CORRESPONDENCE 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 23, 1968 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
232IS 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of February 16, 1968, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
designation of each of the following employees as a 
special assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond: 
Mrs. Evelyn W . Parker 
Mrs. Margaret D. McCombs 
Richard B. Reeves 
Mrs. Laura B. Sides 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

c o p y 
7 5 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS 
DALLAS. TEXAS 
75222 
Item No. 12 
2/21/68 
February 21, 19&-
Mr. Louis J. Dibrell, Esq. 
Dibrell, Dibrell 4 Oreer 
American Bational Building 
Galveston, Texas T7550 
Re: The Moody Foundation 
Deer Mr. Dibrell: 
This refers to the request contained in your letter 
of February 20, i960, for an additional extension of sixty days 
from February 26, 1968, for the registration of The Moody Founda-
tion as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company 
Act as wended* 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under dele-
gated authority, this Bank has approved your request for an 
extension of time for registration. The Moody Foundation vill 
be allowed until April 26, 1968, within which to register with 
the Board of Governors in accordance with the requirements of 
section 5 of the Act* 
Sincerely, 
Thorn* B. Sullivan 
Vice President 
bcc: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
