MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 26, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 26, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Marinaccio of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Maguire and Ryan of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sloane of the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York 
Mr. Krause of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago 
Bank of Lansing. A task force composed of Messrs. Sloane, 
Marinaccio, Ryan, and Krause had reviewed the condition and manage-
ment practices of Bank of Lansing, Lansing, Michigan, in light of the 
report of examination of the bank as of October 6, 1969, and various 
other materials in the Board's files. On the basis of that review, 

358 
3/26/70 
-2-
the findings of which were set forth in a memorandum dated March 13, 
1970, the task force concluded that Bank of Lansing had engaged in 
unsafe and unsound practices and had violated a condition of member-
ship imposed by the Board. The task force recommended that the Board, 
after giving the required notification to the Michigan State bank 
supervisory authority, and if that authority did not take corrective 
action, institute proceedings under Title II of the Financial Institu-
tions Supervisory Act of 1966. 
Submitted with the memorandum was a proposed notice of charges 
that would list specific complaints and set a date on which a hearing 
would be held for the purpose of taking evidence and determining 
whether a cease and desist order should be issued or other action 
taken. 
Mr. 0'Connell, in summarizing the issues before the Board, 
reviewed in detail the specific charges proposed to be made against 
Bank of Lansing (a "Parsons Group" bank). The unsafe and unsound 
banking practices related, among other things, to the bank's low 
capital level, the over-extended position of the loan portfolio, 
illiquidity of the investment portfolio, excessive payment of divi-
dends, and excessive fees paid under the management contract with 
COMAC. 
Mr. 01Connell then commented on procedural aspects of action 
such as recommended by the task force. He pointed out that the pro-
ceedings, including preparation of the case, the securing of expert 

974 
3/26/70 
-3-
witnesses, and actual hearing time, might extend over a period of a 
year or more. There was the strong possibility that, even though a 
private hearing was held, word might leak out. 
Mr. O'Connell also discussed possible alternative courses of 
action, including (1) the sending of a letter to Bank of Lansing 
demanding that certain specified actions be taken within a prescribed 
period of time and requiring a written acknowledgment, signed by all 
of the bank's directors, agreeing to comply with those conditions, 
with a notice of charges to be issued on a stated date if the Board's 
conditions had not been met; (2) requesting the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation to consider termination of insurance coverage 
under section 8(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; (3) cutting 
off or restricting access by Bank of Lansing to the discount window; 
or (4) determining that on the basis of the evidence presented no 
action was necessary at this time. 
Initial comments by several Board members indicated a prefer-
ence for proceeding in a manner most likely to obtain prompt and 
effective results, while at the same time minimizing the risks to the 
bank and its depositors involved in public disclosure. It was noted 
that Bank of Lansing's access to the discount window had already been 
restricted administratively by the Chicago Reserve Bank. 
Governor Maisel favored the first alternative procedure out-
lined by Mr. O'Connell, except that he would be inclined to incorpo-
rate in the letter to the bank a statement that a hearing would take 

S60 
3/26/70 
-4-
place on a specified date. The staff could then start immediately to 
prepare the case, particularly in terms of securing expert witnesses. 
In this connection he expressed the view that an expert in the area 
of interest rate risks should be secured, to develop the concept that 
the bank had assumed risks which it had failed to recognize. Also, 
the services of a bond expert should be secured to evaluate the port-
folio. Another matter for review in preparing the case related to 
the status of understandings regarding the sale of additional capital 
such as had been expressed in advising the bank, in 1969, of approval 
of certain branch applications. The question was whether the expres-
sion of such understandings had the effect of establishing a condition 
that should have been met before the branches were opened. 
Governor Brimmer suggested searching also for an expert witness 
on the broad question of bank capitalization. He then inquired whether 
the Board had authority to require Bank of Lansing to terminate its 
contract with COMAC or to reduce its dividends in order to retain 
earnings. 
Staff expressed the view that a requirement for termination 
of contract, unless some illegality was involved, might have to be 
based on a finding of unsafe and unsound banking practices, thus 
necessitating the procedures specified in the Financial Institutions 
Supervisory Act of 1966. In connection with a requirement for cur-
tailment of dividends, attention was called to a practical problem 

3G1 
3/26/70 
-5-
that would be involved, namely, that the prospects for raising addi-
tional capital would be diminished. 
Question was then raised as to the necessity of securing the 
services of an outside hearing examiner if the matter reached the 
stage of a hearing. Reference was made to occasions when there had 
been an apparent lack of broad understanding of economic and financial 
matters on the part of the hearing officer or where proceedings had 
been unduly drawn out. However, the staff suggested that a request to 
the Civil Service Commission in this instance could emphasize the need 
for a well-qualified hearing examiner whose schedule was such that he 
could proceed with the case expeditiously. 
After exploring a number of points relating to legal and pro-
cedural aspects of action along the lines proposed by Governor Maisel, 
Governor Sherrill indicated that he concurred in such an approach. He 
particularly favored the proposal to use to advantage, for purposes of 
preparation, the time between the sending of the letter and the date 
on which a hearing would be held if the Board's specifications were 
not met. 
Chairman Burns noted that this procedure apparently would 
have the advantage of not, in the interim, subjecting the bank's 
depositors to grave risk, and Mr. O'Connell observed that a letter of 
the kind mentioned would have to be drafted carefully and brought back 
to the Board. 

3/26/70 
-6-
Governor Robertson stated that he would like the record to 
show that he had not discussed this case with any member of the task 
force. He then referred to the active attention that had been given 
by the bank supervisory agencies over a period of time to the problems 
involved in the operations of Bank of Lansing and other Parsons Group 
banks, and advanced reasons that had led him to conclude that a cease 
and desist procedure should be followed in this instance. He outlined 
a procedure similar to that proposed by Governor Maisel, but limiting 
to 30 days the time within which Bank of Lansing would be required to 
agree to comply with the Board's specifications, after which a notice 
of charges, previously prepared, would be issued if the requirements 
were not met. 
Governor Robertson also suggested that the Michigan State Bank 
Commissioner might be invited to meet with representatives of the 
Board for the purpose of reviewing the case in detail, and that 
representatives of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the 
Comptroller of the Currency, who had been dealing with other Parsons 
Group institutions, might be invited to sit in. Thus, everyone would 
be made aware of the problem, and it would then be up to the Board to 
take action expeditiously to put the bank in shape unless the State 
supervisor wanted to take action on his own. 
Chairman Burns remarked that the proposed 30-day limit trou-
bled him; he would like to see concrete evidence that the bank was 

3/26/70 
-7-
in fact complying with the Board's explicit and firm request, and a 
somewhat longer time period appealed to him as being more reasonable. 
Governor Mitchell expressed doubt, for reasons that he men-
tioned, whether the terms of the proposed notice of charges could be 
fully substantiated upon thorough analysis, following which comment 
was made that questions of this kind could be reviewed in more detail, 
and in better perspective, after a draft letter was available. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that 
the staff would prepare for Board consideration a draft of letter to 
Bank of Lansing along the lines suggested. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. The Board approved unanimously a 
letter to Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, (copy attached 
a s I t e m No- !)» reaffirming its position with respect to making a 
matter of public information portions of letters reflecting the 
Board's denial of the bank's applications to establish a branch in 
Nassau, Bahamas, and to organize an Edge corporation. 
Members of the staff task force then withdrew and the follow-
ing entered: 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mr. Plotkin of the Legal Division 
Mr. Waller of the Office of the Controller 
Retirement System. With a covering memorandum from the Office 
of the Secretary dated March 20, 1970, there had been distributed a 
letter to the Board from President Galusha dated March 16, 1970. 

3/26/70 
-8-
President Galusha was writing as Chairman of the Joint Board-Presi-
dents' Conference Committee on the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks and the purpose of his letter was to request that the 
President members of the Committee have an opportunity to meet with 
the Board to discuss the funding of Retirement System liabilities. 
As discussed in the letter and reviewed at this meeting by 
Governor Maisel, the problem of investment policy had two parts. As 
to the administration of amounts accumulated to fund liabilities to 
employees presently retired, there did not appear to be any sub-
stantial difference of opinion. Tentatively, at least, it appeared 
that the purchase of annuities for the benefit of the retirees would 
be advantageous. When it came to the funding of future benefits, how-
ever, there was a division of opinion. Some felt that the Federal 
Reserve should not seek to maximize the return on such funds and that, 
as an instrumentality of the Government, it should not invest in 
securities other than those of the U.S. Treasury. Others felt that 
it would be preferable to follow the conventional pattern of funding 
with a balanced portfolio. 
Reasons favoring the former approach had been spelled out by 
Governor Maisel in a memorandum transmitted to President Galusha under 
date of January 26, 1970. (Copies of that memorandum had been made 
available to the Board.) 
At today's meeting Governor Maisel explained his rationale 
further and also discussed some of the arguments against its acceptance 

J O t ) 
3/26/70 
-9-
that had been made by Reserve Bank Presidents. The only decision to 
be made today, he noted, was whether to meet with the Presidents who 
were members of the Joint Committee. 
Governor Maisel also noted that there flowed from the question 
of portfolio policy certain questions with regard to the administra-
tive format of the Retirement System, as pointed out and discussed in 
the letter from President Galusha. 
After supplementary comments by Governor Brimmer, who was also 
a member of the Joint Committee, it was agreed that the Board should 
meet with the President members of the Joint Committee, and the 
Secretary was requested to make the necessary arrangements. 
Members of the staff not concerned with the remaining items 
on the agenda then withdrew from the meeting and the following 
entered: 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Messrs. Keir and Shull, Associate Advisers, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Greenspan, Lynch, and Noble of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Lawrence and Schmidt, and Mrs. Horn of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, Goodfellow, Kline, and 
McAninch, and Miss Greene of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Nassau branches. Letters to American Fletcher National Bank 
and Trust Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, and The Denver United States 

3/26/70 
-10-
National Bank, Denver, Colorado, granting permission for the establish-
ment of branches in Nassau, Bahamas, were approved, Governor Robertson 
dissenting and Governor Brimmer abstaining. Copies of the letters are 
attached as Items 2 and 3, respectively. 
Chase Manhattan. The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, 
denying its request for permission to continue to hold shares of a 
subsidiary, Housing Investment Corporation, after acquisition by the 
latter of stock of Palmer Development Corporation, a corporation 
incorporated under the laws of Puerto Rico for the purpose of purchas-
ing real estate and building hotels and residential units. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Waldorf Bank, Waldorf, 
Maryland, with Citizens Bank and Trust Company of Maryland, Riverdale, 
was approved for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition now existing 
between The Waldorf Bank and Citizens Bank and Trust 
Company of Maryland, Riverdale, and there is potential 
for increased competition through de novo branching. 
Overall, the effect of the proposed merger on competi-
tion would be slightly adverse. 
Wyoming Bancorporat 
ion. Drafts of an order and statement had 
been distributed reflecting the Board's approval on March 19, 1970, of 
the application of Wyoming Bancorporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 

3G7 
3/26/70 
-11-
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of 
Cheyenne National Bank, East Cheyenne National Bank, and First Cheyenne 
State Bank, all of Cheyenne; and Stock Growers' Bank of Wheatland. A 
concurring statement by Governor Robertson had also been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 5, 
along with the concurring statement. 
First Florida Bancorporation. Drafts of orders and a state-
ment reflecting the Board's approval on March 12, 1970, of the appli-
cations of First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire 
shares of The State Bank of Jacksonville and The State Bank of 
Arlington, also in Jacksonville, had been distributed. 
The issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 6. 
Exchange Bancorporation. On January 30, 1970, the Board, 
as then constituted, denied by unanimous vote the application of 
Exchange Bancorporation, Inc., Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Peninsula State Bank, also of Tampa. Prior to the issuance of an 
order and statement, the Department of Justice notified the Board of 
its conclusion that the competitive effect of the proposal would be 
"significantly adverse," and the applicant requested an opportunity 
to submit rebuttal evidence. In a memorandum dated March 16, 1970, 
the Legal Division expressed the view that no new issues had been 

9fJ8 
3/26/70 
-12-
raised and advised that denial of the application continued to be 
recommended by the staff. Attached to the memorandum were a proposed 
order and statement. 
The application was denied, Chairman Burns abstaining, and 
the issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies of 
the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 7. 
Also attached, under Item No. 8, are copies of the order and 
statement reflecting approval by the Board on March 24, 1970, of the 
application of Exchange Bancorporation to acquire shares of Bank of 
Central Florida, Haines City, Florida. 
Merrill Bankshares. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated March 20, 1970, and other pertinent papers, 
including an analysis by the Banking Markets Section of the banking 
structure of Maine, had been distributed in connection with an appli-
cation of Merrill Bankshares Company, Bangor, Maine, to acquire shares 
of the successor by merger to Federal Trust Company, Waterville, Maine. 
The Division recommended denial, as did the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston, on the grounds that the effects of the proposal on concentra-
tion and competition would be adverse and no meaningful benefits to 
convenience and needs were foreseen. However, the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval. It concluded that the competitive 
effects of the proposed acquisition would be only slightly adverse, 
and the convenience and needs factor weighed in favor of approval. 

974 
3/26/70 
-13-
While some potential competition would be eliminated, the proposed 
acquisition was viewed as a favorable development in terms of the 
evolution of the overall banking structure in Maine. 
Governor Mitchell found the analysis of the State banking 
structure persuasive and believed that competition would best be 
served through the formation of additional holding companies. This 
route was open to some of the remaining independent banks, and the 
proposed acquisition by the smallest of the three existing holding 
companies would be a step toward the creation of another strong 
Statewide competitor. 
Governor Daane stated that his evaluation of the convenience 
and needs factor was in line with that of the Banking Markets Section. 
Over time the proposed acquisition should result in better services to 
the public. 
Governor Maisel agreed that the formation of additional hold-
ing companies would be a healthy step. As to the presently proposed 
acquisition, however, other alternatives had greater potential for 
publ ic benefit. This proposal would result in a reduction of banking 
alternatives, and he saw no offsetting factors of sufficient weight to 
warrant approval. 
Governor Brimmer commended the Banking Markets Section for 
moving in the right direction in analyzing the application in terms 
of the State banking structure. However, he did not favor the par-
ticular proposal over possible alternatives. 

t v ' n 
c lj 
3/26/70 
-14-
Governor Sherrill felt that the State of Maine needed a series 
of strong holding company organizations to offer the best choice of 
banking services. The slight overlap of service areas involved in the 
proposed acquisition did not appear to him to be sufficient grounds 
for denial. 
Governor Robertson believed that the anticompetitive factors 
of the proposed acquisition were such as to preclude approval unless 
there was strong support for approval on other grounds. He could see 
no meaningful benefits that would accrue to the public. 
The application was then approved, Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, and Brimmer dissenting, and it was understood that an order 
and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration, along 
with a dissenting statement. Question was raised whether issuance of 
the order and statement should be deferred pending resolution of 
pending litigation related to the merger transaction involving Federal 
Trust Company, but it was the consensus that the documents should be 
issued in the absence of further developments that might suggest a 
different course. 
Emergency credit assistance. In a memorandum dated March 23, 
1970, the staff recommended concurrence in a proposal of the Confer-
ence of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks that the authority 
granted in the Board's letter of December 24, 1969, for making emer-
gency loans to nonmember depositary institutions be extended beyond 

974 
3/26/70 
-15-
the existing termination date of April 1, 1970. Attached was a pro-
posed telegram to the Federal Reserve Banks that would extend the 
authority to August 1, 1970. 
The extension of the termination date was approved unanimously; 
a copy of the telegram sent to the Reserve Banks is attached as 
Item No. 9. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Hexter, Solomon, O'Connell, and Leavitt then withdrew from the meeting. 
Ascertainment of availability of information. Mr. Solomon 
reported interest expressed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 
ascertaining the availability of certain documents at the Valley Bank 
of Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada, the existence of which the bank had 
reportedly denied. The FBI had inquired whether the Federal Reserve 
Bank examiners would report on the availability of such documents in 
connection with the next examination of the member bank. 
Discussion of the request developed a consensus that the FBI 
preferably should subpo ena the documents in question and, if they were 
not made available, that it would then not be inappropriate to ask the 
Reserve Bank examiners to watch for the documents at the time of the 
next examination of the member bank, to the extent that the documents 
were of the kind that would normally come under scrutiny in the usual 
examination process. 

*J it 
3/26/70 
-16-
It was understood that Mr. Solomon would advise the FBI along 
those lines. 
(Note: A copy of the letter on this subject subsequently 
sent to the San Francisco Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 10.) 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland and Kenyon then 
withdrew and Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, joined the meeting. 
Executive Schedule positions. In a memorandum of March 9, 
1970, addressed to the Heads of Executive Departments and Establish-
ments, the Director of the Budget had requested certain information 
and recommendations regarding Executive Schedule positions. The 
question at issue was whether the reply should include a recommenda-
tion that consideration be given to changing the position of Chairman 
of the Board of Governors from Level II of the Executive Schedule to 
Level I. 
After Governor Sherrill had outlined reasons that might be 
cited in favor of making such a recommendation at this time, Chairman 
Burns said it had been his view initially that such a recommendation 
would be appropriate, provided the reallocation of the position would 
affect his successor rather than himself. He understood, however, that 
this might present legal difficulties. In any event, he had now con-
cluded on further reflection, for reasons he described, that this 
would not be an appropriate time to make such a recommendation, even 
though he believed the proposal was inherently sound and might merit 
reconsideration within a year or so. 

3/26/70 
-17-
Governor Robertson summarized the history of the salaries of 
the Chairmen and other members of the Board of Governors in relation 
to salary levels of Cabinet positions and expressed the view that, as 
in the case of the Supereme Court, it would be undesirable for too 
large a differential to exist between the salaries of the Chairman and 
other members of the Board. He doubted whether it was appropriate for 
the Board itself to make recommendations in this regard, as contrasted 
with recommendations by the President or actions by the Congress. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that the position of the 
Chairman should properly be assigned to Level I, but he agreed that 
this might not be an opportune time to press the case unilaterally. 
It was also his view that the positions of the other members of the 
Board should be reallocated to Level II along with some of the other 
positions currently allocated to Level III. 
Governor Maisel indicated that he would be willing to defer 
any recommendation for reasons Chairman Burns had mentioned. Aside 
from the question of timing, he had not thought the matter through 
carefully, but he tended to think the main question was one of 
relative status. 
Governor Brimmer referred to a memorandum that had been pre-
pared by the Personnel Director at his suggestion and had been dis-
tributed to the Board members concerning the history of discussions of 
the status of Board members' positions. He recalled that several 

974 
3/26/70 
-18-
years ago this question appeared to have been related to the question 
of tenure of the Chairman and Vice Chairman, in particular whether 
their terms should be coterminous with the term of office of the 
President. He also noted that a reassignment of the Chairman's posi-
tion from Level II to Level I would not automatically imply full 
equality with members of the Cabinet. 
There followed some discussion of protocol during which Chair-
man Burns said that this matter had been resolved in his own case but 
that he was desirous of having it reconsidered from the standpoint of 
the position rather than the individual involved. 
There was also some discussion of the current language of the 
law in terms of the authority of the President to reallocate positions 
of Board members in the Executive Schedule. 
Chairman Burns summarized by saying that it was understood 
that no recommendation would be made at the moment, but that today's 
discussion would be borne in mind in considering plans for the future. 
Accordingly, approval was given to a reply to the Director of the Bud-
get in the form attached as Item No. 11. 
Institutional investors study. For reasons described by 
Governor Sherrill, it was agreed to contribute without charge to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission, in connection with its study of 
institutional investors, time on the Board's computer having a value 

1.20 
3/26/70 
-19-
of about $8,000 on an out-of-pocket basis and considerably more 
according to the basis on which it was being planned that computer 
time might be offered to other agencies. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
W A S H I N G T O N , [3. C . 
2 0 S 5 I 
O F T H E 
Item No. 1 
3/26/70 
March 26, 1970 
Mr. John E. Thompson, 
President, 
Bank of the Commonwealth, 
719 Griswold Street, 
Detroit, Michigan 48231. 
Dear Mr. Thompson: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 23, 1.970, in 
which you request that the reasons for the Board's denial of your 
applications to form an Edge Act corporation and to establish a 
branch in Nassau, The Bahamas, be removed immediately from public 
access. 
Your letter states your feeling that inferences which may 
be drawn from portions of the letters available for public inspection 
could undermine public confidence in the Bank. You also state that 
if public confidence in the Bank is undermined, this could cause 
irreparable damage to the Bank, its depositors and shareholders with 
the concommitant adverse affect upon the ability of the Bank to en-
large its capital base and hold and attract deposits. 
At the time the applications were denied, the Board also 
decided to make available in its public information files a sharply 
edited version of the March 12 letters of denial sent to your bank. 
The detailed reasons for the Board's action were contained in the 
third and fourth paragraphs of each letter and these sections were 
deleted before the letters were made available to the public. Only 
the first, second and final paragraphs of each letter were available, 
upon request, in our public information file. 
The second paragraph of the letters spells out the policy 
considerations the Board must take into account in determining 
whether to approve or deny applications of these types. The final 
paragraph relates the Bank of the Commonwealth to those policy con-
siderations in general terms without spelling out the detailed 
reasons for the Board's actions. 

Mr. John E. Thompson 
-2-
1.22 
The Board has carefully considered your March 23 request 
and has reaffirmed its earlier determination to place the first, 
second and final paragraphs of each denial letter in its public 
information file. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, </ 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D 
O
F 
G D V E R N D R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
3/26/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 26, 1970 
American Fletcher National 
Bank and Trust Company, 
101 Monument Circle, 
Indianapolis, Indiana. 
46204 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to American Fletcher National Bank and 
Trust Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch 
in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such branch sub-
ject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. In view of the unusual character of 
this operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to 
continuing special observation and review by the Board and after 
due notice may be withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission 
is also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and 
will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 

' 
kJ i » J 
American Fletcher National 
Bank and Trust Company 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Sec-
tion 213.7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continue to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discour-
age deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United 
States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

25 
B D A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 10 
3/26/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
K l r ^ . 
March 26, 1970. 
The Denver United States 
National Bank, 
Denver U.S. Center, 
17th and Broadway, 
Denver, Colorado. 80217 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to The Denver United States National Bank, 
Denver, Colorado, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. In view of the special character of 
this operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to 
continuing observation and review by the Board and after due 
notice may be withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission is 
also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office 
and will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
shall.be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

The Denver United States 
National Bank 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subjcct to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Sec-
tion 213.7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R B 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/26/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 26, 1970. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letters of August 14 and 
December 1, 1969, requesting permission for your Corporation ("CMOBC") 
to continue to hold the shares of Housing Investment Corporation 
("HIC") after HIC acquires up to 90 per cent of the shares of Palmer 
Development Corporation ("Palmer"), Santurce, Puerto Rico. 
Edge Corporations are organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act for the purpose of engaging in international 
or foreign banking or other international or foreign financial oper-
ations. The acquisition by an Edge Corporation of control of a 
corporation engaged in a nonfinancial business normally would re-
fl ect an operation or management activity other than banking or 
financing. Accordingly, it is the Board's policy not to grant 
consent to the acquisition by an Edge Corporation of a controlling 
interest in a nonfinancial business except in rare instances where 
the circumstances of some foreign banking or financial operation 
warrant. 
According to the information furnished, Palmer has been 
formed to develop property in Palmer, Puerto Rico, as a tourist 
complex, and would be engaged in a business other than banking or 
financing. You have further stated that the sale of the project 
is contemplated once the project is at a stage to obtain an advan-
tageous offer and that it is not the intention of HIC to operate 
the completed project as an owner. You have further contended that 
ownership of real estate development companies such as Palmer is 
usual in the business of banking and financing in Puerto Rico and, 
as such, would be permissible to an Edge Corporation under the pro-
vision of Section 25(a) permitting Corporations "to exercise such 
powers . . . as may be usual in the determination of the Board 
• . . in connection with the transaction of the business of banking 

983 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
or other financial operations in the countries, colonies, dependencies, 
or possessions in which it shall transact business and not inconsist-
ent with the powers specifically granted herein." 
The Board has carefully considered the foregoing, and the 
other materials submitted in support of your application, to deter-
mine whether an exception to the policy stated in the second para-
graph of this letter would be warranted. In so doing, the Board has 
noted particularly HIC's proposed role in operating and managing 
Palmer's activities, activities which include the acquisition of 
land, the planning of a real estate complex, supervision of the con-
struction of the development, and the subsequent sale or lease of 
the development components to third parties. Among other things, 
it has been noted also that although, as indicated above, it is not 
the intention of HIC to operate the completed project as an owner, 
the proposal is without any specific time limitation and, there-
fore, open-ended. While HIC would also be involved in the financing 
or arranging of the financing for the project, HIC would fundamen-
tally be in the business of real estate development, a nonfinancial 
activity. 
In the circumstances and on the basis of its understanding 
of the information submitted, the Board does not believe that the 
activity in question is appropriate for either an Edge Corporation 
or its subsidiary. The fact that some local institutions may have 
wholly-owned subsidiaries or associated companies which invest in 
real estate and improve the same for disposal in mortgage transac-
tions, as indicated by you, would not necessarily be determinative 
m the disposition of your proposal. Accordingly, the Board has 
concluded that an exception to its policy is not warranted and has 
denied your request. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

I 
884 
Item No. 5 
3/26/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
WYOMING BANCORPORATION, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
approval of action to become a bank 
folding company through the acquisition 
°f 30 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Cheyenne National Bank, 
Cheyenne; East Cheyenne National Bank, 
Cheyenne; First Cheyenne State Bank, 
Cheyenne; and Stock Growers1 Bank of 
Wheatland, Wheatland, all in Wyoming. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1342 
(a)(l)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 
222.3(a)), an application by Wyoming Bancorporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant would become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of Cheyenne National Bank, Cheyenne; East Cheyenne 

orjr-
-2-
National Bank, Cheyenne; First Cheyenne State Bank, Cheyenne; and 
Stock Growers' Bank of Wheatland, Wheatland, all in Wyoming. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the Wyoming State Examiner, and requested their 
views and recommendations. The Comptroller recommended approval, 
and the State Examiner indicated that he had no objection to consumma-
tion of the proposal. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on November 8, 1969 (34 Federal Register 18107), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit 
comments and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A 
copy of the application was forwarded to the United States Department 
of Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired and all those received have been considered by 
the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 

o 
-3-
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 26» 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
80 

1.387 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
'•V 
APPLICATION BY 
WYOMING BANCORPORATION, CHEYENNE, WYOMING, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Wyoming Bancorporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming ("Applicant"), has 
applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), for prior approval 
of action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Cheyenne National Bank, Cheyenne 
("Cheyenne National"); East Cheyenne National Bank, Cheyenne ("East Bank"); 
First Cheyenne State Bank, Cheyenne ("State Bank"); and Stock Growers' Bank 
of Wheatland, Wheatland ("Wheatland Bank"), all in Wyoming. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, written notice of receipt of the 
application was given to the Comptroller of the Currency and to the Wyoming 
State Examiner, and their views and recommendations were requested. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application, and the State Examiner 
responded that he had no objection. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly 
or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or 

1.388 
- 2 -
to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United 
States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition the effect of 
which, in any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen compe-
tition or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would 
be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. In each case the Board is re-
quired to take into consideration the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
1/ 
banking organizations in Wyoming control about half 
the deposits in the 
State. Two out-of-State holding companies, one of which is the State's 
largest banking organization, control four of the State's 70 banks, but are 
prohibited by the Act from acquiring additional Wyoming banks. Consummation 
of the proposal would create the first Wyoming-based bank holding company and 
would make Applicant the State's fourth largest banking organization, con-
trolling 4.5 per cent of total State deposits. 
The four proposed subsidiaries are closely related through common 
ownership and control. Cheyenne National ($16.6 million deposits) is the 
smallest of three banks in downtown Cheyenne, which is in Laramie County, 
Wyoming. In 1963, controlling stockholders of Cheyenne National organized 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969. 

S89 
-3-
East Bank ($7.3 million deposits), which is located two miles east of the 
doxmtown area. Stockholders owning 91 per cent of the shares of Cheyenne 
National presently own 76 per cent of the shares of East Bank, and a majority 
°f the directors are common to both banks. In 1963, the same group of in-
dividuals organized State Bank ($1.9 million deposits), 1.5 miles north of 
the downtown area. At present, 80 per cent of the shares of State Bank are 
owned by a corporation controlled and managed by a group of Cheyenne National 
shareholders. The controlling shareholders of Cheyenne National in I960 also 
acquired control of Wheatland Bank ($4.9 million deposits), which is the 
smaller of two banks located in Wheatland (population 2,400), a community 
located in Platte County about 70 miles north of Cheyenne. About 32 per 
cent of the shares of Wheatland Bank are owned by a corporation whose only 
function is the holding of those shares; that corporation, in turn, is wholly 
owned by a small group of shareholders of Cheyenne National. Applicant pro-
Poses to exchange its shares for those of Cheyenne National, East Bank, and 
State Bank, and for the stock of the corporation which controls Wheatland 
fcank, thereby acquiring direct control of each of the three Cheyenne banks, 
and indirect control of Wheatland Bank. 
The three proposed subsidiaries in Cheyenne, as a group, are 
approximately the same size as each of the other two banks in Cheyenne. Two 
other small banks, located 27 miles and 41 miles east, operate in Laramie 
County, of which Cheyenne is the seat. The service area of the Cheyenne banks 
is, essentially, the city of Cheyenne, although Cheyenne National attracts 
time deposits throughout southeastern Wyoming, East Bank's deposits are 

330 
-2-
concentrated in the eastern suburban area, and State Bank's deposits are 
concenttated in the northwestern suburban area. Although the areas served 
by the three banks overlap, there is not, and never has been, meaningful 
competition among then because of the aforedescribed relationship among them, 
which has existed since formation of the two smaller banks. Consummation of 
the proposal, therefore, will not eliminate existing competition. Applicant's 
acquisition of the three banks would serve to perpetuate the existing close 
relationship, and to that extent would eliminate the possibility of future 
competition which could develop in the event of a dissipation of those re-
lationships. However, in view of the facts that the relationships were not 
anticompetitive in their origins, and that Applicant will not, through its 
proposal, dominate Cheyenne banking, the possible adverse effect on future 
competition is not deemed to be of critical significance. 
With respect to IJheatland Bank, the absence of existing competition 
traces not only to its relationship with the other proposed subsidiaries, 
but also to the distance between it and them. Because of the distance in-
volved and the fact that branching is prohibited under Wyoming law, it does 
not appear that any potential competition would be foreclosed by Applicant's 
acquisition of Wheatland Bank. 
The principal competitive effect foreseen as a result of consummation 
of Applicant's proposal is an increase in competition. All four proposed 
subsidiaries have stimulated competition with the well-established principal 
competitors in the areas involved; approval of the application should encourage 
further competition, without undue adverse effects on competing banks. 

-5-
On the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation of 
Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance of 
any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen competition, 
tend to create a monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in any sec-
tion of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - Applicant 
is a newly-organized corporation. Its pro-forma financial condition appears 
satisfactory, giving due weight to its plans to raise additional capital 
through a stock issue in the near future. Its management is competent, and 
its prospects appear favorable. 
Wheatland Bank and State Bank are in satisfactory financial 
condition and have competent management and favorable prospects. Cheyenne 
National and East Bank have competent management and favorable prospects. 
Part of the proceeds of the new stock issue proposed by Applicant will be 
used to increase capital of these two banks, which would improve their 
present financial condition. 
The banking factors lend some weight toward approval. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Cheyenne's 
population has been growing slowly during the past 10 years to its present 
level of 50,000. In addition to being the county seat, Cheyenne is the State 
capital, and Warren Air Force Base is adjacent to the western edge of the 
city. The government sector accounts for most of the area's employment; 
there is no major private employer, although there are a number of small 

-5-
businesses in light manufacturing, distribution, construction, and service 
industries. The banking needs are comparatively simple and are presently 
being adequately met. All three of the proposed Cheyenne subsidiaries were 
organized during the last decade, and their operation by the organizers of 
Applicant has served to increase competition and improve banking service 
in the area. Cheyenne National has been an aggressive force in Cheyenne 
banking, and its prompt response to local demands for small business capital, 
consumer financing, residential mortgages, and modern conveniences such as 
drive-in banking has prompted competitive reaction by the two larger banks 
in the downtown area, improving banking service in the area. The opening of 
East Bank and State Bank has increased the convenience of banking service 
to suburban residents. Aside from the fact that it is proposed that, follow-
ing consummation of the present proposal, Cheyenne National will initiate 
trust services, the proposal will not result in significant improvements in 
the level of area banking services, compared with those available through 
the Cheyenne subsidiaries under their present relationship. However, that 
relationship has resulted in improved services in the area, and its continua-
tion under Applicant's proposal would appear similarly to serve the public 
interest. 
Wheatland Bank and its competitor in Wheatland find it economically 
unfeasible to offer a wide range of banking services, and residential mortgage 
loans are not available from either bank. As a result of internal efficiencies 
provided under its proposal, Applicant may find it feasible to offer additional 
services, and the responsiveness of Applicant's organizers to the needs of the 

993 
-7-
Cheyerine area indicates a likelihood that Wheatland Bank will similarly 
be responsive to the needs of the tJheatland community. 
Considerations relating to the needs and convenience of the areas 
involved lend some weight in favor of approval. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in sec-
tion 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed action 
would be in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
March 26, 1970. 

1.994 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I agree with the conclusions reflected in the Board's 
Statement, and, therefore, join in its action approving the subject 
application. 
At the same time, however, I wish to express my concern with 
respect to one aspect of the proposal. The individuals \*ho control 
the four proposed subsidiary banks also control various non-benking 
enterprises. In itself, there is nothing improper in this. To some 
extent, however, they have seen fit to exercise such control through a 
corporation, First Cheyenne Corporation, which directly owns both 
banking and non-banking interests. First Cheyenne Corporation owns 
80 per cent of the voting shares of State Bank, 13 per cent of the 
voting shares of East Bank, and 9 per cent of the voting shares of 
Cheyenne National, in addition to controlling interests in such non-
banking businesses as a pickle company, a packing company, a consumer 
finance company, a Savings and Loan Association, and insurance agencies. 
As a result of the exchange offers which Applicant will make to stock-
holders of the proposed subsidiary banks, First Cheyenne Corporation 
will become the owner of about 14 per cent of Applicant's shares, 
while maintaining its ownership of the non-banking interests,, 
I dissented from recent Board action approving applications 
filed by a bank holding company, 24a6 per cent of the voting shares 

-2- 
9 9 5 
of which were owned by a corporation with extensive non-banking 
i n t e r e s t s I n so doing, I pointed out. that, although the letter 
of the law is not violated by a corporation's control, without 
prior approval, of less than 25 per cent of the shares of a bank 
holding company, applications by such a holding company should be 
favorably considered only in the event that the Applicant success-
fully bears the burden of establishing that its relationships with 
other corporations are also within the spirit and intent of the Act. 
This, of course, equally applies to a proposed holding company and 
its prospective relationships. 
Upon careful consideration of the present record, I am 
persuaded that Applicant has successfully sustained its burden in 
that regard, and that consummation of its proposal would be in the 
public interest. Nevertheless, I believe the prospective ownership 
by First Cheyenne Corporation of a substantial block of Applicant's 
stock, in conjunction with extensive non-banlcing interests, to be 
most undesirable. In voting to approve Applicant's formation, it 
is my earnest hope and expectation that the organizers of Applicant 
will give appropriate attention to this undesirable relationship, 
to the end that First Cheyenne Corporation's interest in Applicant 
will be substantially reduced, if not eliminated. It is my view 
that this situation has sufficiently serious potential as to require 
future review, and that expansion proposals by Applicant should be 
considered in the light of developments affecting the relationship. 
March 26, 1970. 
1/ Applications of Charter Bankshares Corporation, 1970 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 
(March 12, 1970.) 

996 
Item No. 10 
3/26/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, 
Tampa, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The State Bank of 
Jacksonville, Jacksonville, 
Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of First Florida 
Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, for the Board1s prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The State 
Bank of Jacksonville, Jacksonville, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Commis-
sioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation., The 
Deputy Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

997 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 4, 1970 (35 Federal Register 2545), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall be 
extended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 26,1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Maisei; 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
l S E A LJ 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
» 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, 
1 
Tampa, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of The1 
State Bank of Arlington, Jacksonville, ' 
Florida. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
Thfcre has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of First Florida 
Bancorporation, lampa, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The State 
Bank of Arlington^ Jacksonville, Florida. 
As requited by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Commissioner of 
Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. The Deputy 
Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

1.939 
Notice of receipt of the application \7as published in the 
Federal Register on February 4, 1970 (35 Federal Register 2545), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board1s Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time shall be extended by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 26, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A> Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1.1000 
•I ») 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, TAMPA, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF (1) THE STATE BANK OF JACKSONVILLE AND (2) OF THE 
STATE BANK OF ARLINGTON, BOTH IN JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida ("Applicant11), a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of (1) The State Bank of Jacksonville 
("Jacksonville Bank") and (2) The State Bank of Arlington ("Arlington 
Bank"), both in Jacksonville, Florida, Each of these applications has 
been separately considered by the Board and is the subject of a separate 
Board Order. However, since many of the facts and circumstances involved 
are common to both proposals, this Statement contains the Board's find-
ings and conclusions with respect to both. 
After consummation of the proposals herein, the banks in 
Applicant's group will control aggregate total deposits of approximately 
$333 million.^ 
Jacksonville Bank, with total deposits of $45 million, 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company 
acquisitions for which Board approvals have been issued to date. 

lOf 
-2-
j 
is the fifth largest bank itl Duvril County and controls 4 per cent of 
deposits in the county. Arlington Bank with total deposits of approx-
imately $3 million, ranks 26th in the county and controls less than 
one-half of 1 per cent of deposits there. Each of the banks is located 
approximately 120 miles from Applicant's closest subsidiary. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the applications to the Florida Commissioner of Banking and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Deputy Commissioner 
recommended approval of both applications. 
Statutory considerations, - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 

-3-
1 
D 0 2 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 
10 largest banking organizations in Florida control close to 40 per 
cent of the total deposits in the State. The proposed acquisitions 
would represent Applicant's initial entry into the northeast portion 
of Florida and would cause Applicant's control to increase from 
2*4 to 2.8 per cent of total bank deposits in the State. Acquisition 
of the two banks would have little effect upon Applicant's share of 
control in the State. 
Jacksonville, which encompasses most of Duval County, is 
regarded as the relevant market area for Jacksonville Bank. However, 
the bank derives most of its business from downtown Jacksonville 
and the areas located to the south along the east and west sides of 
the St. Johns River. This area has an estimated population of 
125,000. 
The service area of Arlington Bank, which is located 
approximately seven miles from Jacksonville Bank, is stated by 
Applicant to be the Arlington area of the City of Jacksonville. 
That service area, with an estimated population of 70,000, is bounded 
° n the north and west by the St. Johns River, on the south by Arlington 
GxPressway, and on the east by undeveloped areas. The character of 
the service area appears to be primarily residential with the usual 
number of small business concerns. Jacksonville University is lo-
Cated within the area. Arlington Bank controls 11 per cent of 
deposits in its designated service area and is the smallest of 

1903 
-4-
four banks located there. Each of the other three banks is affiliated 
with a banking group larger than Applicant's. 
Four banking organizations currently control approximately 
85 per cent of the deposits in Duval County. Jacksonville Bank, with 
control of 4 per cent of such deposits, is the largest remaining 
unaffiliated independent bank in Jacksonville. While consummation 
of the proposed acquisition will increase holding company concentra-
tion in the Jacksonville area and will eliminate a banking alterna-
tive, a number of independent banks will remain in the Jacksonville 
area, and the affiliations are likely to give Applicant the com-
petitive capability effectively to penetrate a market now dominated 
by three larger holding companies which control, in the aggregate, 
14 banks. On this basis, the proposed affiliations have pro-
competitive elements; and would not be a barrier to entry by other 
holding companies. Three other holding companies, all larger than 
Applicant, could enter the Jacksonville market by establishing 
de novo banks or by acquisitions. It Is concluded that the effect 
upon the concentration of banking resources in the relevant areas 
is not inconsistent with approval of the applications. 
No competition appears to exist between any of Applicant's 
present subsidiary banks and either of the proposed subsidiaries. 
Nor is it likely that any would develop, in view of the distances 
intervening, and the Florida laws against branching. While the 
service areas of Jacksonville Bank and Arlington Bank are stated 

3 004 
1 
i Hi 
• i'' 
J, 
At 
*5-
by Applicant to overlap slightly, there appears to be no meaningful 
competition between these banks, due apparently to the disparity 
in size between them, the nature of the operations of these banks, 
and the presence of alternative sources of banking services in 
the area intervening between the two banks. Three officers of 
Jacksonville Bank filed the charter application for Arlington Bank 
and serve as directors of the latter bank. Stockholders owning 
33 per cent of the outstanding stock of Jacksonville Bank also own 
62 per cent of the outstanding stock of Arlington Bank. In the 
light of the common ownership between the banks and the origin of 
Arlington Bank, and the factors that account for the absence of 
meaningful present competition between these banks, there seems to 
be little likelihood of the development of future competition be-
tween theme 
It appears that consummation of the proposals would 
not have any significantly adverse effect upon the competitive 
ability of the banks that compete with Jacksonville Bank or 
Arlington Bank, nor on the banks that compete with Applicant's 
present subsidiaries. Rather, the entrance of Applicant into the 
Jacksonville area is likely to promote competition, as stated 
earlier. 
On the record before it, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisitions would not result in a 
monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 

-6-
area, and would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create 
a monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in any section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant has advised of current negotiations to raise $5.5 million to 
be used to strengthen the capital position of several banks in the 
system and to retire debt. On the basis of the proposed additions to 
capital, the financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiaries 
may be regarded as generally satisfactory. Managements of Applicant 
and the banks in the group are considered competent; and their pros-
pects appear to be favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Jacksonville Bank 
are regarded as fair. Affiliation with Applicant should result in 
strengthening the bank's general condition. Jacksonville Bank's 
prospects are good. The financial condition of Arlington Bank is 
satisfactory; its management is experienced and capable and its 
prospects are favorable. 
The banking factors are regarded as satisfactory and 
lend some weight toward approval. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. -
Consummation of the proposed acquisitions would have no apparent 
effect on convenience and needs in the areas served by Applicant's 
present subsidiaries. 

J 006 
-i* 
The Jacksonville area has a diversified economy with trade 
and government as the two largest employers. The United States Navy 
has several installations in the area. All major banking requirements 
of the Jacksonville area appear to be generally well served by the 
area's banks. Hov/ever, affiliation with Applicant would enable 
Jacksonville Bank to offer new services by establishing trust and 
correspondent bank departments and developing national account 
solicitation and international banking. Also, Applicant has the 
capability and plans to assist Jacksonville Bank in improving its 
services to accommodate the major credit requirements of large 
corporate accounts. 
The banking needs of the Arlington area are being met by 
the banks competing in the area. Affiliation with Applicant would 
enable Arlington Bank to solicit larger loans in participation 
with other subsidiaries of Applicant's system. Also, Applicant 
proposes to enable Arlington Bank to offer travel services. 
Considerations under the convenience and needs factors 
are consistent with approval of both applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed acquisitions would be in the public interest and that 
the applications should be approved. 
March 26, 1970. 

1097 
Item No. 7 
3/26/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
EXCHANGE BANCORPORATION, INC., 
1 
Tampa, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 
' 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
1 
shares of Peninsula State Bank, 
' 
Tampa, Florida. 
' 
ORDER DENYING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Exchange Bancorporation, Inc., 
Tampa, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Peninsula State Bank, 
III a 
Tampa, Florida. 
' 1 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
of Banking for the State of Florida and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
ill 
. 
application. 
11 i

11508 
±2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 14, 1969 (34 Federal Register 18270), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
all those received to the time of the Board's action were considered. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 26, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Chairman Burns did not participate in the decision 
on this application. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1.09 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
EXCHANGE BANCORPORATION, INC., TAMPA, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
PENINSULA STATE BANK, TAMPA, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Exchange Bancorporation, Inc., Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Peninsula State Bank, Tampa, 
Florida ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the applica-
tion was given to the Commissioner of Banking for the State of Florida, 
and his views and recommendation were requested. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

1.1010 
•n-
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of thfe Country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
the seventh largest bank holding company and banking organization in 
the State of Florida, controls four banks with aggregate deposits of 
1/ 
$257.4 million. 
Upon acquisition of Bank ($25.4 million deposits), 
Applicant would control 2.4 per cent of the deposits in the State, 
compared with 2.2 per cent at present, and would become the sixth 
largest bank holding company and banking organization in the State. 
These changes in State-wide concentration are not considered of 
themselves to be competitively significant. 
The effects which the proposal would have on existing and 
potential competition between Bank and present subsidiaries of 
Applicant, and on concentration of banking resources within the 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1969, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

-3 
1.011 
immediate area involved, are of much^greater significance and concern. 
Applicant's largest subsidiary, The Exchange National Bank of Tampa 
("Exchange Bank"), with $176 million deposits, is one of three large 
downtown Tampa banks, and serves the Tampa or central section of 
Hillsborough County. It is the second largest of 19 banks in the latter 
area. Another subsidiary of Applicant, The Exchange Bank of Temple 
Terrace ($9 million deposits) is also located within that area. The 
two subsidiaries together control 24 per cent of the deposits held by 
all commercial banks in central Hillsborough County. In terms of 
local deposits, Applicant is the second largest banking organization 
in the area; the three largest of such organizations, all of which 
are registered bank holding companies, control seven area banks 
which account, in the aggregate, for about 72 per cent of area 
deposits. 
Bank serves the populous Interbay Peninsula, which is 
located wholly within the larger area served by Exchange Bank. Bank 
is the eighth largest of 19 banks in central Hillsborough County, the 
fourth largest of 11 banks in that area which are not presently affil-
iated with any bank holding company, and the largest of four banks 
located in the Interbay Peninsula. Bank's office is located less 
that four miles from that of Exchange Bank, with only one small bank 
($15 million deposits) located in the intervening area. More than 
80 per cent of Bank's deposits and of its loans are derived from the 
area served by Exchange Bank, while the latter derives approximately 
10 per cent of its deposits and 10 per cent of its loans from that 
portion of its area which is served by Bank. Acquisition of Bank by 

1f> J 9 
Applicant would result In Applicant's control of about 27 per cent of 
the deposits in central Hillsborough County, and, it appears, would 
eliminate significant present competition between Bank and Exchange 
Bank, 
-v . 
Applicant contends that present competition between Bank and 
Exchange Bank is more apparent than real, because of relationships 
which Applicant's organization has had with Bank since formation of 
the latter in 1951. Several directors and principal shareholders 
of Exchange Bank were instrumental in organizing Bank. Applicant's 
president and Bank's president are brothers, and both are share-
holders of the two organizations. In addition, there are other 
common shareholders; persons and family groups who own 10.6 per 
cent of the shares of Applicant own about 74 per cent of Bank's shares. 
A close correspondent relationship exists between Exchange Bank and 
Bank, with the former providing, by referral, services for Bank's 
customers which Bank does not itself offer. 
In the Board's view, the present relationship between Bank 
and Applicant's group is not such as to preclude effective competition. 
Bank is an aggressive institution of sufficient size to offer com-
petition to Applicant's subsidiary with respect to a variety of 
services. While certain shareholders of Applicant control a 
majority of Bank's shares, holders of over 89 per cent of Applicant's 
shares have no financial interest in Bank, and the issuance by Applicant 
of additional shares to finance future expansion will likely lead to 

JK>I3 
-5' 
further dissipation of common ownership. Bank has had no management 
or personnel in common with Applicant or any of its subsidiaries since 
shortly after its organization. Its relationship with Exchange Bank 
is not essentially different from that which banks throughout the 
nation enjoy with their closest correspondents, which relationship, 
though mutually advantageous, cannot be regarded as inconsistent with 
competition in those areas where both offer a similar service. 
It is clear that acquisition of Bank is not in any sense 
a prerequisite to Applicant's attainment of a competitive position 
in central Hillsborough County or in the Interbay Peninsula area 
served by Bank. It would, however, eliminate the possibility that 
Bank might serve as a vehicle for entry of an organization not 
presently represented in the area. In the process, it would also 
eliminate existing and potential competition between Bank and one of 
Applicant's subsidiaries, and would decrease the possibility of new 
entry which could lead to increased competition and meaningful 
deconcentration of the area's banking resources. 
For these reasons, it is the Board's conclusion that consum-
mation of Applicant's proposal would have significant anticompetitive 
effects, which, in the absence of outweighing considerations relating 
to the banking factors or the convenience and needs of the communities 
involved, indicate that consummation of the proposal would not be in 
2/ 
the public interest. 
2/ The Department of Justice filed a letter with respect to the subject 
application, in which it stated its view that the competitive effect of 
Applicant's proposal would be "significantly adverse". In arriving at the 
conclusions reflected herein, the Board also gave due consideration to a 
response by Applicant to the Department's views. 

IV, 14 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant, and its subsidiary banks, are in satisfactory financial 
condition, with competent managements and favorable prospects. 
The financial condition of Bank is satisfactory; its 
management is competent and has been aggressive in developing new 
banking business in its area. Prospects of Bank are favorable, 
regardless of whether or not the present proposal is consummated. 
These considerations are consistent with approval, but 
lend no weight in support of such action. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of central Hillsborough County, and of that portion of 
the area served by Bank, appear to he adequately and conveniently 
met by banks now located there. 
Bank has actively and aggressively served the banking needs 
of its area. In particular, it has shown foresight in establishing 
its own computer operation, in order to better serve its customers. 
A close correspondent relationship now exists between Bank and 
Exchange Bank, and trust 
services, international banking services, 
and travel services are made available to its customers through 
referral to Exchange Bank. Under the present relationship, Bank also 
has the potential for participating in large credit transactions with 
Exchange Bank. While consummation of the proposal would probably 

-7* 
1.015 
facilitate cooperation between Bank and subsidiaries of Applicant, it 
does not appear that there would be significant improvements in the 
quantity or quality of services which Bank now provides to its 
customers. 
Considerations under this factor provide no significant 
weight either for or against approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion, - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors con-
tained in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed acquisition would have a significant adverse effect on com-
petition, without offsetting benefits under either the convenience 
and needs or the banking factors. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
proposal would not be In the public interest, and that the application 
should be denied. 
March 26, 1970. 

1 0 1 6 
Item No. 8 
3/26/70 
.. • • >.. •, t;; • \ • 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
EXCHANGE BANCORPORATION, INC,, 
1 
Tampa, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
Bank of Central Florida, Haines City, 1 
Florida. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Exchange Bancorporation, Inc., 
Tampa, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Bank of Central Florida, Haines City, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida State 
Commissioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 3, 1970 (35 Federal Register 2469), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 26, 1970, 
Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1.018 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
bF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
EXCHANGE BANCORPORATION, INC., TAMPA, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
BANK OF CENTRAL FLORIDA, HAINES CITY, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Ejcchange Bancorporation, Inc., Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Bank of Central Florida, Haines City, 
Florida ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to the Florida State Commissioner of Banking, and his views and recommenda-
tion were requested. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly 
or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or 
to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United 
States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, the effect of 
which, in any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen 

-2 
1 0 1 9 
competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner 
would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board is re-
quired to take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Florida control almost 40 per cent of deposits 
held by all commercial banks in the State." Applicant is the ninth largest 
banking organization and the seventh largest of 15 bank holding companies in 
the State. It controls four banks with aggregate deposits of $257 million, 
representing 2.2 per cent of the total deposits in the State. Acquisition 
of Bank ($6.3 million deposits) would have an insignificant effect on Appli-
cant's share of deposits in the State, and would not change Applicant's 
position relative to other banking organizations and bank holding companies 
in Florida. 
Applicant's largest subsidiary is The Exchange National Bank of 
Tampa ($176 million deposits), one of three large Tampa banks. Its other 
subsidiaries are: The Exchange Bank of Temple Terrace ($9 million deposits); 
Exchange National Bank of Winter Haven ($48 million deposits); and the Gulf-to-
Bay Bank & Trust Company ($24 million deposits), located in Clearwater. 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

i 
J A / 'wU 
-3-
Bank, the only office of which is located in Haines City, is the 
nineteenth largest of 20 banks in Polk County and serves an area approximately 
seven miles square, encompassing both Haines City and Davenport. State Bank 
of Haines City ($13 million deposits), a subsidiary of First Florida 
Bancorporation, is the only other bank located in the area. Consummation of 
the proposal would likely result in an increase in competition in the area, 
without undue adverse effects on State Bank of Haines City, or the other 
banks in the county with which Bank competes to a lesser extent. 
The only one of Applicant's subsidiary banks which is located within 
25 miles of Bank, or which competes with it to any extent, is Exchange National 
Bank of Winter Haven ("Winter Haven Bank"), which is located 12.5 miles south-
west of Bank. Competition between the two banks does not appear to be extensive. 
Bank derives about $240,000 in deposits and $66,000 in commercial loans from 
the Winter Haven area, while Winter Haven Bank derives about $540,000 in 
deposits and $305,000 in commercial loans from Bank's area. The number of 
accounts involved in this overlap is small, and in general the overlap appears 
traceable to considerations other than the competitive efforts of either bank 
in the area served by the other. In particular, several of the loans made 
by Winter Haven Bank in the Haines City area reflect credits in amounts 
greater than Bank can readily accommodate with its present lending limit. The 
significance of potential competition between Winter Haven Bank and Bank is 
also limited, because of the existence of competing banks in Winter Haven, in 
Haines City, and in the intervening areas, and because Florida law prohibits 
branching. 

' I 
i 
« 
Based upon the foregoing, the Bddtfd concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in further-
ance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business 
of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen competition, tend 
to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - The 
financial condition of Applicant and each of its subsidiary banks is satis-
factory. All have competent management, and their prospects appear favorable. 
Bank's capital is adequate. With Applicant's supervision and 
counseling, Bank's asset condition could be improved, thereby enhancing its 
prospects. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors support approval of 
the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consummation 
of the present proposal would not affect the convenience or needs of the 
customers served by Applicant's present subsidiary banks. 
Haines City is located 50 miles east of Tampa, within the largest 
citrus producing area of Florida. The only other bank in the area is a 
subsidiary of a bank holding company, and, in conjunction with its affiliates, 
is capable of meeting the large credit demands generated by the area's 
economy. However, the proposed affiliation would provide Bank with greater 
facility in handling large credit requests, and would permit broader services 
to be offered, thereby assuring that Bank will continue to be a meaningful 
competitor for the increased economic development which is expected to result 

1 f ) 9 0 
from two new recreational centers to be developed north of Haines City. 
In addition, Applicant anticipates greater efficiences in the operation of 
Bank due to benefits derived from the group affiliation, and these efficiencies 
could provide indirect benefits to the community which it serves. Considera-
tions relating to these factors tend to support approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in sec-
tion 3(c) of the Act, It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 
would be in the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
March 26, 1970. 

Item No. 
T E L E 
G R A M 
3/26/70 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
-V 
N 
March 27, 1970. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Board concurs in the suggestion of the Conference of 
Presidents at the March 1970 meeting that the 
authority in the Board's letter of December 24, 1969, 
for emergency credit to nonmember institutions be 
extended beyond the existing termination date and 
has approved an extension to August 1, 1970. 
(Signed) 
HOLLAND 

1024 
Wmmm-
[if 
• 
• CONFIDENTIAL J_FR) 
Mr. A* Be Merritt, 
First V?ce President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
Dear Mr. Merritt: 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2.0551 
Item No. 10 
3/26/70 
A D D R C H 3 
D T F I C I A L 
C O ft R E s: P • N D P N C E 
T O T H E 
O O A K D 
April 15, 1970 
94120 
This refers to your telephone conversation with 
Mr. Solomon, Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, regarding the interest of representatives of the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation in certain information related 
to Valley Bank of Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada, formerly Bank of 
Las Vegas. Mr. Alfred M0 King of the Los Angeles office of 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation has also visited 
Mr. Solomon with respect to the matter. 
The Board has considered the matter and has concluded 
that in the event a grand jury issues a subpoena to Valley Bank 
to produce documents, and Valley Bank responds that it does not 
have the documents, and the FBI supplies a list of these docu-
ments to your Bank, it would then be appropriate for your Bank 
to advise the FBI whether or not your examiners thereafter noted 
any items on the list in the course of performing their usual 
examination procedures during their next examination of the bank. 
In accepting such a list from the FBI and also in advising it 
further as to any items on it, it should be made clear that the 
information would not be used by the FBI or any other individual 
or group except as leads, that no personnel of the Federal Reserve 
Board or Federal Reserve Bank would be subpoenaed, and that there 
would be no disclosure of the source of the information. It should 
also be made clear that the examiners would not make a search for 
items on the list, and would merely report information noted 
during the performance of their regular examination procedures. 
It wouId not be expected that your examiners would take any action 
during the examination which might arouse suspicion as to their 
examination or the scope of it. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary,, 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 11 
3/26/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D H E 3 G 
O F F I C I A L 
C d H R C S P D N D E N C t 
TO THE BOARD 
March 26, 1970 
The Honorable Robert P. Mayo, 
Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Mayo: 
I am glad to acknowledge your memorandum of March 9, 
addressed to the Heads of Executive Departments and Establishments, 
requesting certain information and recommendations regarding 
Executive Schedule positions. 
Federal Reserve Board Executive Schedule positions total 
seven. There are no positions assigned under Section 5317, Title 5, 
U. S. Code. Executive Schedule positions by level are: 
Level II (Section 5313, Title 5, U. S. Code) 
Chairman, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System 
Incumbent: 
Arthur F. Burns 
Level III (Section 5314, Title 5, U. S. Code) 
Members, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System 
Incumbents: 
J. L. Robertson (Vice Chairman) 
George W. Mitchell 
J. Dewey Daane 
Sherman J. Maisel 
Andrew F. Brimmer 
William W. Sherrill 

1026 
The Honorable Robert P. Mayo 
-2-
We have no recommendations to submit for changes in 
present levels, additions to the Executive Schedule, or deletions 
at this time. There are no pertinent recommendations pending in 
the Bureau of the Budget, nor to our knowledge are there any pro-
posals for Executive Schedule positions now contained in pending 
legislation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary of the Board. 
