MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 17, 1972 

410 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
o n Thursday, February 17, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 
X0:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to .the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Pierce, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Wiiavc, 
tiw 
'-u, < 
• 00 aii'J 
H k 

411 
2/17/72 
-12-
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical 
Assistants, Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
Adrian State Bank, Adrian, Michigan, approving the issuance of capital 
notes. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
un j .. 
, 
• •• '• .!.-• c-.'..'.. 
•• • 
: ••' 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Ludington State Bank, 
Ludington, Michigan, approving the issuance of capital notes. 
A copy 
°f the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously, for transmittal to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency, a report on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
Posed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Economy Bank 
°f Ambridge, Ambridge, Pennsylvania, by Western Pennsylvania National 
n ,! 
, 
, 
- • , • I 
>
-
- 
•. 
; .' •"• • 
B^nk, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
r, 
There is some competition existing between Economy Bank 
of Ambridge and Western Pennsylvania National Bank, Pitts-
burgh, and there is potential for increased competition 
f . 
» 
• 
.
•
•
•
•
•
.
• 
• 

412 
2/17/72 
-12-
between them. The proposed transaction would further the 
trend toward concentration of banking resources in a few 
large banks in the Pittsburgh banking market. The overall 
effect on competition would be adverse. 
.if ; 
The Board approved unanimously, for transmittal to the Comptroller 
o f the Currency, a report on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
Posed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of The Belle Center 
Bank Company, Belle Center, Ohio, by Bellefontaine National Bank, Belle-
fontaine, Ohio. The conclusion read as follows: 
,0TC 
i-> i zorkv. A 
• r Mi - 
as pnL-li ; ' •; • 
There is some competition existing between The Belle 
Center Bank Company and^Bellefontaine National Bank. How-
ever, the possibility of increased future competition 
•-'l between the banks appears somewhat remote due to the 
relatively small size of The Belle Center Bank Company 
and its local community. Overall, the effect of the 
proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting approval 
Ch-U;.i'(..r Ci-'fti a submit c.-i<i for c 
i 
... r« 
' • - 
- •: !:o 
;• - 
: 
; 
on January 31, 1972, of the application of United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, 
N ew Jersey, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to The City 
National Bank of Millville, Millville, New Jersey. A copy of the order 
i s attached under Item No. 3, along with the dissenting statement of 
Ifi^n c uliu. ; i. 
Governor Robertson. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Charter New 
IJSad^ij »\ \ j,.t 
>oat* 
cu • 
s.£h-;-.f s v£ scf. x ^.••.c^tutix--
Y°rk Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Bank of 
IJ^M • - 
;., ; 
. , , 
.... 
. 
: 
.. .. 
• • . 
' 
• ' 
Babylon, Babylon, New York, and authorized the issuance of an order 
, 
I; 
,. 
. 
. . ,F 
• 
V ; . 
- f - *«• ' 
' VV. l ' 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
fcjftj V;.! ... 
, 
II-,'. 
, 
• 
'->/<> 
, 
( • , . r „ • 
• 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Milton Hershey 
School and School Trust, Hershey, Pennsylvania, pursuant to section 4(d) 

413 
2/17/72 
-12-
°f the Bank Holding Company Act, for an exemption from the prohibitions 
°f section 4 relating to nonbanking activities and acquisitions, and 
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy 
°f the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board authorized publication for comment of proposed amend-
ments to margin regulations G, T, and U regarding requirements for the 
continued listing of over-the-counter stocks on the Board's List of 
OTC Margin Stocks. 
A copy of the proposal as published in the Federal 
Agister is attached under Item No. 6, along with a copy of the press 
release issued. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Report on housing. 
With a memorandum dated February 14, 1972, 
Chairman Burns submitted for consideration a draft report to the Congress 
0 n Ways in which to moderate fluctuations in housing activities. 
Staff 
study papers on the subject had been submitted to the Congress last 
October, and the Board's recommendations with respect thereto had also 
been requested. 
Members of the Board expressed general satisfaction with the 
report although reservations were expressed with respect to certain 
Passages;, and suggestions were made for changes in emphasis and amplifi-
C a tion of others. 
It was understood that the pertinent passages would 
be:reworked in light of the comments, and that additional changes agreed 
uPon would be taken into consideration by Chairman Burns and the staff 

2/17/72 
-5-
in the further editing of the draft report. 
(Note: A revised draft 
incorporating these changes was submitted to the other members of the 
Board by Chairman Burns under date of February 28, 1972, with the 
understanding that additional comments would be taken into account 
P^ior to transmittal of the report to the Congress. A copy of the 
report, as subsequently sent, has been placed in the Board's files. 
A copy of the letter of transmittal is attached as Item No. 7.) 
Regulation T. 
In a memorandum dated February 9, 1972, the 
divisions of Supervision and Regulation and Research and Statistics 
discussed the questions whether (1) under the present provisions of 
Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, the broker/dealers were 
forbidden to sell tax-shelter programs with built-in instalment payment 
features, and whether (2) the Board should amend the Regulation to 
authorize broker/dealers to arrange such credit. 
The Divisions sug-
gested as alternative courses of action that the Board might (1) deny 
both an exemptive interpretation and an exemptive amendment, (2) inter-
pret Regulation T as presently permitting broker/dealers to sell such 
Programs, (3) amend Regulation T to provide an exemption, or (4) in 
view of the extensive industry interest in the questions, hold an oral 
Presentation before available members of the Board to consider arguments 
for the above and possible additional solutions. 
The Divisions favored 
t^e fourth alternative. 

415 
2/17/72 
-12-
Following discussion, it was understood that the staff would 
Prepare implementing documents for each of several alternatives mentioned 
and that the matter would be brought back for further consideration at 
a time when Governor Maisel could be present. 
First National Bank of Chicago. 
Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to The First National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 
"granting consent to the bank's continuing to hold shares of The First 
National Bank of Chicago (Jamaica) Limited after the latter acquires 
shares of Point Hotels Limited, Kingston, Jamaica. 
A copy of the letter 
i s attached as Item No. 8. 
Preliminary consideration had been given to the application at 
the meeting on December 23, 1971, at which time the staff was requested 
'to explore possible similarities between the proposed transaction and an 
earlier investment by an Edge corporation in a hotel enterprise. 
In a 
Memorandum dated February 8, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion discussed the two investments and concluded that both represented 
financing operations that would not run counter to the Board's established 
Policy with respect to direct or indirect investments in foreign non-
financial businesses. 
Newport Savings and Loan Association. 
In memoranda dated 
A ugust 6, 1971, and February 8, 1972, respectively, the Division of 
•supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the applications of 
Newport Savings and Loan Association, Newport, Rhode Island, (1) to 

2/17/72 
-7-
become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of The 
Island Trust Company, also of Newport, a proposed new bank, and (2) to 
continue to engage in the activities of a savings and loan association. 
The Board also considered the record of a hearing held before 
available members of the Board on November 29, 1971, concerning the 
Hmited question whether in Rhode Island a thrift institution should 
k e able to acquire a bank. 
Following discussion, the Board approved unanimously the appli-
cations and authorized the issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
that decision. 
Copies of the order and statement, as issued, are attached 
under Item No. 9. 
Old Colony Co-operative Bank. 
In memoranda dated January 14 
and February 10, 1972, respectively, the Banking Markets Section and 
fche Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
applications of Old Colony Co-operative Bank, Providence, Rhode Island, 
m 
to retain shares of The Newport National Bank, Newport, Rhode Island, 
a nd (2) to continue to engage in the activities of a savings and loan 
association. The Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval subject to applicant making a specified cash offer to all 
'Shareholders of Newport National Bank. The Banking Markets Section 
recommended unconditional approval. 
In its consideration of these applications, the Board also took 
into account the record of the November 29, 1971, hearing referred to 
> 
in the previous item. 

417 
2/17/72 
-8-
Following discussion during which it was agreed to accept the 
recommendation of the Banking Markets Section, the Board approved 
unanimously the applications. 
It was understood that an order and 
statement reflecting that decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Jacobus Company and Inland Financial Corporation. 
In a 
memorandum dated January 25, 1972, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation recommended approval of the applications of The Jacobus 
Company and Inland Financial Corporation, both of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
t o acquire shares of Heritage Bank-Mayfair, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum dated February 9, 1972, 
discussed the question whether the Board, as a matter of policy, should 
aPprove the acquisition of an additional bank by a holding company after 
t he latter had irrevocably committed itself to divest itself of its banks 
order to make more liberalized nonbanking acquisitions, and, for the 
reasons set forth, recommended approval in the present instance. 
It 
was noted, among other points, that Jacobus Company had committed itself 
t o divest its interest in Inland Financial Corporation to Jacobus Company 
st°ckholders within 90 days of enabling tax legislation that would permit 
distribution of shares on a tax free basis; legislation that would permit 
Such a transaction was pending. 
Following discussion the application was approved unanimously, 
w ith the understanding that an order conditioning the Board's approval 

418 
2/17/72 
-12-
°n the divestiture of interests in Inland Financial Corporation within 
ttrt 
9 0 days of the passage of enabling tax legislation would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. 
First National Financial Corporation. 
The Board approved 
unanimously the application of First National Financial Corporation, 
Kalamazoo, Michigan, to become a bank holding company through acquisi-
tion of shares of the following Michigan banks: 
The First National 
B ank and Trust Company of Michigan, Kalamazoo; The Merchants & Miners 
B ank, Calumet; and The Deerfield State Bank, Deerfield. 
The issuance 
o f an order reflecting that decision was also authorized, a copy of 
which is attached as Item No. 10. 
First Chicago Corporation. 
In memoranda dated February 9 and 
1972, respectively, the Banking Markets Section and the Division 
o f Supervision and Regulation recommended approval, subject to certain 
Conditions, of the application of First Chicago Corporation, Chicago, 
Illinois, to engage in leasing real property to McDonald's Corporation, 
°ak Brook, Illinois. 
It was the staff view that real property leasing, 
under controlled conditions, could be considered essentially an exten-
sion of credit, and, therefore, closely related to banking. 
Accordingly, 
was suggested that consideration might also be given to adding real 
Property leasing, under certain conditions, to the list of permissible 
activities under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 

419 
2/17/72 
-10-
1 / { t ' 
Comments indicated a reluctance on the part of some members of 
the Board to proceed on a case-by-case basis before a determination had 
been made on the general question whether real property leasing could 
b e regarded as so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident 
thereto. The consensus that emerged favored deferring action on First 
Chicago Corporation's application and publishing in the Federal Register 
comment a proposed amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, 
that would define the area in which leasing real property might be 
regarded as a permissible activity. 
It was understood that a proposed amendment along the lines 
discussed would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Family Finance Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated February 4, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of 
the application of Family Finance Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware, 
Pursuant to section 4(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act, for an exemp-
tion from the prohibitions of section 4 (relating to nonbanking activities 
a n d acquisitions). 
It was the view of the Division that the public 
interest would best be served if the exemption were not granted. 
How-
l e r , the Banking Markets Section and the Legal Division in memoranda 
dated January 31 and February 8, 1972, respectively, recommended approval 
o f the application on the grounds that the application met certain other 
conditions prescribed in the statute as warranting an exemption and the 
Public interest could be protected by appropriate conditions set by the 
Board. 

420 
2/17/72 
-11-
Fo11owing discussion, the application for an exemption was 
approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting. 
It was understood that an 
appropriate order would be prepared for the Board's consideration, 
along with a dissenting statement. 
Legislative recommendations. 
In a memorandum dated February 15, 
1972, the Legal Division discussed proposed legislative recommendations 
for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report for 1971. 
Following discussion, the Board agreed to repeat recommendations 
that had been made for 1970 relating to the following: 
(1) Lending authority of Federal Reserve Banks; 
(2) Reserve requirements for all institutions that accept 
demand deposits; 
(3) Home loans to bank examiners; 
(4) Federal Reserve Bank purchases of foreign government 
obligation; 
< (5) Interlocking bank relationships; 
- (6) Federal Reserve Bank branch buildings; and 
(7) Bank investments for community development. 
It was also agreed that recommendations relating to the following 
w°uld be made: 
(1) Miscellaneous amendments relating to bank holding 
companies: 
(a) Cease-and-desist orders; 
(b) Acquisition by holding company of failing bank; and 

421 
2/17/72 
-12-
(c) Retention by a holding company of bank stock 
acquired as a result of a debt previously 
contracted. 
The Board also approved unanimously a letter to the Office of 
Management and Budget stating that it had no legislative proposals to 
submit for consideration by State legislatures. 
A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 11. 
Annual Report. 
The Board unanimously approved the substance of 
the Prelude (Part I) of the Board's Annual Report for 1971, a draft of 
^ i c h had been submitted with a memorandum dated February 4, 1972, from 
Molony. 
It was understood that further comments or suggestions 
would be submitted to Mr. Molony. 
Acquisition of de novo banks. Authority to approve the acquisi-
tion of de novo banks by bank holding companies had been delegated to 
the Reserve Banks provided certain guidelines were met. 
One of the 
guidelines provided that the financial institution should not be 
dominant in the State. 
Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting 
January 4, 1972, the staff had now prepared a list of banking organi-
2 a tions that might legally expand through the acquisition of de novo 
b anks and that were considered dominant. 
In a memorandum dated February 7, 
l 9 72, Mr. Leavitt recommended that the list be forwarded to the Federal 
Reserve Banks for their guidance in acting under delegated authority 
a n d that authority to change the list from time to time be delegated to 
t h e Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section. 

422 
2/17/72 
-13-
It was also suggested that changes agreed upon in the future by the 
staff might be cleared with a member of the Board. 
The Board unanimously approved the staff recommendations, and 
i-t was understood that changes in the list would be cleared through 
Governor Mitchell. 
Copies of the list and the letter of transmittal 
a^e attached under Item No. 12. 
. 
All staff members except Mr. Holland withdrew at this point. 
Foreign travel. Governor Daane reported that the Board's 
Committee on Travel, of which he is Chairman, had discussed the travel 
Program of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York with President Hayes. 
He stated that in light of the comments of the Travel Committee, President 
Hayes had agreed to reconsider various aspects of that program and to 
submit a revised 1972 travel program for Board consideration. 
In the interim, however, the New York Bank requested prompt 
Board consideration of a pending request for temporary staff assistance 
that had been received from the Central Bank of Brazil and that required 
early response. The Central Bank of Brazil had asked to borrow the 
services of Spencer Marsh, Market Adviser, for a period of about three 
W eeks beginning about mid-March 1972, to assist in efforts to develop 
a treasury bill market in Brazil. The Central Bank of Brazil was wili-
n g to pay all of Mr. Marsh's expenses, but, as customary in such cases, 
was contemplated that the Central Bank would not make reimbursement 
for Mr. Marsh's salary. 

423 
2/17/72 
-14-
The Board gave its approval to the loan of Mr. Marsh's services 
to the Central Bank of Brazil on the basis outlined. 
In addition, the Board voted to delegate to the Travel Committee 
authority to act on the Board's behalf on questions of foreign travel by 
Reserve Bank personnel, with the understanding that the Committee would 
b^ing difficult individual cases and all questions of principle in this 
area to the Board for resolution. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

424 
Item No. 1 
2/17/72 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
C 
BOARD 
, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Adrian State Bank 
Adrian, Michigan 
Centlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $400,000 
in subordinated capital debentures by Adrian State Bank, Adrian, 
Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago as amended by Senior Vice President Morrison's letter of 
February 4, 1972. Approval is granted with the understanding 
that: the sale of these capital debentures will be consummated 
within six-months from the date of this letter. It is further 
understood that any advertising with respect to the obligations 
will, in addition to being in compliance with the provisions of 
section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of 
the obligation from a deposit, including by setting forth in bold 
face type that the obligation is subordinated to the claims of 
depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
ADDRESS DrriCIAL 
TO THI 
February 17 
r
i 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C- 
20551 
425 
Item No. 2 
2/17/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R t S P O N D E N C E 
m 
THE: 
u n A i 4 D 
February 17, 1972 
•w: 
Board of Directors 
Codington State Bank 
Gliding ton, Michigan 
Gentlemen; 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(d) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $300,000 
in subordinated capital debentures by Ludington State Bank, 
Aldington, Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago. Approval is granted with the understanding that 
the sale of these capital debentures will be consummated within 
six-months from the date of this letter. It is further understood 
that any advertising with respect to the obligations will, in 
addition to being in compliance with the provisions of section 217.6 
Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of the obligation 
^ o m a deposit, including by setting forth in bold face type that 
the obligation is subordinated to the claims of depositors and 
not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
... • ..V. » 

FEDERAL RESER</& SYSTEM 
UNITED JERSEY BANKS 
1 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey, a bank holding 
c°mpany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
i 
to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting 
s^res of the successor by merger to The City National Bank of Millville, 
J 
I 
HlUville, New Jersey ("City National"). The bank into which City 
1$ 
National is to be merged has no significance except as a means of 
Quiring all of the shares of City National. Accordingly, the proposed 
ac<luisition of the shares of the successor organization is treated herein 
a s the proposed acquisition of shares of City National. 
IB 
• Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
vi*ws has expired. The Board has considered the application and all 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
th® Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that; 
Applicant, with nine subsidiary banks holding aggregate 
dePosits of $956.9 million, is the largest banking organization in 
Je r s e y with 6.1 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the 
State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding 
I 
C0*pany formations and acquisitions approved through November 30, 1971.) 
^summation of the proposed acquisition of City National (deposits of 
$X2.4 million) would increase only slightly Applicant's share of 
statewide commercial bank deposits. 

427 
Applicant, through its subsidiary, The Cumberland National 
Bank of Bridgeton, New Jersey ("Cumberland National"), is the fifth 
la*gest banking organization within the relevant market (which is 
aPProximated by Cumberland County and adjacent portions of Salem, 
Gloucester, and Atlantic Counties) with 12.3 per cent of deposits, 
approval of the acquisition of City National, the smaller of two 
banks in Millville and the eighth largest bank in the market, would 
result in Applicant becoming the largest of twelve banking organiza-
tions in the market with 17.2 per cent of deposits. 
Although City National and Cumberland National (deposits of 
$25.5 million) are located eleven miles apart, there appears to be no 
8l8nificant existing competition between the two banks. Moreover, 
based on the facts of record, it is considered unlikely that potential 
^Petition would develop between Applicant and Bank since Applicant 
ls unlikely to enter Millville by chartering a new bank and since de novo 
inching into Millville is barred by the home office protection provision 
0 f the New Jersey Banking Statute. Nevertheless, unconditioned approval 
0f this application would appear to have an adverse competitive impact 
in that home office protection could be perpetuated in Millville thus 
^ c l o s i n g competitors from branching into Millville. This possible 
^-competitive effect of approval could be eliminated if home office 
S e c t i o n were not perpetuated. Accordingly, approval of the application 
ts conditioned upon Applicant filing a merger application and, subject to 
SuPervisory approval, merging City National into Cumberland National 
* l t M n one year of the date of this Order so as to remove home office 

-3-
428 
Protection from Millville unless, within such one year period, there 
a change in New Jersey law which would accomplish the same result, 
that basis and after consideration of the record, the Board concludes 
tl*at no significant adverse competitive effects are likely to result 
from approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Applicant, its subsidiaries, and the proposed subsidiary appear to 
b e satisfactory. Applicant's ability to provide City National with 
Management succession lends some weight for approval. Applicant pro-
Poses to expand City National's trust and investment services, to expand 
Cl-ty National's commercial loan programs to include new types of loans, 
Such as accounts receivable financing and construction financing, to 
Provide data processing services, and to improve facilities. Convenience 
needs factors, therefore, lend some weight toward approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition as 
Conditioned is in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. This order is entered on the condition 
•^iSt United Jersey Banks will file a merger application and, subject 
t o supervisory approval, merge The City National Bank of Millville, 
New Jersey, into The Cumberland National Bank of Bridgeton, 
New Jersey, within one year of the date of this Order so as 
t o remove home office protection from Millville unless, within such 
year period, there is a change in New Jersey law which would 
Accomplish the same result. 

429 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
Coftsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
i 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ February 17, 1972. 
i a'lj •- ,.f 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
and V° t i n8 f o r t h i s action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Maisel, 
arid S h e e h a n- 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. Absent 
n°t voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

430 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
It is incontrovertible that the proposed acquisition 
W°Uld eliminate existing competition between Cumberland National, 
°ne of Applicant's subsidiary banks, and City National. Applicant 
v°uld increase its market share from 12.3 per cent to 17.2 per cent 
would become the largest of 12 banking organizations within the 
Market. Furthermore, the proposed acquisition would remove the only 
dependent bank in Millville and one of the few independent banks 
ithin the market remaining for acquisition by banking organizations 
ot heretofore represented in the market. 
Allowing a major holding company to expand through combina-
with one of the remaining independent banks, in a market where 
it 
. 
J's already represented, is undesirable standing alone; but even 
e> it could lead to the domination of a market by a few large 
lng organizations, since it leaves outside organizations only 
the m 
"•ore difficult route of de novo entry. Competition would be 
^tto 
e r served if City National were preserved as a vehicle for entry 
by 
a n organization not presently represented in the market. 
No matter how one dresses up the convenience and needs 
b°rs oi 
r s or managerial and financial considerations, they do not 
Weigh the anticompetitive effects of the acquisition, a statutory 
sity where—as here—competition would be substantially lessened, 

431 
- 2 -
On the basis of the record, it is my judgment that thfe 
Proposed acquisition would not be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be denied. 
Pebruary 17, 1972 
< \ 
Ji ' 

Item No 
2/17/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has Spiled for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
^ U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
0f Bank of Babylon, Babylon, New York ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
a°c°rdance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f ^ e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the ninth largest banking organization in New York, 
nine banks with total domestic deposits of $4.7 billion, 
Presenting approximately 4.9 per cent of the State's total commercial 
J 
ep°sits. (Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of June 30, 
197:1» adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
thr°ugh December 30, 1971.) Upon acquisition of Bank (deposits of 
million), Applicant would not increase its present ranking nor 
enlarge its share of State deposits. 
Bank operates seven offices in the Babylon-Islip banking 
where it is the third largest of thirteen banks, controlling 

433 
- 2 -
12.2 per cent of market deposits."^ Applicant's closest subsidiary 
bank is located 50 miles from Bank in New York City. None of Applicant's 
Sub3idiary banks may branch into Bank's market until 1976 when State-wide 
br 
anching will become effective. Applicant's subsidiary banks derive 
°nly minimal banking business from Bank's market and, therefore, there 
is °nly nominal existing competition. Consummation of the proposal 
V°uld not eliminate any significant existing competition and would not 
tersely affect any competing bank in any relevant area. 
Some potential competition between Applicant and Bank would 
foreclosed upon consummation of the proposal since Applicant could 
6nter Bank's market de novo or through acquisition of a smaller bank, 
ovever, Applicant does not seem to be a likely de novo entrant and 
°nly two banks smaller than Bank appear available for acquisition. 
Q 0lnPetitive considerations related to acquistion of those two banks 
J 
0 n<>t differ materially from the acquisition of Bank. Further, 
aPPtoval of the proposal would remove home office protection from 
tlle Village of Babylon and have the pro-competitive effect of enabling 
banking institutions to branch into the area. Therefore, consum-
ption of the proposal would have no significant adverse effect on 
Poto 
er*tial competition and may have pro-competitive impact. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and Bank 
generally satisfactory and consistent with approval. Applicant pro-
P0<5 
e s to expand Bank's services, thereby providing another competitive 
x 
banking data related to market position are as of June 30, 1970. 

434 
-3-
alternative for specialized banking services. Accordingly, considerations 
relating to convenience and needs of the community lend some weight toward 
aPProval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would 
b e in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tlle reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
k ) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- 
February 17, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Ljbertson, Mitchell, 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 
U i 
Y.. 
H 
W m l 
il'fsS •••f'-a -V 
vt9»s -
<I A 
' 

Item No. 5 
2/17/72435 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MILTON HERSHEY SCHOOL AND SCHOOL TRUST 
Order Approving Exemption of Nonbanking Activities 
of Bank Holding Company 
Milton Hershey School and School Trust, Hershey, Pennsylvania, 
a bank holding company by virtue of 56 per cent ownership of The 
Hershey National Bank, Hershey, Pennsylvania ("Bank"), has applied to 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 4(d) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(d)), for an exemption from the prohibitions 
o f section 4 (relating to nonbanking activities and acquisitions). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with section 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a l 1 comments received in the light of the factors set forth in section 
of the Act and finds that: 
Milton Hershey School was established in 1909 by Milton and 
Catherine Hershey. In 1930, Milton Hershey transferred his controlling 
lnterest in The Hershey National Bank, founded in 1925, to the Milton 
School Trust, with the Hershey School as beneficiary. Upon 
Hershey's death in 1945, Milton Hershey School and School Trust 
a controlling interest in Hershey Foods Corporation and other 
^banking interests in and around the town of Hershey, Pennsylvania. 
B a n k ($40 million in deposits as of June 30, 1971) was established to 
pr°vide banking facilities for the employees of the predecessor to the 
He*shey Foods Corporation. Over the years, the majority of the bank's 

436 
-3-
customers have been employees of Hershey Foods Corporation. Furthermore, 
over 90 per cent of Bank's loans are to individuals or small businesses 
in the Hershey community or its immediate area. The present ownership 
t^s have existed for over 40 years, a period of affiliation within 
the terms of section 4(d)(1). Bank is well managed and in sound financial 
condition and Applicant has not abused its relationship with the Bank. 
There is no reason to believe that permitting this relationship to 
continue indefinitely will adversely affect either the Bank or the 
community of Hershey. 
At the present time, over 80 per cent of Bank's stock is 
°*ned either by Applicant or residents of the Hershey community and 
lts environs. Forced sale would probably result in a loss of this 
of local control. Bank has historically maintained an investment 
ln home, farm, and commercial mortgages of the maximum amount permitted 
by State law, and over 80 per cent of these loans were conventional home 
^ttgages. Approximately 37 per cent of the Bank's loans are commercial 
l°ans to small businesses in Hershey or installment loans on automobiles. 
Bank also makes education loans to individual students. With higher 
rates of return available on other types of investments, a new owner 
0 f Bank would be quite likely to change its investment policy substantially. 
Because of the nature of the Hershey community and the nature of Bank under 
Ptesent ownership, it is the Board's view that forced sale of Bank would 
*6sult in control by interests not similarly representative of the Hershey 
CQB*uinity. 

Exemption under 4(d)(3) is contingent upon a finding of a 
b*nk's small size in relation to the holding company's total interests. 
type of holding company for which such analysis was envisaged is 
a n operating industrial company. Applicant's assets consist of a 
Portfolio of stock investments which are not subject to the type of 
analysis contemplated under this provision of the Act. 
The legislative history of section 4(d) indicates that Congress 
Nearly intended Applicant to be one of the companies entitled to an 
O p t i o n (House Report No. 91-1747, 91st Cong., 2d Sess., p. 24 and 
1 1 6 Con£. Rec., H. 11790 and S. 20653). After a review of the entire 
tec°vd, the Board concludes that the granting of an exemption pursuant 
t o 5 4(d) of the Act would not be substantially at variance with the 
PurPoses of the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
t h e reasons summarized above; provided, however, that this determination 
i s subject to revocation by the Board if the facts upon which it is 
Qsed change in any material respect. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ February 17, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
P ^ V m n g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
itchellJ Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 

Item No. 6 
2/17/72 
jj 
Please in morni ng papers, 
February 22, 1972 
Gadfly, February 23r, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System pro-
P°Sc?3 today the criteria that over-the-counter (OTC) stocks must 
C°nUnue to meet in order to remain on its List of OTC Margin Stocks. 
The criteria employed in selecting OTC stocks for inclusion 
°n 
List of OTC Margin Stocks were announced on July 9, 1969. The 
6tock..s now on the list are subject to the Board's margin regulations. 
Adoption of the proposal would mean that OTC margin stocks 
substantially to meet the criteria would be removed from the 
*ist and would no longer be subject to margin regulations. The pro-
rCs°cl delisting criteria are less restrictive than the initial listing 
^toria. 
Interested persons are asked to submit their comments on 
Proposed criteria in writing by March 24, 1972. 
> A copy of the proposal is attached. 
Atfr 
Cachment 
- 0 -

flit g .*. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR PARTS 207, 220, and 221] 
[Regs. G, T, and U] 
SECURITIES CREDIT TRANSACTIONS 
Requirements for Continued Inclusion on 
List of OTC Margin Stocks 
The Board of Governors proposes to amend Parts 207, 220, 
^ d 221 in order to implement the requirements for a stock's continued 
delusion on the List of OTC Margin Stocks as follows: 
la. 
Section 207.2(f)(3) of Part 207, Securities Credit by 
^ s o n s other than Banks, Brokers or Dealers, would be amended as 
8 G t forth below: 
§ 207.2 Definitions 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(£) QIC m a r g i • * * * 
,, 
i • „ t-n. i-im^ remove from the list 
(3) The Board shall from time to time xemu 
S c r i b e d in subparagraph (2) of this paraEraph (f) stocks that cease 
to: 
c i-i, ci1(1 insuer ceases to exist, or 
(i) Exist or of which the issuer ^ 
. 
n provisions of subparagraph (1) 
(ii) Meet substantially the provisions 
Of M . 
/,-N 
< r 
(the Supplement to Regulation G). 
u t this paragraph (f) and §207.5;c; ^uic 
, , v n f q P C tion 207.5 would be added as set 
b. 
Paragraph (e) oi s«cixi/.i 
fo*th below: 

v. 
..mil? 
• • " 
- 2 
§•207.5" Supplement 
m 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(G) Requirements for ^ntlnued,inclusion on_list of OTC 
B!S£Ein_Btock. Except as provided in subparagraph (4) of § 207.2(f), 
8 u eh stock shall meet the requirements that: 
(1) The stock continues to be subject to registration under 
Action 12(g)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
(2) Four or more dealers stand willing to, and do in fact, 
toake a market in such stock including making regularly published 
feaajLfide bids and offers for such stock for their own accounts, or 
stock is registered on a securities exchange that is exempted by 
% 
Securities and Exchange Commission from registration as a national 
8<*uri t i e 3 exchange pursuant to section 5 of the Securities and 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 7Se), 
(3) There continue to be 1,000 or more holders of record 
°£ the stock who are not officers, directors, or beneficial owners 
\ 
°f 10 per cent or more of the stock, 
(4) The Issuer continues to be a U.S. Corporation, 
(5) Daily quotations for both bid and asked prices for 
stock are continuously available to the general public; 
ar>d shall meet 3 of the 4 additional requirements that: 
(6) 400,000 or .ore shares of such stock remain outstanding 
il> addition to shares held beneficially by officers, directors, or 
b*noficial owners of more than 10 per cent of the stock, 
(7) The shares described in subparagraph (6) of this 
M
O 
^ g r a p h continue to have « market value in the aggregate of at least 
s<!5 million, 
is 

(8) The minimum average bid price of such stock, as deter-
mined by the Board, is at least $5 per share, and 
• 
$ 
(9) The issuer continues to have at least $2.5 million of 
caPital, 
surplus, and undivided profits, 
2a. 
Section 220.2(e)(3) of Tart 220, Credit by Brokers and 
Dealery 
v o u l d be amended as set forth below: 
5 220.2 Definitions 
-A- 
* 
* 
Vc 
. Hi' 
(e) PTC, margin stock. * * * 
(3) The Board shall from time, to time remove from the 
l l yt described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (e) stocks 
that cease to: 
(i) 
Exist or of which the issuer ceases to exist, or 
(ii) Meet substantially the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
011 this paragraph (e) and of § 220.8(h) (the Supplement to Regulation 
b. 
Paragraph (h) of section 220.8 would be added as set 
fo*th below: 
§ 220.8 Supplement 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(h) ReauirenLents 
^
y
^ 
^^gin stock. Except as provided in subparagraph (4) of § 220.2(e), 
margin stock shall meet the requirements that: 
(1) The stock remains subject to registration under 
°ection 12(g)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 

(2) Four or .more dealers stand willing to, and do in fact, 
»ake a market in such stock including making regularly published 
feonajPide bids and offers for such stock for their own accounts, or 
stock is registered on a securities exchange that is exempted by 
Securities and Exchange Commission from registration as a national 
Purities exchange pursuant to section 5 of the Securities and 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c)> 
(3) There continue to be 1,000 or more holders of record 
the stock who are not officers, directors, or beneficial owners 
o f 10 per cent or more of the stock, 
(4) The issuer continues to be a U.S. Corporation, 
(5) Daily quotations for both bid and asked prices for the 
stock are continuously available to the general public; 
shall meet 3 of the 4 additional requirements that: 
(6) 400,000 or more shares of such stock remain outstanding 
^ addition to shares held beneficially by officers, directors, or 
beneficial owners of more than 10 per cent of the stock, 
(7) The shares described in subparagraph (6) of this par-
a&raPh continue to have a market value in the aggregate of at least 
million, 
(8) The minimum average bid price of such stock, as deter-
^ned by the Board, is at least $5 per share, and 
, • 
hivp at- least $2.5 million of 
(9) The issuer continues to have ac ^wbi y 
CaPital, surplus, and undivided profits. 
3a. 
Section 221.3(d)(3) *f Part 2*1/ Credit by Banks for 
Purpose M Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stock set forth below: 

v' 
- I> -
§ ^21.3 Miscellaneous Provisions 
* 
& 
* 
* 
* 
(d) QIC margin stock. * * * 
(3) The Board shall from time to time remove from the 
l i s t described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (d) stocks that 
Cea®e to: 
Vi. 
(i) 
Exist or of which the issuer ceases to exist, or 
(ii) Meet substantially the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f ^ i s paragraph (d) and of § 221.4(e) (the Supplement to Regulation U) 
b. 
Paragraph (e) of section 2?Tl-4 would be added as set 
fo*th below: 
S 2*1.4 s< 
x 
Supplement 
H " 
•k 
(e) Requirements for continued inclusion on Ust_qf_OTC 
"^ill^stock. 
Except as provided in subparagraph (4) of £ 221.3(d), 
0i"C ^ r g i n stock shall meet the requirements that: 
(1) The stock remains subject to registration under section 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
(2) Four or more dealers stand willing to, and do in fact, 
a market in such stock including making regularly published 
^ S l j i d e bids and offers for such stock for their own accounts, or 
stock is registered on a securities exchange that is exempted by 
Securities and Exchange Commission from registration as a national 
Cr 
Cu*ities exchange pursuant to section 5 of the Securities and 
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78e), 

M 4 
- 6 -
... 
l i s 
, „ 1 000 or more holders of record 
( 3 ) 
There continue to be 1,0 
o £ f i c e r S ) directors, or beneficial owners 
of the stock who are not officers, 
of 10 per cent or more of the stock, 
-mtinues to bo. a U.S. Corporation, 
<41 The issuer contxnuet 
f 
both bid and asked prices fox 
(5) Daily quotations fox 
n,ble to the general public, and 
the stock are continuously available 
: 
^ 
— 
3 " 
t h e 4 a d d i t i 0 n n l r e q U l J l l T c k remain outstanding 
(6) 400,000 or more shaxes o 
«„iallv by officers, directors, 
in addition to shares held beneficially 
„ 
1 0 per cent of the stock, 
beneficial owners of more than 
, 
o £ t h i 3 
, 
vibed in subparagraph (6) 
(7) The shares described 
• 
t 0 h,ve a marhet value in the aggregate 
paragraph continue to nave. 
least $5 million, 
^ ^ 
B t o c k > a s deter-
(8) 
The minimum average bid price o 
, <fi at least $5 per share, and 
mined by the Board, is at 
million of 
hive at least 
( 9 ) The issuer continues to have 
Hvided profits* 
capital, surplus, and unc 
^ 
B o a r d > 
TO aid in the consideration of this 
io 
-1-11 
vioVJC. or 
invited to submit relevant data, View 
interested persons are invit 
t 0 
i31 Should he submitted in 
arguments. Any such matex . • 
c<,prol R e s e r V e System, 
the Secretary, Board of Governors oi 
MSAi.V,'-

7 
Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than March 24 
^72. Such material will be made available for inspection and 
C0Pying upon request, except as provided in 5 261.6(a) of the 
Board1s rules regarding availability of information. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 17, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
I SEAL] 
445 
v 4 

Item No. 7 
2/17/72 
CHA.RMAN o r THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
March 3, 1972 
Honorable John Sparkman 
^airman 
Committee on Banking, Housing 
. and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D.C. 
20510 
°ear Mr. Chairman: 
T 
« N P I N < ? P for your consider-
On behalf of the Board of Governors, I enclose fo > 
h o u s i n g . 
Jtion a report on the impact of general credit r 
m o d e r a t e 
report contains r e c o r d a t i o n s u ^ 
- ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ f r e q u e n t l y 
^ l i n e s i n h o l M\ i n s T
Z 
l e cost and availability of mortgage 
iri the past due to changes m the co~l 
v 
, 
oi r,f Tflcjt vear I submitted to you 
1°U Will recall that on October 21 o£ la»t ^ 
a t a f f 
Wisetcus papers on this subject prep^rua o y u 
consultants. 
In preparing its own recommendations, 
found these background papers most usetu±. 
K n o f n g o f your strong 
1 sincerely hope that the Loaid s repori w 
i 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Arthur F. B u m s 
Arthur F. Burns 
^•closure 
Identical letters were sent to. 
Currency Committee 
B
a
r
r
e
t
t
°
o
f 
the Subcommittee on Housing of the House 
Ranking and Currency Committee 
B a n K U 5 
. 
- 
T oi n t Economic Committee 
Chairman Proxmire of the Joint 

' - S r ^ t ' 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C. 205S1 
Item 
2/17/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 17, 1972 
>f jp>' 
nib 
. ; 
''--v. • 
•k -
-Ui 
The First National Bank of Chicago 
One First National Plaza 
Chicago, Illinois 
60670 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 17, 1971, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your bank to con-
tinue to hold the shares of The First National Bank of 
Chicago (Jamaica) Limited ("FNBC-JL") after FNBC-JL's wholly-
owned subsidiary, First Chicago Merchant Bank (Jamaica) 
Limited, acquires up to 15 per cent of the shares of Point 
Hotels Limited, Kingston, Jamaica, at a cost of approxi-
mately J$500,000 (about $600,000), provided the rights to 
such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the acquisition will be made with the resources 
of FNBC-JL or its subsidiary and will not involve any trans-
fer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the United 
States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
» 
•.< . vv. 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2/17/7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NEWPORT SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION 
< 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company and 
Continuation of the Activities of a Thrift Institution 
Newport Savings and Loan Association, Nex^port, Rhode Island, 
has aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) and § 4(c)(3) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1) and 1843(a)(8)) to 
Gcome a bank holding company through acquisition of 100 per cent of 
the 
V(>ting shares of The Island Trust Company, Newport, Rhode Island, 
pr°posed new bank, and to continue thereafter to engage in the 
activities of a thrift institution. 
Pursuant to § 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
of r eceipt of the application to become a bank holding company to the 
ank Commissioner for the State of Rhode Island and requested his 
s and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended that the appli-
es*. J 
0tl be favorably considered. Subsequently, the Director of the 
ccment of Business Regulation for the State of Rhode Island (whose 
Item No 
^Utisdiction encompasses the office of the Bank Commissioner) recommended 
that th 
cne application be approved. 
Notice of receipt of the application to become a bank 
n8 company was published in the Federal Register on June 19, 1971 
(36 
, 
^deral Register 11832), providing an opportunity for interested 
Pe*ao 
n s to submit comments and views with respect to the proposed trans-
Several letters of comment objected to Newport Savings and 
an Association becoming a bank holding company and continuing thereafter 
to ^ 
&a8e in the activities of a thrift institution. 

- 2 -
449 
In view of the issues raised, the Board published notice 
of a hearing on the matter (36 Federal Register 21708). The hearing 
W a s held before available members of the Board on November 29, 1971. 
A11 persons desiring to give testimony, present evidence or otherwise 
Participate in the hearing were permitted to do so. Time for filing 
ad<litional comments and views has expired; all those received and 
the entire record of the hearing have been considered by the Board. 
On the basis of the record and other relevant material, 
t h e ap pii c a t i o n s a r e approved for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date: Provided, That the proposed acquisition shall 
n o t be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
d a t e of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order; and that (c) The Island Trust Company shall be opened for 
business not later than six months after the date of this Order, unless 
t h e times specified in (b) and (c) are extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors ^February 17, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
jffctgg for thia action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
*£chellj Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
NEWPORT SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION, NEWPORT, RHODE ISLAND, 
FOR APPROVAL OF FORMATION OF A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
AND CONTINUATION OF ACTIVITIES OF A THRIFT INSTITUTION 
STATEMENT 
Applicant is a federally insured mutual savings and loan 
association. 
Such an association has indefinite corporate life and 
is a "company" within the meaning of section 2(b) of the Bank Holding 
Co*Pany Act.-' 
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board, Connecticut Bankers Association, 
a n d the American Bankers Association, have urged the Board to deny 
Applicant's 
proposal to become a bank holding company. In addition, 
rePresentatives of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board participated in the 
faring held in connection with the applications. Two basic issues 
*7ere raised by the parties objecting to Applicant's proposal. The 
first is the relationship between the present applications and the 
®°ard*s consideration, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act, of the permissibility 
^nerally of bank holding company ownership of a stock savings and 
loan association. The second issue relates to the public interest 
tn t. 
b e served in permitting a mutual association to own a commercial 
bank. 
Applicant presently holds $8.9 million in savings accounts, 
T7hich represents less than 6 per cent of the deposits and savings in 
t h e Newport County market, and is the fifth largest of the nine financial 
0rSani2ations operating in the market. The financial institutions 
with Applicant in the Newport County market include five 
T h e Rhode Island Legislature, in 1970, specifically authorized such mutual 
nla.°ciations to establish de novo a bank or trust company or to hold a 
^achrity ° f t h e i s s u e d a n d outstanding stock of a bank or trust comnanv. 
? mutual savings bank in Rhode Island owns a commercial bank subsidiary. 
X97f> Congress amended the Bank Holding Company Act to exempt from the 

- 2 -
451 
c°ntmercial banks, two mutual savings banks, and a credit union, all 
of which are authorized to offer checking account services. The two 
mutvial savings banks do so through commercial bank subsidiaries, and 
the credit union is able to accept demand deposits under a recently 
enacted State statute that permits a State chartered credit union with 
8hares of over $1 million to accept demand deposits. 
Applicant is at a distinct competitive disadvantage in not 
being able to offer checking account services to its customers. The 
economic data submitted indicate that Applicant's growth has generally 
la8ged behind that of the area's other financial institutions because 
°f this inability. The overall effect of this proposal should be to 
Promote competition by enabling Applicant to offer a full range of 
inking services similar to those offered by its major competitors. 
The financial condition of Applicant is generally satisfactory, 
lt8 management is considered competent, and its prospects upon con-
N a t i o n of this proposal appear favorable. Bank's management would 
be derived from Applicant, and its prospects appear favorable. The 
bai*iug n e e d s o f t h e residents of Bank's proposed service area appear 
t0 
adequately served at the present time by existing institutions, 
aUd consummation of this proposal would result in no new services. How-
eVer> Applicant would become an additional source of commercial banking 
^ / c S P T . ) A c t federally insured mutual savings banks which directly or 
0c 
rectly own one bank, if such ownership or control existed on the date 
a
 
enactment of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 and is 
An i i c a l ly authorized by applicable State law (§ 2(a)(5)(F)). Thus, if 
Pplieant had owned Bank prior to December 31, 1970, its continued ownership 
th* Bank would have been permissible under Federal and State law. 

452 
-3-
and this introduction of another banking alternative should 
benefit the residents of the area. In the Board's judgment, the balance 
the banking factors the Board is required to consider under section 
of the Act favors approval. 
In view of the history of close affiliation of mutual 
tllrift institutions and commercial banks in Rhode Island, the Board 
determined that Applicant's continuing to engage in the activities 
Of 
a thrift institution after acquisition of shares of the proposed new 
^ 
is an activity so closely related to Rhode Island banking as to 
be 
a Proper incident thereto. The Board believes that this special 
0c*e Island situation may and should be resolved separately from the 
^stion 
whether operation by a bank holding company of a savings and 
n association is generally so closely related to banking that it can 
be 
a Permissible activity within the meaning of section 4(c)(8) of 
th« Act. Approval of the applications would add a new bank to the 
COlnPetitive 
environment and permit the parent thrift institution to 
0lnPete more effectively with other organizations in which a thrift 
Station is combined with a commercial bank. This should produce 
nefits to the public of greater convenience and increased competition 
Vit, 
°ut any significant adverse effects. Accordingly, the considerations 
CJ-ng the competitive factors under section 3(c) and the balance 
Of th 
le public interest factors the Board must consider under section 
in permitting a holding company to engage in an activity on 
the b 
asis that it is closely related to banking both favor approval. 

v Conclusion. On the basis of all relevant facts before it, 
Eluding the record of the hearing relating to this matter, the Board 
E l u d e s that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
B« 1 
that the applications should be approved. 
I ><Y ' '' 
Pebruary 17, 1972. 

Item No. 
2/17/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
First National Financial Corporation, Kalamazoo, Michigan, 
has applied for the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Elding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank 
holding company through acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
,v°ting shares of The First National Bank and Trust Company of Michigan, 
^lamazoo, Michigan ("Kalamazoo Bank"); The Merchants & Miners Bank, 
Calumet,Michigan ("Calumet Bank"); and The Deerfield State Bank, Deer-
field, Michigan ("Deerfield Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
a<*ordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
an<* views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, a newly organized corporation, was formed by 
t h e Present management of the Kalamazoo Bank for the purpose of 
^coming a bank holding company. Upon consummation of the proposal 
her«*n, Applicant would control three subsidiary banks with total 
dePosits of approximately $282 million, representing about 1.3 per 
C e n t of the total commercial bank deposits in Michigan, and would be 
t h e eleventh largest banking organization in the State. (All banking 
d a t a are as of June 30, 1971.) 

455 
- 2 -
Kalamazoo Bank ($258.2 million deposits), located in SOUth-
Ves* 
C e m Michigan, operates 26 offices in and around the city of Kalamazoo, 
is the largest of twenty banks operating within its service area, 
11 is approximated by all of Kalamazoo County and portions of the 
counties adjacent thereto. Calumet Bank ($17.3 million deposts), 
cated in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, operates three offices, and 
tho 
second largest of the five banks operating within its service 
» which is approximated by all the Keeweenaw County and the greater 
Potti 
of Houghton County. Deerfield Bank ($6.5 million deposits), 
^Caten J in southeastern Michigan, operates one office, and is the 
est of the eighteen banks operating within its service area, which 
t8 
aPproximated by portions of Lenawee and Monroe Counties. The record 
*taci0 S e s that there is no significant existing competition among the 
Pto 
p0sed subsidiary banks, primarily due to the distances separating 
(520 miles and 90 miles separate Calumet Bank and Deerfield 
1 respectively, from the closest offices of the Kalamazoo Bank; and 
th* D e erfield Bank is located about 600 miles from the closest office of 
Cov 
~ulTlet Bank.) Moreover, in light of the restrictive Michigan branching 
*av» i 
* 
does not appear that any significant potential competition would 
f o 
reelosed as a result of consummation of Applicant's proposal. It 
t-u 
^ 
cnat the overall effect of the proposal on competition would 
av°rable, since the Deerfield Bank and Calumet Bank should be able 
0lnPete more effectively in their respective markets as subsidiaries 
0f A p P U c a n t . 
le 

48 
-3-
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant appear 
ha satisfactory, and its prospects, which are dependent upon those 
of it 
s subsidiary banks, appear to be favorable. The financial and 
na8erial resources and prospects of Deerfield Bank and Calumet Bank 
6 Satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. The 
notes that the capital position of the Kalamazoo Bank is somewhat 
ft, 
cnan desirable and should be augmented. Although the maintenance 
adequate capital positions at subsidiary banks of the holding company 
is a 
tatter of serious concern to the Board, the circumstances of this 
J 
0 not indicate that the situation warrants denial of the application. 
Lng company structure should offer better prospectB for improving 
hold^ 
the c 
aPital position of the Kalamazoo Bank. Other considerations relating 
financial and managerial resources and prospects of Kalamazoo Bank 
isfactory and consistent with approval of the application. 
The considerations relating to convenience and needs of the 
Coitutiunit-f 
Lies to be served lend weight toward approval of the application. 
a 
bsidiary of a holding company, Kalamazoo Bank would be in a 
b*ttet 
f Position to serve the growing needs of its service area. Further-
A 
Pplicant proposes to assist Deerfield Bank and Calumet Bank in 
**Pandin 
8 their services to include consumer loans, agricultural loans, 
*COtloMc h 
n 
Qevelopment, and computer services. Applicant will also be 
t 0 
assist its subsidiary banks by providing a source of qualified 
^ s m e n f 
^ 
JL personnel. It is the BoardTs judgment that consummation of 
pr°Posal would be in the public interest, and that the application 
°Uld be , 
u e approved. 

/ On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f°r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
Corisunaaated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°rde*» unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r bV the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
V e r i t y . 
i / 
By order of the Board of GovernorsFebruary 17, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEAl] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 U 5 5 I 
Item No. 11 
2/17/72 
March 1, 1972 
Mr. Dwight A. Ink 
Assistant Director 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
°ear Mr. Ink: 
I am writing in response to your letter of 
•January 7, 1972, inviting the Board to submit legislative 
Proposals for consideration by State legislatures. 
The Board of Governors has no proposals to 
submit for your consideration at this time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

m
m 
iiXK. 
B O A R D 
• F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item 
2/17/72 
A D O R E R S 
O F F I C I A L 
C G R R E B P D N D C N U E 
T D T H E 
H O A R D 
February 22, 1972 
Mr 
Ur.4 , 
Under the Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority Reserve 
kftnl-8' a r ° a u l' h o r i z e c' t o approve the acquisition of de novo banks by 
On/ 
companies providing that certain guidelines are met. 
4 * 
the. guidelines is that Reserve Banks might act if the financial 
taj! 
u t l°n is not dominant in the State. When these Rules were trans-
Vou
te(1 t 0 
Reserve Banks in the Board's-letter of January 17, 1972, 
iiJj.?0'*-'6 informed that you would be supplied with a list of financial 
W f
t
i
0
n
s 
reSarded as dominant. The attached list indicates those 
utions: 
(1) that nre. regarded as dominant in the States 
Stat°atGd; rLfHi U ) that might legally acquire (\e novo banks in those 
list will be changed from time to time as institutions 
irist!dde(i t o or deleted from it* Any application filed by a financial 
4tution on the list is to be forwarded to the Board for action. 
rUt,.,! 
Ve,ry truly yours, 
/ 7 " 
/••> 
^ 
Yj.- It^ss 
-C x 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
/ 
EncloSllte 
(B^nj't, and branches) 
AlS\,PRl2SlDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
THK VICE PRESIDENTS III CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

'^•lii'V-i. 
List of Financial Institutions That May Legally Acquire 
•SS. Novo Banks in the States Indicated and_ That Are Re-
garded as Dominant in Those States (from Data as of 
June 30, 1971) 
on 
;J ' W S 
Ssag-Oj:. Institutl 
VrJ i 
AJ-ey National Bank of Arizona, Phoenix 
of America OT&sA, San Francisco, California 
^Imington Trust Company, Wilmington, Delaware 
B<mk of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii 
* i r st Hawaiian Bank, Honolulu, Hawaii 
3T 
'" " 
aho First National Bank, Boise, Idaho 
ix'st National Bank of Boston, Boston, Massachusetts 
s t Bank System, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota 
0r"thwc;at Bancorporacion, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
n°vx a Bank &. Trust NA, Winston Salem, North Carolina 
Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, North Carolina 
States National Bank, Portland, Oregon 
Xnd 
ls(:£'ial National Bank of Providence, Providence, R.I. 
R I Tt. . 
u°Spital Trust Nat'l. Bank, Providence, Rhode Island 
So 
So 
Utl1 Carolina National Bank, Charleston, South Carolina 
Security Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah 
att].e Fi r st National Bank, Seattle, Washington 
sconsin Bankshares Corp0, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
X*8t Wis 
460 
i; 
i
