FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for January 28. 1971 
/ 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
L/i r 
fl 
u
} 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 
I m 
m 
• 
_ 

25? 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 28, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 

254' 
1/28/71 
- 2 -
Michigan consolidation cases. Drafts of orders and a statement 
had been distributed reflecting the following actions taken by the 
Board on January 14, 1971: 
(1) approval of the application of Chemical 
Bank and Trust Company, Midland, Michigan, for consolidation with The 
Commercial Savings Bank of Saint Louis; (2) denial of the application 
of Chemical Bank and Trust Company for consolidation with Gladwin 
County Bank, Beaverton; and (3) denial of the application of Citizens 
Bank and Trust Company, Clare, Michigan, for consolidation with The 
Farwell State Savings Bank. 
. i 
... 
•• !''-'«.'• 
. V. 
' 
The issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1. 
Mercantile Bancorporation. Drafts of an order and statement 
had been distributed reflecting approval on January 21, 1971, of the 
application of Mercantile Bancorporation, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of 
Mercantile Trust Company National Association, St. Louis, Mercantile-
Commerce Trust Company, St. Louis, and The Southern Missouri Trust 
Company, Springfield. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 2. 
Missouri Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated January 20, 1971, and other pertinent papers, 
including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection with an 

255' 
1/28/71 
-2-
application of Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to 
acquire shares of First Security Bank in Kirkwood, Kirkwood, Missouri. 
The application was approved unanimously and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
Barnett Banks of Florida. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated January 22, 1971, and other pertinent 
papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 
with the application of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, 
Florida, to acquire shares of International Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida. 
The application was approved unanimously and the issuance of the 
order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
C. B. Investment Corporation. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated January 20, 1971, and other pertinent 
papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 
with an application of C. B. Investment Corporation, Houston, Texas, 
to acquire shares of the successor by merger to First City National 
Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas. 
The application was approved unanimously and the issuance 
of the order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is 
attached as Item No. 5. 

256' 
1/28/71 
- 2 -
First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated January 22, 1971, and 
other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an 
application of First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation, Little Rock, 
Arkansas, to acquire shares of The Stephens Security Bank, Stephens, 
Arkansas. The Reserve Bank and staff recommendations were favorable. 
However, requests had been received from certain Arkansas banks for 
a delay in Board action on this application in view of a bill pending 
before the Arkansas legislature that would prohibit further expansion 
of holding companies in the State. The probability of the bill's 
imminent passage was discussed in a memorandum dated January 22, 1971, 
from Mr. Leavitt. 
It was agreed, in the circumstances, to defer action on the 
application. 
Stock purchases by State member banks. In a memorandum dated 
January 25, 1971, the Legal Division (Mrs. Heller) discussed the 
questions (1) whether a State member bank subsidiary of a registered 
bank holding company might acquire stock of an urban renewal development 
corporation to be organized under the New York Private Housing Finance 
Act and (2) whether a bank holding company's subsidiary banks might 
lawfully become members of and stockholders in a development credit 
corporation organized under the laws of New Mexico. The memorandum 
expressed the view that the sounder legal view would be that the 

257' 
1/28/71 
- 2 -
purchase of such shares by State member banks was barred by the prohi-
bitions in section 5136 of the U.S. Revised Statutes, although acqui-
sition of such stock by a bank holding company might be permissible 
under the provisions of section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
At today's meeting Mr. Sanders expressed the view that a legally 
defensible argument could be constructed in support of the proposed 
investment by the New York State member bank in question. There was a 
strong national policy to provide decent housing for low and moderate 
income citizens, and the activity under consideration would be for that 
purpose. The stock purchase prohibition of section 5136 should be 
viewed as much from the standpoint of its basic purposes as from the 
standpoint of its literal language. Its objectives had never been 
clearly defined, but a basic problem against which it was directed was 
to prevent banks from using depositors' funds for speculative purposes 
that might endanger the safety of depositors' funds. Even if the pro-
posed investment here concerned was considered a violation of section 
5136, the amount ($25,000) was so small that the violation might 
properly be regarded as de. minimis. 
Mr. Sanders suggested that a general interpretation might be 
developed that would consider 2 per cent of capital funds as die minimis, 
thus placing State member banks on a parity with national banks, but 
without regarding such investments as "charitable contributions." 

258' 
1/28/71 
- 2 -
Mr. Sanders felt, however, that the facts surrounding the pro-
posed investment in a development credit corporation organized under 
New Mexico law were not sufficiently clear at this time to reach a con-
clusion as to whether that investment might be supported on the same 
grounds. 
Comments reflected support by members of the Board for the 
rationale developed by Mr. Sanders, and it was agreed that the argument 
was sufficient to sanction the proposed stock acquisition in New York 
State. 
There was also agreement that the general question of investments 
• * ~ 
• » 
• 
in community development corporations should be referred to the Inter-
agency Coordinating Committee with a view to developing a uniform position. 
In this regard, it was suggested that an attempt be made to persuade the 
Comptroller of the Currency to modify the charitable contribution concept. 
There was also agreement that additional information would be 
• . 
• • : •• -o , 
t I iC ; •. .. 
• ' 
required before a decision could be reached with respect to the New 
Mexico development credit corporation. 
It was understood that the views of the Board regarding the 
proposed stock purchase in New York State would be transmitted to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, through which Bank the question had 
been raised. A copy of the letter to the New York Reserve Bank is 
attached as Item No. 6. It was understood, however, that additional 
information with regard to the New Mexico question would be sought. 

259' 
1/28/71 
-2-
A copy of the letter requesting such information is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Unusual banking transactions. The Department of Justice had 
requested that information relating to transactions between member banks 
and certain specified offshore organizations be reported to the Depart-
ment in connection with its nation-wide investigation of those organiza-
tions. 
In a memorandum dated January 22, 1971, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation and the Legal Division recommended that the Board 
cooperate with the Department in obtaining and transmitting such 
information. 
In addition, the Divisions recommended that the Board bring 
to the attention of the Reserve Banks, for whatever action the latter 
deemed appropriate, (1) the fact that banking organizations headquartered 
on islands off the British mainland were not under the supervision of 
the British banking authorities and (2) information pertaining to certain 
unusual deposit plans currently being offered through European banks to 
commercial banks in the United States. Attached to the memorandum was 
a draft letter. 
Comments were generally favorable to the recommendations. 
How-
ever, a restructuring of the draft letter was suggested to emphasize 
the request of the Department of Justice and to avoid specificity with 
respect to other organizations reportedly involved in unusual transactions. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Banks in the form attached as Item No. 8. A copy of the reply to the 
Department of Justice is attached as Item No. 9. 

260' 
1/28/71 
-2-
Consent procedure. 
In a memorandum dated January 25, 1971, 
Governor Sherrill described a consent procedure which he recommended 
be followed with respect to certain competitive factor reports, bank 
mergers, and holding company acquisitions. Under the contemplated proce-
dure, consent items (designated as such by the Program Director for 
Banking Structure or, in his absence, the Director of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation) would be included on the Board's regular 
agenda and approved en masse without discussion unless a Board member 
either requested, prior to the meeting, that an item listed on the 
tentative agenda as a consent item be placed among the regular items, 
or requested, during the meeting, that a particular item be removed 
from the consent calendar for consideration at a subsequent meeting. 
Comments indicated concurrence with the proposal. 
However, 
reservations were expressed as to the advisability of withholding,at 
least at this juncture, Reserve Bank memoranda from the case material 
that would be furnished to Board members. 
It was understood that consideration of a consent item would 
not necessarily have to be deferred for a future meeting, even if 
discussion was requested, provided a majority of the Board members 
present agreed to discuss the matter at the time the question was raised. 
Unanimous approval was then given to initiation of a consent 
calendar approach along the lines suggested. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 

261' 
1/28/71 
-2-
Emergency loans. Following discussion, unanimous approval 
was given to a telegram to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
Banks extending for six months, to August 1, 1971, the authority 
granted in the Board's letter of December 24, 1969, for emergency 
loans to nonmember depositary-type institutions. A copy of the 
: telegram is attached as Item No. 10. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
S'slil -

UNITED STATES 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF 
WASHINGTON, 
Item No. 1 
1/28/71 
OF AMERICA 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CHEMICAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, 
Midland, Michigan, 
for approval of consolidation with 
Gladwin County Bank, 
Beaverton, Michigan. 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Chemical Bank and 
Trust Company, Midland, Michigan, a member State bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the consolidation of that 
bank with Gladwin County Bank, Beaverton, Michigan, under the charter and 
name of the former institution. Notice of the proposed consolidation, in 
approved by the Board, has been published as required by said Act. 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on 
^ e competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Board 
considered all relevant material contained in the record in the light 
f the factors set forth in the Act, including the effect of the proposal 
competition, the financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION 
FOR CONSOLIDATION OF BANKS 
UNDER BANK MERGER ACT 

2GZ 
-2-
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and upon such consideration, 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 28, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
> 
\ 
. 
U 

264? 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CHEMICAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, 
Midland, Michigan, 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION 
FOR CONSOLIDATION OF BANKS 
UNDER BANK MERGER ACT 
for approval of consolidation with 
The Commercial Savings Bank of Saint Louis, 
Saint Louis, Michigan. 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Chemical Bank and 
Trust Company, Midland, Michigan, a member State bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the consolidation of 
that bank with The Commercial Savings Bank of Saint Louis, Saint Louis, 
Michigan, under the charter and the name of the former institution. As 
an incid ent to the proposed consolidation, the sole office of The Commercial 
Savings Bank of Saint Louis would become a branch office of the resulting 
bank. Notice of the proposed consolidation, in form approved by the Board, 
has been published pursuant to said Act. 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on the 
c°mpetitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Board 
considered all relevant material contained in the record in the light 

-2-
of the factors set forth in the Act, including the effect of the proposal 
on competition, the financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and upon such consideration, 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 28, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

266? 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CITIZENS BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, 
Clare, Michigan, 
for approval of consolidation with 
The Farwell State Savings Bank, 
Farwell, Michigan. 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Citizens Bank and 
Trust Company, Clare, Michigan, a member State bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the consolidation of that 
bank with The Farwell State Savings Bank, Farwell, Michigan, under the 
charter and name of the former institution. Notice of the proposed con-
solidation, i n form approved by the Board, has been published as required 
bV said Act, 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on 
competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
o f the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Board 
considered all relevant material contained in the record in the light 
the factors set forth in the Act, including the effect of the proposal 
on n 
competition, the financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION 
FOR CONSOLIDATION OF BANKS 
UNDER BANK MERGER ACT 

Tamr 
16 
-2-
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and upon such consideration, 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 28, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
1 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY CHEMICAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, MIDLAND, 
MICHIGAN, FOR APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATIONS WITH GLADWIN COUNTY BANK, 
BEAVERTON, MICHIGAN, AND THE COMMERCIAL SAVINGS BANK OF 
SAINT LOUIS, SAINT LOUIS, MICHIGAN, AND APPLICATION BY CITIZENS 
BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, CLARE, MICHIGAN, FOR APPROVAL OF 
CONSOLIDATION WITH THE FARWELL STATE SAVINGS BANK, FARWELL, MICHIGAN 
STATEMENT 
Chemical Bank and Trust Company ("Chemical Bank-Midland"), 
Midland, Michigan, a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
has filed applications, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 
1828(c)), for the prior approval of the Board of Governors for the con-
solidation by merger of that bank with Gladwin County Bank ("Gladwin 
Bank"), Beaverton, Michigan, and with The Commercial Savings Bank of 
Saint Louis ("St. Louis Bank"), Saint Louis, Michigan, each under the 
charter and name of Chemical Bank-Midland. There has also come before 
the Board an application by Citizens Bank and Trust Company ("Clare Bank"), 
Clare, Michigan, a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, pur-
suant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the prior approval 
°f the Board of the consolidation by merger of that bank with The Farwell 
state Savings Bank ("Farwell Bank"), Farwell, Michigan, under the charter 
an<l name of Clare Bank. If the applications should be approved, the 
Present offices of Gladwin Bank and St. Louis Bank would be operated as 
Ranches of Chemical Bank-Midland and the present office of Farwell Bank 
be operated as a branch of Clare Bank. 

269 
-2-
Although each of the applications has been separately considered 
Es.», 
and is the subject of a separate Board Order, because of facts and circum-
stances common to the three applications, including common ownership 
1/ 
factors, 
this Statement contains the Board's findings and conclusions 
if*' 
with respect to all three applications, 
I. The Proposed Consolidation of Chemical Bank-Midland with Gladwin Bank 
A. Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Chemical 
Bank-Midland (deposits $70 million) 
operates its head office and two 
branch offices within the city limits of Midland (pop. 34,000), and an 
additional branch office to the south of and in close proximity to Midland. 
It also 
operates one branch in Fisherville, located seven miles east of 
Midland; and one branch office in Sanford, located eight miles northwest 
°f Midland. Chemical Bank-Midland is the largest bank located in Midland, 
holding more than two times the amount of deposits held by the only other 
bank located in Midland (First National Bank & Trust Company (deposits 
$31 million)). Gladwin Bank (deposits $6 million) operates its sole 
office 
in Beaverton (pop. 1,000), which is located approximately 23 miles 
north of Midland. Chemical Bank-Midland1s Sanford branch, located about 
miles from Beaverton, is the closest of that bank's offices to Gladwin 
Bank. 
i/ Midland Investment Company and Currie-Todd Investments, partnerships 
0vmed by officers and directors of Chemical Bank-Midland, hold controlling 
st°ck interests in Gladwin Bank, St. Louis Bank, and Clare Bank, and a 
substantial stock interest in Farwell Bank. 
V Unless otherwise noted, all data cited herein are as of June 30, 1970. 

270 
-2-
The relevant market within which the competitive impact of the 
proposed consolidation is to be considered is approximated by the southern 
one-half of Gladwin County (including Beaverton) and the northern and 
central portion of Midland County (which includes the City of Midland). 
There are presently located in the Midland-Gladwin market area offices 
of five commercial banks which have market shares (percentage of Midland-
Gladwin deposits held by those banks as of June 30, 1968) as follows: 
Chemical Bank and Trust Company 
60.3 per cent 
First National Bank & Trust Company 
25.9 per cent 
First State Savings Bank 
6.2 per cent 
Gladwin County Bank 
4.2 per cent 
Citizens Bank and Trust Company 
3.4 per cent 
The proposed consolidation would combine the largest and fourth 
largest banks in the Midland-Gladwin market. The resulting bank would 
hold about 65 per cent of the deposits held by commercial banks in the 
market. 
The Midland-Gladwin banking market is already a very highly 
concentrated banking market. The two largest banks located there hold 
about 86 per cent of banking deposits, with Chemical Bank-Midland holding 
the dominant share (60.3 per cent). Consummation of the proposed trans-
ition would increase concentration in the Midland-Gladwin banking market 
to a significant degree and would entrench Chemical Bank-Midland in its 
d°minant position as the largest holder of commercial banking deposits 

271 
-2-
in the highly concentrated Midland-Gladwin banking market. At the same 
time, Gladwin Bank would be eliminated as a competitor in the market 
and the number of banking alternatives in the market would be reduced 
a-
from five to four. In this context, the Board is not persuaded that 
M« 
Gladwin Bank cannot be regarded as being in competition with Chemical 
Bank-Midland because of common ownership features which were established 
in January 1970. The recent acquisition of stock in Gladwin Bank by 
officers and directors of Chemical Bank-Midland should not serve to 
establish a base upon which to sanction an anticompetitive consolidation, 
closing off any prospect of disaffiliation and thereby eliminating an 
independent competitor in the market and the potential for eventual 
^concentration of the market." 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
financial conditions, managements, and prospects of Chemical Bank-Midland 
and Gladwin Bank are regarded as satisfactory. Considerations relating 
t o the banking factors, as applied to the proposed transaction, therefore, 
*Qnd no weight toward approval of the proposed transaction. 
C. Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - There 
is no evidence that the general banking needs of the Midland-Gladwin 
Market are going unserved at the present time. Consummation of the 
Proposed consolidation would enable Gladwin Bank to provide its customers 
3/ There is evidence in the record which indicates that if the consolidation 
denied there is a substantial possibility that stock held in Gladwin 
k by Chemical Bank-Midland interests would be sold. 

272 
-2-
with more convenient access to increased lending limits and trust and 
data processing services. These factors lend slight weight toward 
approval of the application. 
D. Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth 
in the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), it is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposed consolidation would have a seriously 
adverse competitive impact in the Midland-Gladwin market not clearly 
outweighed by the benefits of the consolidation in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the community. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be denied. 
The Proposed Consolidation of Chemical Bank-Midland with St. Louis Bank 
A. Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - As 
Previously set forth above, Chemical Bank-Midland maintains its offices 
in 
or in close proximity to the City of Midland and east and northwest 
hereof in the Midland-Gladwin market. St. Louis Bank (deposits $17 million) 
°Perates its sole office in Saint Louis, Michigan (pop. 4,000), which is 
located about 23 miles to the southwest of the City of Midland. The 
b a n k s serve separate markets and there is no substantial existing 
c°mpetition between them. 

273 
-2-
There are six commercial banks located in the Saint Louis area 
which are considered to be in direct competition with St. Louis Bank, 
They are: Bank of Alma (deposits $30 million) and Central National Bank 
of Alma (deposits $9 million), both located in Alma three miles to the 
southwest of Saint Louis; Commercial National Bank (deposits $18 million), 
located in Ithaca eight miles to the south of Saint Louis; Shepherd State 
Bank (deposits $7 million), located nine miles to the northwest of Saint 
Louis; Farmers State Bank in Breckenridge (deposits $10 million), located 
six miles east of Saint Louis; and Farmers & Merchants State Bank in 
Merrill (deposits $4 million), located 14 miles east of Saint Louis. No 
adverse impact is foreseen on these banks arising from consummation of the 
consolidation of Chemical Bank-Midland and St. Louis Bank. Further, under 
current Michigan banking law providing home-office and branch-office pro-
tection, Chemical Bank-Midland would be prohibited from establishing a de 
£ovo branch office in the communities in which St. Louis Bank and its 
competitor banks are located. Since the other areas intervening between 
Midland and Saint Louis are but sparsely settled, it appears unlikely that 
Chemical Bank-Midland would establish a de novo branch in these areas. There 
is> therefore, no significant potential for the establishment of competition 
between Chemical Bank-Midland and St. Louis Bank. 
B. Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
financial condition, management, and prospects of Chemical Bank-Midland 
a t e satisfactory. The financial condition and management of St. Louis 
**ank are reasonably satisfactory. The proposed consolidation would appear 
to enhance its future prospects. 

274 
-2-
The banking factors, therefore, as they relate to the proposed 
consolidation between Chemical Bank-Midland and St. Louis Bank lend slight 
weight toward approval of the application. 
C. Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposed transaction would not affect present customers 
of Chemical Bank-Midland. 
The proposed consolidation would make available to present 
customers of St. Louis Bonk increased lending limits and a relaxation of 
restrictive lending policies which have been followed by St. Louis Bank in 
the granting of agricultural, mortgage, and consumer installment credit. 
While there is no evidence in the record to indicate that the major financial 
needs of the Saint Louis area are, at present, going unserved, the factors 
set forth above lend slight weight toward approval of the application. 
D. Summary and conclusion. - The proposed consolidation would 
eliminate no substantial existing or potential competition between the 
banks. The banking and convenience and needs factors lend some weight 
toward approval of the application. The Board concludes, therefore, 
that the application is in the public interest and should be approved. 
The Proposed Consolidation of Clare Bank with Farwell Bank 
A. Competitive cffect of the proposed transaction. - Clare 
Sank (deposits $25 million) maintains its head office in Clare, Clare 
°unty, 
Michigan. 
It maintains one branch in Rosebush, Clare County, 
Clare 
County abuts on Gladwin County on the east and Midland County 
° n the south. 

seven miles to the south of Clare and one branch in Coleman, Gladwin 
County, located nine miles to the southeast of Clare, 
Farwell Bank (deposits $5 million) maintains Its sole office 
in Farwell, Clare County, which is located five miles east of Clare. The 
two towns are connected by a major highway, maintain cooperative educational 
facilities, and have tended to become closely integrated economically. 
The banks do not experience significant competition from any other bank. 
The relevant market, therefore, within which the competitive impact of 
the proposed consolidation is to be considered is the Clare-Farwell 
market. 
Clare Bank and Farwell Bank are the only two banks located in 
the market. Thus, the proposed consolidation would eliminate the sole 
5/ 
alternative 
source of banking services in the Clare-Farwell market. 
B. Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
financial condition and management of Clare Bank is regarded as satisfactory 
a^d its future prospects good. The financial condition and prospects of 
Farwell Bank are regarded as satisfactory. Farwell Bank's management has 
been considered satisfactory; however, there appears to have developed a 
- Consistent with the conclusion reached with respect to the Chemical 
^ank-Midland and Gladwin Bank consolidation in this regard, the Board is 
*J°t persuaded that the stock interests recently acquired by officers and 
jjirectors of Chemical Bank-Midland in Clare Bank in 1969 and in Farwell 
ank in 1970 lead logically to the conclusion that the banks cannot be 
*"egarded as competitors. Further, as in the case of the Chemical Bank-
i^land and Gladwin Bank situation, there is evidence in the record herein 
which indicates that if this application for consolidation is denied, the 
stock in Farwell Bank would probably be sold. 

276 
-2-
management succession problem at Farwell Bank due to the ill health of 
its President. There is no showing, however, that Farwell Bank's manage-
ment succession problem is not capable of solution absent the drastic step 
of its consolidation with the only other bank located in its market area. 
The banking factors, therefore, lend no significant weight to approval of 
the application. 
C. Convenience and needs of the communities concerned. - There 
is no evidence that the major financial needs of the Clare-Farwell market 
are not being met at present. Considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs factors, therefore, lend no significant weight toward approval 
°f the application. 
D. Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), it is the Board's judgment that con-
summation of the proposed transaction, a consolidation of the only two 
banks located in the Clare-Farwell market, would have a seriously adverse 
effect on competition in the Clare-Farwell market and would not be clearly 
°utweighed in the public interest by the convenience and needs of the 
c°tnmunity. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should be 
denied. 
JarUiary 28, 1971. 

277? 
Item No. 2 
1/28/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MERCANTILE BANCORPORATION, INC., 
St. Louis, Missouri, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Mercantile Bancorporation, Inc., 
S t* Louis, Missouri, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the merger 
Mercantile Trust Company National Association, St. Louis, Missouri, 
i n t 0 a nonoperating bank of which Applicant plans to own all but 
di 
lectors' qualifying shares, and, as an incident to the merger, 
acquisition of indirect ownership of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
S s directors1 qualifying shares) of Mercantile-Commerca Trust Company, 

St. Louis, Missouri; and through acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of The Southern 
Missouri Trust Company, Springfield, Missouri, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the Commissioner of Finance of the State of Missouri, 
and requested their views and recommendations. The Deputy Comptroller 
recommended approval of the application, and the Commissioner offered 
no objection to approval. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 7, 1970 (35 Federal Register 17224), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
f°r its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
l s approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
aAnimated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
0 ^ 
this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order 
l> unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated 
^thority. 

28 
-2-
By order of the Board of Governors, January 28, 1971, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Keiroeth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
" h • l 

280? 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MERCANTILE BANCORPORATION, INC., ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Mercantile Bancorporation, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
°f action to become a registered bank holding company through the 
merger of Mercantile Trust Company National Association, St. Louis, 
Missonri, ("Mercantile N.A."), into a nonoperating bank of which 
Applicant plans to own all but directors1 qualifying shares and, as an 
lr*cident to the merger, acquisition of indirect ownership of 100 
per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
o f Mercantile-Commerce Trust Company, St. Louis, Missouri, ("Mercantile-
Commerce"); and through acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting 
shares (less directors1 qualifying shares) of The Southern Missouri 
t r u at Company, Springfield, Missouri, ("Southern"). The shares of 
^tcantile-Commerce Trust Company are owned by Mercantile Commerce 
CoRipany, all the shares of which are held by trustees for the benefit 
of t, 
n e shareholders of Mercantile N.A.; as a result of the merger, 
Appi j a n t would succeed to the beneficial ownership of all the shares 

281 
-2-
of Mercantile Commerce Company. After the aforementioned merger, 
Applicant proposes to terminate the trust and become the direct 
owner of Mercantile Commerce Company, and Mercantile-Commerce Trust 
Company would be a second-tier subsidiary of Applicant. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
the Commissioner of Finance of the State of Missouri, and requested 
their views and recommendations. The Deputy Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application, and the Commissioner offered no objection 
to approval. 
Statutory considerations« - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
° r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 

into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
- Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Missouri on the basis of deposits, six of 
which are registered bank holding companies, control 40.2 per cent 
1/ 
of total commcrcial bank deposits in the State. 
Applicant's 
proposed lead bank, Mercantile N3A. ($841 million deposits) is the 
State's largest banking organization and controls 8.3 per cent of 
total commercial bank deposits in the State. Upon consummation of 
the proposal, Applicant would control 9.0 per cent of State-wide 
deposits, and would become the State's largest bank holding company. 
Mercantile N.A., located in downtown St. Louis, holds 19.7 
per cent of commercial bank deposits in the St. Louis - St. Louis 
County area, which approximates that bank's relevant market area, 
and is the largest of the seventy-two banks in the area. Each of 
the next three largest banks in that area is affiliated with a St. 
Louis based holding company. 
Mercantile-Commerce ($45.8 million deposits), located 2.3 
^iles from Mercantile N.A., is the 19th largest commercial bank in 
St. Louis - St. Louis County area and holds 1.07 per cent of the 
c°mmercial bank deposits therein. By virtue of its ownership of 
All banking data arc as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding 
^Pany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

-2-
283 
Mercantile N.A. and Mercantile-Commerce, Applicant would control 20.8 
per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the area. 
Southern Bank ($26 million deposits) is located in Springfield, 
220 miles southwest of Mercantile N.A. Sputhern is the fourth largest 
of the 12 banks in Greene County, the bank's relevant market, and con-
trols 10.3 per cent of aggregate commercial bank deposits. 
Consummation of the proposal would eliminate no existing 
competition between Southern and the two St. Louis based banks. 
In the light of the distance between St. Louis and Springfield and 
Missouri's restrictive branching law, it appears unlikely that any 
significant future competition would develop. 
Although Mercantile N.A. and Mercantile-Commerce are located 
in the same market, the two banks do not compete with each other, primarily 
because of a relationship between the two banks based upon common owner-
ship and management that has existed for over 40 years. The legality 
of the relationship was questioned in the Missouri courts some years 
ago, but the relationship was not held to be illegal. There appears 
little likelihood of disaffiliation in the foreseeable future and, 
Without approving or condoning the origin or existence of said relation-
8hip, the Board believes that the status of that relationship is not 
itself ground for denying the application. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of the proposal would not result in a monopoly or be 
^ furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 

284 
-2-
the business of banking in any part of the United States, and would not 
restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a 
monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects, -
Applicant would begin operations in a satisfactory financial condition. 
Its management is considered competent, and its prospects, which are 
dependent upon those of its proposed subsidiaries, appear to be 
favorable. 
The financial condition and the management of each of the 
proposed subsidiaries is regarded as satisfactory and the prospects of 
each appear favorable. 
The banking factors, as they relate to Applicant and its 
proposed subsidiaries, are consistent with approval. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
Najor banking needs of the St. Louis area appear to be adequately 
served by present banking facilities and would not be materially 
affected by consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
The major banking needs of the Springfield area also appear 
t o be adequately served at the present time. However, affiliation 
with Applicant should enable Southern to become a stronger competitor 
its market. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
t he areas involved are consistent with approval of the application. 

Summary and conclusion, - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the pro-
posed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
January 28, 1971 

Item No. 3 
2 8 G 
1/28/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MISSOURI BANCSHARES, INCORPORATED, 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
First Security Bank in Kirkwood, 
Kirkwood, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Missouri Bancshares, Incor-
porated, Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
oompany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 
cent or more of the voting shares of First Security Bank in 
Kirkwood, Kirkwood, Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Missouri 

287 
-2-
Commissioner of Finance and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner stated he did not object to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 12, 1970 (35 Federal Register 18934), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant controls five banks with deposits of $361 million 
representing approximately 3-1/2 per cent of the commercial bank 
deposits in Missouri. It is the fourth largest holding company 
and fifth largest banking organization in the State. (All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding company acquisitions 
approved by the Board through December 31, 1970). Bank (deposits 
$21 million) is located 15 miles southwest of downtown St, Louis, 

The proposal represents Applicant's first entry into the St. Louis 
area, and Applicant's nearest subsidiary to Bank is located 135 miles 
west of Kirkwood in Boonville. Wo significant competition between 
Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries existc, and, because of distances 
and restrictive State branching laws, such competition is unlikely 
to develop. Bank is the smaller of two banks in Kirkwood, and the 
third largest of seven banks serving the city and environs with 19 
per cent of that area's deposits. The largest bank, which controls 
26 per cent of area deposits, is owned by the individual who controls 
Bank. Acquisition by Applicant of Bank would terminate the affiliation 
and would result in an additional banking alternative for area residents. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concluded that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have a substantially 
adverse effect on competition in any area, and could stimulate 
competition in the Kirkwood area. The banking factors are consistent 
with approval of the application. The banking needs of Bank's 
customers are being adequately served, although consummation of the 
acquisition would provide an additional alternative for such services 
trust services. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 

It is hereby ordered; For the reasons set forth in the-v-
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 28, 1971 . 
Voting for this action: Qhaiman Burns and Governors 
Daane, ilaisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not votings Governors Robertson and Mitchell 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon' 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

290? 
Item No. 4 
1/28/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
EARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC,, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
International Bank of Tampa, Tampa, 
Florida* 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
wore of the voting shares of International Bank of Tampa, Tampa, 
Florida ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Commissioner 

291 
-2-
of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 16, 1970 (35 Federal Register 19036), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and mana-
gerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the third largest banking organization in 
Florida controlling 24 banks with $626 million in deposits, repre-
senting 5.1 per cent of the deposits held by all banking organizations 
in the State. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to 
reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
Board through December 31, 1970.) Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
(deposits of $13 million) would increase its share of deposits in 
t he State by only one tenth of 1 per cent. Bank is one of the 
smaller banks in Tampa, and is the sixteenth largest of 23 conanercial 

3-
292 
banks serving Hillsborough County (other than Plant City), holding 
only 1.6 per cent of the deposits in that area. 
Applicant's two closest subsidiaries to Bank are located 23 
miles from Bank in Pinellas County, across Tampa Bay. Because of the 
location of the three banks there is little meaningful competition 
between these two subsidiaries and Bank and little possibility that 
more competition will develop in the future. Through affiliation with 
Applicant, Bank would be in a stronger position to compete with its 
much larger competitors in Hillsborough County, two of which each have 
deposits in excess of $190 million. Because of this factor, the 
acquisition of Bank is likely to have a pro-competitive effect in the 
Hillsborough County area. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on compe-
tition in any relevant area. The banking factors as they pertain to 
Applicant and its subsidiary banks are consistent with approval of the 
application, and as they pertain to Bank lend support for approval 
Applicant plans to provide Bank with additional capital and with stronger 
Management. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
banking customers in Hillsborough County are consistent with approval 
°f the application. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
bindings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 

2f\3 
-4-
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 28, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Mitchell. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. 5 
1/28/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
Cn Bo INVESTMENT CORPORATION, 
Houston, Texas, 
for approval of acquisition of 100 
per cent of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of 
the successor by merger to First 
City National Bank of Houston, 
Houston, Texas. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of G. B. Investment Corporation, 
Houston, Texas ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent 
of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the 
successor by merger to First City National Bank of Houston, Houston, 
Texas ("Bank"). The successor bank only has significance as a means 
to facilitate the acquisition of all the voting shares of Bank, and 

295 
-2-
the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor bank is treated as 
the proposed acquisition of shares of Bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller responded that he had no objection to approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 1, 1970 (35 Federal Register 18304), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
1 
Applicant, with control of four banks in the suburban 
Houston area with deposits of $48 million representing .2 per cent 
the bank deposits in Texas, is the smallest registered bank holding 
c°nipany i n the State and is not among the ten largest banking organizations. 

296 
-2-
i 
' ! 
(Banking data are as of June 30* i970, and represent holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved to date.) Additionally, Applicant 
owns less than 5 per cent of the stock of 12 banks, and between 5 per cent 
and 25 per cent of the shares of four banks in that area. Although 
Applicant presently owns less than 1 per cent of the shares of Bank 
(deposits of $930 million), the largest of 127 banks in Houston, a 
close relationship has existed between the two since Applicant's forma-
tion0 Applicant was organized by shareholders of Bank in 1950 to hold 
shares of suburban Houston banks, and it has been staffed by Bank-related 
personnel since that time. At the present time, persons ox^ning 24 per 
cent of Bank's shares control 100 per cent of Applicant's stock. An 
additional indication of the close relationship existing between 
Applicant and Bank is the fact that four of the banks in which Applicant 
has an ownership interest of 5 per cent or more are majority controlled 
by stockholders who own more than 50 per cent of the stock of the Bank. 
The present proposal would result in a strengthening of the existing 
relationship, but would appear to have no significant effect on existing 
or potential competition. On consummation of the acquisition, Applicant, 
rather than Bank, would be the third largest banking organization in 
Texas and would control 4.3 per cent of deposits in the State* 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consumma-
tion of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on competition 
in any relevant area. The banking factors are regarded as consistent 
with approval. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 

297 
-2-
of the communities to be served are also consistent with approval of 
the application. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved, 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 28j 1971. 
Voting for this action: chairman Bums and Governors Daane, 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Mitchell. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/28/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 4, 1971 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
This refers to a letter of December 14, 1970 from 
Richard G. Birmingham, Esq. asking your bank whether Marine 
Midland Bank-Western, a State member bank, may acquire all of 
the stock of an urban renewal development corporation to be 
organized under the New York Private Housing Finance Act. The 
amount of the proposed investment is $25,000. 
Section 5136 of the United States Revised Statutes 
generally prohibits a national bank from purchasing corporate 
stock. This prohibition is made applicable to State member 
banks by the provisions of the twentieth paragraph of section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The Board has considered the proposed investment in the 
light of the strong national policy for decent housing for low or 
moderate income citizens and its understanding that the develop-
ment corporation's functions will be in furtherance of that policy. 
It has reviewed the purposes of the prohibition against bank pur-
chase of corporate stock and the Comptroller of the Currency's 
position that similar expenditures by national banks are permissible 
as contributions to community development. 
The Board believes that the question of member bank 
investment in community development corporations merits consid-
eration by the Interagency Coordinating Committee and has asked 
its representative, Governor Mitchell, to raise it with the 
Committee at an appropriate early date with a view toward the 
agencies developing a uniform position on the matter. 
J 
In the meantime, the Board has concluded that, even if 
the proposed investment by Marine Midland Bank-Western should be 
regarded as a violation of section 5136, the amount of the invest-
ment by the member bank will be so small relative to the amount of 
its capital accounts that the violation may properly be regarded 
| l l [ f p y 
f«AL Rt^ -' 

Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
-2-
a s 
minimis. Consistent with the purpose of the stock-purchase 
prohibition and the Board's understanding of the Comptroller's 
practice with respect to similar expenditures by national banks, 
the bank should charge off its investment against its capital 
during the accounting period in which the expenditure is made. 
The Board would appreciate your conveying these views 
to Mr. Birmingham. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 7 
• F T H E 
1/28/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 4, 1971 
William C. Schauer, Esq. 
P. 0. Box 515 
Alamogordo, New Mexico 88310 
Dear Mr. Schauer: 
This refers to your letters of November 13 and December 8, 
1970, relating to the question whether it is permissible for Bank 
Securities, Inc.'s subsidiary banks to become members and stock-
holders of a Development Credit Corporation organized under 
Chapter 51-23-1 of New Mexico Statutes, 1953 Annotated, and for 
the holding company to acquire (by virtue of stock ownership by 
the bank subsidiaries) indirect control of more than 5 per cent 
of the outstanding stock of such a corporation. 
Before an informed judgment may be reached on the 
questions you have raised, it is necessary that further informa-
tion be furnished with respect to the formation and activities of 
the Credit Corporation. Such information should include, for 
example, information on whether the Credit Corporation you have 
in mind is already in existence or is proposed to be organized; 
the names and principal occupations of the organizers or sponsors; 
the name of the Credit Corporation and the location of its place(s) 
of business; whether the Credit Corporation is limited to lending 
and borrowing activities (or the share of its business such activi-
ties constitute); the number, size, terms, and purposes of loans 
by such corporation; any limitations for prospective borrowers 
(such as income level, financial worth, location in slum areas); 
whether and in what respects and to what extent and for what pur-
poses the Credit Corporation plans to use the powers granted 
under New Mexico law to "purchase, hold, lease, otherwise acquire 
and to convey any property . . . in connection with loans" (in-
cluding restrictions as to the nature of such property, its 
location, its value, or the sale, rental or other disposition 
of such property); whether the power of such Credit Corporation 

301? 
William C. Schauer, Esq. 
-2-
to purchase bonds, stocks, etc., of any corporation and to sell or 
otherwise dispose of them, granted under New Mexico law, is to be 
limited to the securities of particular types of corporations, 
such as community rehabilitation and development corporations en-
gaged in providing better housing, employment, or business oppor-
tunities for low-income or moderate-income persons; types of 
situations and terms for extensions of credit "where credit is not 
readily available through normal credit channels"; whether officers 
or directors of the holding company or its subsidiary banks are 
expected to be officers or directors of the Credit Corporation; 
whether officers or directors of the Credit Corporation have inter-
locking relationships with any other financial institutions (if 
known); whether the Credit Corporation is to be wholly-owned by 
the banks in the Bank Securities, Inc. system; which, if any, 
organizations outside the Bank Securities Inc. system are expected 
to be members; the dollar amount of investment to be made by the 
subsidiary banks in the Credit Corporation and the per cent of 
shares to be owned by each (and by any other organization or 
individuals, if known); whether the Credit Corporation is likely 
to be identified by the public with Bank Securities, Inc. or its 
subsidiaries; charter provisions for the distribution of earnings 
of the Credit Corporation and liability for losses and provisions 
with respect to dissolution of the Credit Corporation; liabilities 
and privileges of members as distinct from stockholders; the number 
of development credit corporations organized, or proposed to be 
organized, in the State (if known) and whether Bank Securities, 
Inc. or any of its subsidiary banks proposes to become a member 
or stockholder of more than one such Credit Corporation. 
In connection with furnishing information on the 
activities of the Credit Corporation, you may wish to refer to a 
proposed regulation, which the Board has recently issued for com-
ment, designed to authorize a bank holding company to acquire 
(or retain) an interest in the shares of a company that engages 
solely in one or more of 10 listed activities. For your conve-
nience, enclosed is a copy of the Board's proposed regulation 
and the press release relating thereto. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
\ 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosures 

'f 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No, 
1/28/71 
302? 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 29, 1971 
The Department of Justice is conducting a nationwide 
investigation into the activities of certain offshore organizations: 
Bank of Sark, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands; First Liberty 
Fund, Limited, Nassau, Bahamas; Transcontinental Casualty Insurance 
Company, Limited, Nassau, Bahamas. They have requested that all 
transactions (e.g., loans or checks deposited for collection) between 
these organizations and member banks be reported to them. Please 
inform member banks in your District of the Department's request, and 
forward replies, if any, to the Board for review and transmiXtal to 
the Department, 
The following is brought to your attention for your informa-
tion and for such action as you may deem appropriate: 
a. Banking organizations headquartered off the British 
mainland generally are not under the supervision of the British banking 
authorities. Many of these organizations (in addition to Bank of Sark) 
are reported to be extensively involved in transactions involving U.S. 
. citizens in areas such as insurance companies in Nassau, offshore mutual 
funds, and money brokering. While reputable banking organizations are 
located offshore for valid business purposes, transactions involving 
unregulated organizations might appropriately be carefully scrutinized. 
b. The Board has been advised of several deposit plans 
currently being offered to commercial banks in the United States. 
Generally, the minimum deposit is $1 million; the preferred maturity 
is 20 years; the stated interest rate is 3 per cent per annum payable 
semiannually in advance; the certificate is issued at a discount and 
the bank pays a finder's fee. The compensation paid by the bank 
(approximately 4.7 per cent per year) is consistent with Regulation Q, 
and is less than the prevailing rate. 

303 
-2-
It is understood that the deposit in the United States bank 
cones through a European bank. For example, the depositor places 
$940,000 in a European bank. That bank retains $10,000 for handling 
the transaction and remits $930,000 to the United States bank for a 
$1 million time certificate issued in the name of the depositor. The 
United States bank would pay a finder's fee of $130,000. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
The reason why these funds are being offered at less than 
the prevailing rate is unknown. While the Board has no knowledge that 
this type of offering is illegal or subjects the bank to unusual risks, 
there have been similar transactions in which some commercial banks 
have suffered significant losses. One transaction involved the issuance 
of a certificate of deposit against what turned out to be uncollectible 
funds. Before the bank could retrieve its certificate, the instrument 
had been pledged as collateral for a loan and was being held by a 
holder in due course. 
f"1* 
r' 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
jiwijj 
u 

304? 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 9 
1/28/71 
• F T H E 
Of COVf •. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRRESPaNOENCE 
TO 1 H E BOARD 
ftALtf&T' 
January 29, 1971 
Mr. Will Wilson 
Assistant Attorney General 
Criminal Division 
Department of Justice 
Washington, D. C. 
20530 
Dear Mr. Wilson: 
This refers to your letter of January 5, 1971, requesting 
information as to all transactions between member banks and Bank 
of Sark, Limited, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands; First 
Liberty Fund, Limited, Nassau, Bahamas; Transcontinental Casualty 
Insurance Company, Limited, Nassau, Bahamas. 
There is enclosed a copy of a letter written to the 
Reserve Banks forwarding your request. We will be pleased to 
furnish you with the information submitted by the Banks in response. 
Very truly yours 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
Enclosure 

— 
Item No. 10 
1/28/71 
3C5 
11; 
I 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
ts. 
BOARD OF-GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
January 28, 1971 
PRESIDENTS, ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Board has extended for six months to August 1, 1971, the 
authority granted in its letter of December 24, 1969, for 
direct lending under the third paragraph of Section 13 
of the Federal Reserve Act to nonmember depositary-type 
institutions, including nonmember commercial banks, 
and for indirect lending through member banks to such 
institutions. Procedures for accommodating nonmember 
commercial banks are specified in the Board's letter 
of March 17, 1970 (F.R.L.S. //1000.10). 
Kenyon f 
