MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 26, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 10 Amendments to Rules Regarding Delegation 
of Authority. 

3 0 1 S 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 26, 19 72. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
J7 Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

t_ 
* CA 
10/26/72 
-2-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of CBT Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut, to acquire shares of 
Lazere Financial Corporation, New York, New York, and authorized the 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mercantile 
Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to acquire shares of Bank 
of Somerset, Princess Anne, Maryland, and authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Affiliated 
Bank Corporation, Madison, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Bank of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, Wisconsin, and authorized the issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bank of the 
Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, to establish a branch in the village of 
Beverly Hills, Michigan, and to invest in bank premises. A copy of the 
letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 4. 

10/26/72 
-3-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
F & M Operating Company. On October 12, 1972, the Board considered 
the applications of F & M Operating Company, Abilene, Texas, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to First National Bank of Abilene and, 
as an incident thereto, to acquire indirectly additional shares of Bank 
of Commerce, also in Abilene, At that time the staff was requested to 
conduct further investigation into the holdings of Bank of Commerce shares 
by First National Bank of Abilene's Employee Profit-Sharing Trust. 
In a memorandum dated October 20, 1972, the Division of Supervi-
sion and Regulation reviewed the results of the additional inquiry and 
continued to recommend approval of the applications. 
Following discussion, it was agreed to defer action on these 
applications until the staff could provide additional information regarding 
the banking factors involved. 
American Bancorporation. In a memorandum dated October 18, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended denial of the application of American Bancorporation, Los 
Angeles, California, to become a bank holding company through the acquisi-
tion of shares of Ranchers Bank, Quartz Hill, California. 
The Board unanimously denied the application, with the under-
standing that an order and statement reflecting that decision would be 
prepared for consideration. 

3021 
10/26/72 
-4-
Farmers Enterprises. In a memorandum dated October 6, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended denial of the applications of Farmers Enterprises Inc., La 
Crosse, Kansas, (1) to become a bank holding company through the acquisi-
tion of shares of The Farmers State Bank, Albert, Kansas; and (2) for 
permission to retain Albert Insurance Agency, Albert, Kansas. In a 
memorandum dated October 25, 1972, Mr. Leavitt reported that the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City had changed its recommendation from approval 
to denial. 
The Board unanimously denied the applications and authorized the 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
United Jersey Banks. In a memorandum dated September 20, 19 72, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended approval of the application of United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, 
New Jersey, to acquire shares of Gibralter Corporation of America, New York, 
New York. Additional information regarding the holding company's debt 
position and capital improvement program was provided by Mr. Leavitt in 
a memorandum of October 18. 
After discussion the Board unanimously approved the application 
and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting at this point. 

1022 
10/26/72 
-5-
Bank of Idaho. In a memorandum dated September 28, 19 72, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended approval of the application of Bank of Idaho, Boise, Idaho, 
to merge Cassia National Bank, Burley, Idaho, and to operate the three 
existing offices and one approved but unopened branch of that institution 
as branches of the resulting bank. With a memorandum dated October 16, 
1972, the Legal Division submitted a proposed order reflecting the staff 
recommendation. 
The Board approved the application, Governor Robertson dissenting 
and Governor Bucher abstaining. It was understood that a revised order 
reflecting that decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, 
and that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 
First National City Corporation. In a memorandum dated October 13, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of First National City Corporation, New York, New York, 
to continue to hold indirectly shares of Inversiones Citycol, S.A., Bogota, 
Colombia, a bank premises company, after the latter engages in a variety 
of financial activities. 
Reference was made to recent discussions regarding the need to 
improve the capital position of First National City Bank of New York, 
wholly owned by First National City Corporation. A view was expressed that 
until a satisfactory capital improvement program had been developed, the 
Board should withhold action upon additional applications of the holding 

yv. r> 
J* 
10/26/72 
-6-
company that were considered significant. However, there was agreement 
with a suggestion that the Board approve the application with respect 
to Inversiones Citycol; that next week the Board would act on two other 
pending applications by the First National City organization involving 
transactions that were not considered to be of major significance; and 
that at that time the holding company would be informed that the Board 
would not act on additional applications until the company had indicated 
that it was prepared to take reasonable steps to increase First National 
City Bank's capital in an amount satisfactory to the Board. 
The application with respect to Inversiones Citycol was then 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that First National City 
Corporation would not be so informed until action had been taken upon 
the other applications that had been mentioned, and that a letter would 
be drafted to state the Board's position with respect to processing further 
applications. 
J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation. J. Henry Schroder Banking 
Corporation, New York, New York, an investment company chartered under 
New York banking law, had requested a Board ruling that it was not a bank 
for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act. The requested ruling was 
believed to be important to plans of the Schroder banking group to reorgani2 
their operations in accordance with the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding 
Company Act. At its meeting on June 21, 1972, the Board discussed the 
Schroder matter but deferred action. 

10/26/72 
-7-
On November 4, 1971, the Board had ruled that French American 
Banking Corporation, New York, New York, also an investment company, 
should not be regarded as a bank for purposes of the Bank Holding Company 
Act. 
Staff analyses distributed in preparation for today's discussion 
included memoranda from the Legal Division dated June 19 and September 18, 
1972; from the Division of Research and Statistics dated September 18, 
1972; from the Divisions of International Finance and Supervision and 
Regulation dated September 25, 1972; and from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated October 19, 1972. 
The foregoing documentation dealt principally with the question 
whether credit balances should be considered demand deposits, together 
with several possible implications of a Board ruling that J. Henry Schroder 
was a bank. The Legal Division and the Divisions of International Finance 
and Supervision and Regulation recommended that the Board rule that J. Henry 
Schroder was not a bank for purposes of the Act. Staff documentation also 
concluded that credit balances such as those held by J. Henry Schroder and 
other similar companies could be considered demand deposits. 
After discussion it was agreed that consideration of the Schroder 
question would be continued this afternoon. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
4:00 p.m. with the same Board members and generally the same staff in 
attendance. 

>o 
p—' 
>® * Aw ' > 
10/26/72 
-8-
J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation. Initial discussion 
focused on the nature of J. Henry Schroder's business activities and 
particularly its credit balances. During ensuing discussion support 
developed for the view that credit balances used in a manner similar to 
checking accounts should be considered to be demand deposits. Further, 
it was believed that credit balances held by J. Henry Schroder, as well 
as other similar investment firms, were utilized in a manner closely 
paralleling the use of checking accounts and therefore should be regarded 
as demand deposits. 
Concern was then expressed that a Board decision to regard certain 
credit balances as demand deposits, thereby causing the institutions 
holding those balances to be considered commercial banks under the law, 
might involve undesirable implications. It was pointed out that the 
overall implications of such a decision had not yet been fully investigated, 
but that an investigation should be undertaken before the Board arrived at 
a final decision. 
Comments were then directed toward branches and agencies of foreign 
banks and State-chartered foreign banking corporations, which were not 
subject to United States banking regulations or to the Board's jurisdiction 
under the Bank Holding Company Act. It was believed that should the Board 
reach a decision to rule that certain types of credit balances were demand 
deposits, it should also seriously consider proposing legislation to Con-
gress that would seek to deal with the problems posed by the U.S. branches 
and agencies of foreign banks. 

10/26/72 
-9-
In the event the Board ruled that J. Henry Schroder was a bank, 
it was pointed out that the November 1971 ruling with respect to French 
American Banking Corporation might need to be reversed. In this regard 
the suggestion was made that should the Board reach that conclusion, both 
French American and J. Henry Schroder could be granted a certain time 
limit in which to comply with the necessary requirements. 
An opinion was then expressed that the Board should arrive at a 
decision today on the question whether J. Henry Schroder was a bank. It 
was believed that the Board should move in a positive direction in this 
matter, but that if J. Henry Schroder was ruled to be a bank, the time 
limit for compliance with that decision could be kept flexible and decided 
upon following consultation with the companies affected by the decision. 
Concern was again expressed with respect to the uncertainty 
surrounding the overall implications that might result should the Board 
rule that J. Henry Schroder was a bank. It was believed that further 
investigation regarding these implications was warranted. 
It was then decided, Governor Brimmer dissenting, that the Board 
would defer action on the question of whether J. Henry Schroder was a 
bank until the staff had an opportunity to obtain information regarding 
the implications of such a decision, including the work-out problems that 
would be faced by J. Henry Schroder, and other similar firms, in adjusting 
to such a decision, as well as the time that might be required to make any 
necessary adjustments. 

f\ 
Vl 
M 
> 
10/26/72 
-10-
In order to obtain the necessary information, the staff was autho-
rized to (1) inform the officials of J. Henry Schroder that the Board had 
discussed this matter at length and that if a vote had been taken there 
would have been agreement, probably unanimously, that J. Henry Schroder 
was a bank; and (2) ask about the problems and time involved in making 
adjustments to such a decision. The staff was further instructed to 
inquire into the comparable activities of French American Banking Corpo-
ration. It was understood that the staff should refrain from discussing 
the Board's consideration of proposing legislation regarding U.S. agencies 
and branches of foreign banks. 
Holding company guidelines. On August 20, 1971, the Board estab-
lished guidelines for use by the Federal Reserve Banks in exercising 
authority delegated to them by the Board to approve applications for the 
formation of one-bank holding companies (the Board retained exclusive 
authority to deny such applications). Thereafter, the Board received 
comments to the effect that the guidelines were being applied in a manner 
more restrictive than desirable and that the guidelines were having an 
undue adverse effect upon the transferability of bank stock. In order to 
explore these questions, an oral presentation was held before available 
members of the Board on June 28, 1972. Upon consideration of material 
resulting from that proceeding, the Board decided to revise the guidelines. 
In a memorandum dated October 18, 1972, Mr. Leavitt presented 
Proposed revisions to the guidelines and recommended that the guidelines 

3023 
10/26/72 
-11-
be incorporated in the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority. 
A draft amendment in that form was attached. 
The Board unanimously approved the amendment, a copy of which 
is attached under Item No. 7. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Director appointments. The following actions were taken: 
0. Meredith Wilson was redesignated as Chairman and Federal 
Reserve Agent of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
for the year 1973, with compensation fixed at an amount equal 
to the fees that would be payable to any other director of the 
Bank for equivalent time and attendance to official business; 
Leland D. Pratt was reappointed as a director of the Los Angeles 
Branch for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1973; 
John R. Howard was reappointed as a director of the Portland 
Branch for the two-year term beginning January 1, 1973; and 
C. Henry Bacon, Jr., was reappointed as a director of the Seattle 
Branch for the two-year term beginning January 1, 1973. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the appropriate Federal Reserve 
Banks whether the following persons would accept appointment if tendered 
as Reserve Bank or branch directors for the terms indicated, with the 
understanding that if it were found that they would accept, the appoint-
ments would be made: 
George A. Roberts, President, Teledyne, Inc., Los Angeles, 
California, as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco for the three-year term beginning January 1, 
19 73, with the understanding that if Mr. Roberts accepted the 
appointment he would be appointed Deputy Chairman of the Bank 
for the year 1973; and with the further understanding that if 

10/26/72 
-12-
Mr. Roberts was not available, similar steps would be taken 
with respect to Joseph F. Alibrandi, President, Whitaker Cor-
poration, Los Angeles, California. 
(It having developed that 
Mr. Roberts would be unable to accept but that Mr. Alibrandi 
was available, a telegram was sent to Mr. Alibrandi on Novem-
ber 16, 1972, informing him of his appointment as Class C 
director and Deputy Chairman.) 
Edward G. Uhl, President and Chief Executive Officer, Fairchild 
Industries, Inc., Germantown, Maryland, as a director of the 
Baltimore Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond for the 
three-year term beginning January 1, 1973, with the understanding 
that if Mr. Uhl was not available, similar steps would be taken 
with respect to David W. Barton, Jr., President, Barton-Gillet 
Company, Baltimore, Maryland. 
(It having developed that Mr. Uhl 
would be unable to accept but that Mr. Barton was available, an 
appointment telegram was sent to Mr. Barton on December 1, 19 72.) 
Discount rates. At a meeting of the Board on October 16 and at 
a joint meeting of the Board and the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents on 
October 17, 1972, discussions were held concerning the communicating of 
information to the Reserve Bank Presidents regarding the reasons under-
lying Board decisions to disapprove proposed changes in the discount rate. 
dated October 24, 1972, outlined for the Board's consideration a proposed 
approach for communicating to the Reserve Bank Presidents the reasons 
underlying Board disapprovals of discount rate proposals. 
Subject to modifications that were agreed upon during discussion, 
the Board unanimously approved the proposed approach, with the under-
standing that letters outlining the new procedure would be sent to the 
Reserve Bank Presidents. A copy of the letter sent to the Boston Bank 
is attached as Item No. 8. 
In light of those discussions, Mr. Holland, in a memorandum 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3 0 3 0 
Item No. 1 
10/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CBT CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Lazere 
Financial Corporation 
CBT Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Boardf
s approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and S 225.4(b)(2) of the 
Board's Regulation Y, to acquire not less than 80 per cent of the voting 
shares of Lazere Financial Corporation ("Lazere"), New York, New York. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (37 Federal Register 17088), The time for filing 
comments and vieus has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant's banking subsidiary, The Connecticut Bank and Trust 
c°mpany ("Bank"), is the second largest bank in the State of Connecticut, 
holds deposits of $1,1 billion representing approximately 18 per 
1/ 
Cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State." 
Applicant 
has nonbanlcing subsidiaries engaged principally in data processing, 
tGal estate financing, equipment leasing, and acting as a stock transfer 
a8ent, 
Lazere is a commercial finance company with total assets of 
$9 o 
million, total credits outstanding of $7,3 million, and total 
CaPital accounts of $2,1 million. 
It operates its sole office in 
* 
Data regarding Bank are as of December 31, 1971, 
V 
JotGdData regarding Lazere are as of May 31, 1972, except as otherwise 

-2-
3031 
New York City and primarily serves the New York Metropolitan Area. It 
specializes in secured financing of accounts receivable, which in 
recent years has accounted for approximately 90 per cent of its total 
3/ 
credits outstanding. 
It also finances inventory and the importation 
°f goods, either by direct loans or confirmation of letters of credit 
issued by other financial institutions. Such activities are consistent 
with the kinds of activities determined by the Board to be closely re-
lated to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
Although Bank and Lazere compete for commercial loan business 
in Fairfield County, Connecticut, consummation of the proposed acquisi-
tion would not have any significant adverse effect on existing competi-
tion. Bank1s branches in Fairfield County have not engaged to any 
significant extent in financing accounts receivable. Only 2.3 per cent 
o f Lazere's total credits outstanding were derived from that County as 
June 30, 1972. An insignificant amount of competition is there-
fore affected. Nor does it appear that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would have any adverse effect on potential competition 
on credit availability to independent finance companies in any 
Levant area. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consum-
ption of the proposed transaction would result in any undue concen-
tration of resources, unfair competition, unsound banking practices, 
z.' 
The latest figures as of Hay 31, 1972, reflect that accounts 
^ceivable financing represents approximately 80 per cent of total 
Cre<Uts outstanding. 

3032 
-3-
or other adverse effects on the public interest. It is anticipated 
that Lazere's affiliation with Applicant will give Lazere access to 
the greater capital resources of Applicant, will enhance its ability 
to provide larger loans, and will thereby enable it to compete more 
effectively in the highly competitive markets which it serves. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This de-
termination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof, 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 26, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
At 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
^tchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher, Absent and not voting: 
"airman Burns. 

... '30* 
Item No. 2 
1Q/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MERCANTILE BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mercantile Banlcshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C, 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares 
°f Bank of Somerset, Princess Anne, Maryland ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
^ light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls five banks with aggregate deposits of approxi 
lately $304 million, and is the sixth largest banking organization in 
Maryland, with 5,1 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, unless otherwise indicated, 
and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
Board through September 30, 1972.) Acquisition of Bank ($18.9 mil-
lion in deposits) would increase Applicant's share of Statewide deposits 
by only 0.3 per cent and its ranking in the State would remain unchanged. 
Bank is the fourth largest of eleven banking organizations com-
b i n g in the Somerset-Wicomico banking market, holding about 12.1 per 
C6nt of market deposits (as of June 30, 1970). Applicant's office 

3034 
- 2 -
I 
located closest to Bank is about 90 miles northwest of Bank, in Church Hill. 
It appears that there is no significant existing competition between 
Bank and Applicant's Church Hill office or any of Applicants subsidiary 
banks« Moreover, it appears unlikely that such competition would develop 
in the future in the light of the facts of record, notably, the dis-
tances separating Bank from Applicantfs present subsidiary banks, the 
number of banks located in intervening areas, and the declining popula-
tion of Somerset County between 1960 and 1970. Affiliation with Ap-
plicant should enable Bank to compete more aggressively within its 
relevant market; thus, approval of this application should have a pro-
competitive effect on competition in the area. On the basis of the 
record before it, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competition in any 
relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as eatisfactory and 
consistent with approval of the application. Bank has experienced some 
management difficulties and affiliation with Applicant should enable 
Bank to draw upon Applicant's managerial resources to aid Bank in 
strengthening management and the condition of Bank. Additionally, 
Applicant has committed itself to increase Bank's capital by 
$500,000 upon acquisition of Bank. The banking factors lend weight 
for approval. It appears that the banking needs of the residents of 
Somerset and Wicomico Counties are being met; however, customers of 

3035 
-3-
Bank should benefit from the higher lending limits and additional 
services that Applicant will be able to provide. Considerations re-
lating to the convenience and needs of the community to be served 
w«igh in favor of approval of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest and 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(8) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-'' effective October 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
J 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
^tchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
"airman Burns. 

Item No. 
10/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AFFILIATED BANK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Affiliated Bank Corporation, Madison, Wisconsin, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(3) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of Bank of Cambridge, Cambridge, Wisconsin 
("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with 5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing com-
ments and views has expired, and the Board has considered the 
application and all comments received in light of the factors 
Qet forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits 
approximately $103 million.!/ Bank ($5.3 million in deposits) 
is the 24th largest of 30 banking organizations operating in the 
Madison Banking Market, approximated by the Madison Standard 
Metropolitan Statistical Area (Dane County), and holds 0.8 per 
Cent of total deposits held by commercial banks operating in 
^at market. Applicant's three subsidiary banks also operate 
the Madison Banking Market, and Applicant thereby controls 
6 per cent of total deposits held by banks operating in 
that market, thereby ranking as the second largest banking 
°r8anization in that market. 

Since the closest banking subsidiary of Applicant 
to Bank is located approximately 25 miles west of Bank and several 
banks intervene, it appears that there is no significant existing 
competition between Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank. 
There is little probability that Applicant would enter Bank's 
service area de novo because of the small population growth and 
the low per capita income of the area, and consummation of the 
Proposal would foreclose no substantial potential competition. 
The Board concludes that competitive considerations are consistent 
v?ith approval of the application. 
Considerations related to the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary 
banks are regarded as generally satisfactory and consistent with 
approval. Although Bank's financial resources and future prospects 
a r e satisfactory, it appears that adequate provision has not been 
^ade for succession to Bank's currently satisfactory management, 
applicant would serve as a source of successor management as well 
a s of additional capital funds should Bank's continued deposit 
growth require the infusion of further capital. The banking con-
aerations therefore lend weight toward approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
some weight for approval, since Applicant proposes to provide, 
thr 
rough Bank, trust services not now readily available in the area, 
a 
j 
to enable Bank to offer leasing, credit card, computer, and 
^er services. Although these services are presently available 

3038 
-3-
ln the community, consummation of the proposed transaction 
would create another alternative source of such services. 
On the basis of the record, the application is 
approved for the reasons summarized above. The transaction 
shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the effective date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the effective date of this Order, un-
less such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective October 25, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
2/ Voting for this action; vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
'^tchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheelmn, and Bucher. Absent and not 
v°ting. chairman Burns. 

.•^si^v-. 
flip 
Item No. 4 
B D A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
10/26/72 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D F ! E & ? 5 
O F F t C I A I 
C O B H E S P O N O E N C C 
, O X , 
'
w 
. 
T O 
T H E 
3 D A P D 
yu. k^SV-. 
October 26, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Bank of the Commonwealth 
Detroit, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has approved, pursuant to Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act, 
an investment in bank premises of $230,000 by Bank of the 
Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, for miscellaneous maintenance-
type projects at its main office and various branches. 
The Board also has approved the establishment of a branch 
by Bank of the. Cormnor-wealth, Detroit, Michigan, in the vicinity of 
the intersection of 13 Mile Road and Greenfield Road, Village of 
Baverly Hills, Michigan, provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter. Incident to establishment 
of. the branch, the Board has approved an investment in bank premise: 
of $230,000. 
Very truly yours. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

3040 
Item No. 5 
10/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FARMERS ENTERPRISES, INC. 
Order Denying Formation of Bank Holding 
Company and Retention of Insurance Agency 
Farmers Enterprises, Inc., La Crosse, Kansas, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 
U-S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 81 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Farmers 
State Bank, Albert, Kansas ("Bank"). 
At the same time Applicant has applied for the Board's approval 
Under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y 
to engage in insurance agency activities through the retention of the 
durance agency activities formerly conducted by the Albert Insurance 
A8ency, Albert, Kansas ("Agency"). Agency would engage in the activities 
0f a general insurance agency in a community of less than 300 people. The 
B°ard has previously determined such activity to be permissible for bank 
hol<Ung companies (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)). 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in accordance 
W l t h §§ 3 and 4 of the Act (37 Federal Register 12751), and the time for 
fiXiti& comments and views has expired. The Board has considered the appli-
Cations and all comments received in the light of the facts set forth in 
§ 3<c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified 
in 5 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and finds that: 

3041 
-2-
Applicant was formed for the purpose of acquiring Bank and 
Agency, and has operated Agency since October 1971. Bank, with deposits 
of approximately $4.5 million, controls 4.5 per cent of deposits in 
commercial banks in the Barton County area, and is the eighth largest 
of nine banks in that area."^ The proposed president and a proposed 
director of Bank are executive officers of Home State Bank, La Crosse, 
Kansas; Bank and Home State Bank, however, are separated by more than 
20 miles and neither bank appears to derive significant business from 
the other's banking area. Accordingly, the Board concludes that no 
significant existing or potential competition would be eliminated upon 
consummation of this proposal. 
During July and August 1971, Applicant's organizer and sole 
shareholder acquired 2,430 of 3,000 shares of Bank with the intention 
of transferring such shares to Applicant. A majority interest in Bank 
was acquired from officers and directors of Bank for $250 per share. 
A second group of shareholders received $200 per share and a third 
group $135 per share. In its consideration of the public interest 
a s
Pects of this application the Board finds, as it previously has in 
Similar cases, that the failure to make an equivalent offer to all 
shareholders of Bank is an adverse circumstance weighing against appro-
x i of the application (e.g., 1971 Federal Reserve Bulletin 415 and 688). 
The Board is also concerned with another aspect of Applicant's 
^oposal. In applications to form one-bank holding companies the Board 
i ^ A i l banking data are as of December 31, 1971. 

has considered significant debt in acquiring a bank as an adverse cir-
cumstance (e.g., 1971 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1003). Significant acqui-
sition debt may adversely affect the prospects of an applicant's ability 
to meet any emergency capital needs of its subsidiary bank. The amount 
and maturity of the debt, therefore, must be considered in relation to 
the ability of the holding company to service the debt, and the likeli-
hood that Bank will need capital. The debt factor is then balanced with 
other considerations in determining whether the acquisition would be in 
fche public interest. 
Applicant proposes to assume debt of $325,250 which would result 
in a debt-to-equity ratio of 2,288 per cent. Taking into account the actual 
growth of assets and deposits of Bank since 1967, and the range of per-
Centage of net income to total assets for all Kansas member banks in a 
comparable deposit size group, it appears that, even under a reasonable 
Projection of Bank's earnings, amortization of the debt will require 
Applicant's total projected income from Bank and Agency for a period of 
aPproximately 18 years. During this period the projected growth of Bank 
could require additional capital that Applicant would not likely be able 
to provide. Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources of Applicant therefore weigh against approval. These considera-
tions, it should be clear, in no way reflect adversely on the financial 
Soundness of Bank at the present time. On the contrary, the financial and 
Managerial resources of Bank are sound and its prospects for the future 
favorable. 

3043 
-2-
Under all of the circumstances in this case, the Board concludes 
that the unequal treatment of shareholders of Bank and the acquisition 
debt involved in this proposal present adverse circumstances bearing on 
the financial condition and prospects of Applicant and Bank which weigh 
against approval of the application. Such circumstances are not outweighed 
by any procompetitive factors or by the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. On the basis of the record, the Board finds 
that approval of the § 3 application would not be in the public interest 
2/ 
and it is accordingly denied. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,'" effective October 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
V 
Denial of Applicant's § 3(a)(1) application requires denial of the 
attendant § 4(c)(8) proposal. 
i/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

Item No. 
10/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED JERSEY BANKS 
Order Approving Acquisition of Gibraltar Corporation of America 
United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, as amended, has applied for the Board's approval under 
section 4(c)(8) of the Act and section 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Regulation Y to acquire 100 per cent of the voting and nonvoting 
shares of Gibraltar Corporation of America, New York, New York 
("Gibraltar"). Notice of the application affording opportunity 
for interested persons to submit comments and views was duly 
Published (37 Federal Register 15534). The time for filing com-
ments and views has expired and none have been received. 
Making secured loans to businesses for various business 
Purposes, such as accounts receivable financing, equipment financing, 
and dealer sales and lease financing, is an activity that the Board 
has previously determined to be closely related to banking or 
Managing or controlling banks (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). A bank hold-
ing company may acquire a company engaged in this activity so 
long as the proposed acquisition is consistent with the factors 
specified in section 4(c)(0) of the Act. Gibraltar with total 
assets of approximately $22 million is a commercial finance com-
Pany whose major activity ie nonnotification accounts receivable 
financing. Gibraltar also engages to a lesser extent in the other 

-2-
3045 
types of commercial financing described above as being "closely 
related to banking". These types of commercial financing are 
specialized, serving high risk customers who generally cannot 
obtain adequate bank financing to meet their credit needs. 
In fact, it is understood that generally initial customer con-
tacts of a commercial finance company derive from referrals by 
commercial banks, the particular customer either having exhausted, 
or been unable to qualify for, a line of credit from the referring 
bank. 
Applicant is the second largest banking organization in 
New Jersey, controlling 15 banks with aggregate deposits of 
approximately $1.2 billion. (All banking data are as of December 31, 
1971, and reflect holding company formation and acquisitions as of 
August 31, 1972.) Gibraltar, through its sole office, operates 
in the New York area market, and competes with over 50 suppliers 
of accounts receivable financing, including commercial banks 
located in the New York metropolitan area, certain factoring 
firms, and commercial finance companies. Of all of Applicant's 
subsidiary banks, only its lead bank, Peoples Trust of New Jersey, 
Hackensack, New Jersey ("Bank"), holds a significant amount of 
loans outstanding secured by accounts receivable (12 loans valued 
at $1.7 million). Although Bank is located in the New York area 
Market, none of its loans secured by accounts receivable are to 

3046 
-2-
borrowers located in Gibraltar's service area (New York City, 
Nassau County, and part of Suffolk County). Conversely, only 
five of Gibraltar's accounts receivable loans derive from Appli-
cant's service area. The Board concludes that consummation of 
the proposed transaction would not have a significant adverse 
effect on existing competition. 
Nor does it appear that consummation would have any 
significant adverse effect on the development of competition. 
The proposal in effect represents a foothold entry by Applicant 
into the New York area accounts receivable market. Although 
data on that market is not available in complete form, the Board 
understands that the nation's largest companies engaged in bus*"*ss 
receivables financing have offices in New York City and that the 
total net business receivables outstanding (all types) of the two 
largest such companies amounted to $780.9 million and $608.0 
million, respectively, as of December 31, 1971. As of the same 
date, the third and fourth largest reported what appear to be 
net outstanding amounts of factored and nonnotification receivables 
of $479.6 million and $372.2 million, respectively. These figures 
compare to Gibraltar's net business receivables outstanding (all 
types) of $16.5 million as of December 31, 1971. The Board con-
cludes that Applicant would not acquire a substantial competitive 
Position upon consummation of the proposal, nor would consummation 

3047 
- 2 -
result in an undue concentration of economic resources. Furthermore, 
although Applicant possesses the resources to enter the New York area 
market de novo, the market is characterized by a considerable number 
of competitors and by relatively low entry barriers. 
Although Bank extends credit to competitors of Gibraltar, 
in view of the availability of credit from other sources, it is unlikely 
that Bank would have an incentive to terminate its lending relationship 
with those of its borrowers who compete with Gibraltar. 
Applicant predicts that consummation of the proposed transaction 
will have the ultimate effect of strengthening the capital resources of 
Gibraltar, thereby strengthening Gibraltar's ability to compete in the 
New York area market and enabling Gibraltar to extend its operations 
into new geographic markets, particularly those presently served by 
Applicant's subsidiary banks. Presently New Jersey firms generally 
are forced to fragment their demands for financial services, turning 
to New York or Philadelphia for the kinds of financial services that 
Gibraltar would provide. To the extent that such services can be con-
veniently provided in New Jersey (and elsewhere), the public benefits 
the proposed affiliation outweigh possible adverse effects. As the 
Board has indicated in its Order of August 22, 1972, approving Appli-
cant's application to acquire all of the voting shares of The Dover 
Company, Dover, New Jersey, the Board understands that Appli-
cant will increase the equity capital of The Dover Trust Company by 
ik

3048 
-2-
$1 million and the equity capital of Bank by $15 million. It appears 
that Applicant will be able to generate sufficient income to service 
debt it may incur to so augment the capital accounts of its subsidiary 
banks and that its future ability to furnish the increased capital to 
Gibraltar, necessary to enable Gibraltar to geographically expand its 
activities, will not be significantly lessened thereby. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the 
Public interest factors the Board is required to consider under 
8ection 4(c)(8) favors approval of the application. Accordingly, 
th 
e application is hereby approved and Applicant is hereby per-
mitted to engage in the activities now conducted by Gibraltar that 
Q r e authorized by 12 CFR 225.4(a)(1). This determination is subject 
to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and 
to the Board's authority to require such modification or termination 
f the activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries 
as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions 
and n 
Purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued 
<"^efeunder or to prevent evasion thereof. i / 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective October 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
lsEAL) 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Mi t7 c l ng for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
voti 
' Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not 
Chairman Burns. 

Item No. 7, 
10/26/72 
immediate release 
Oetobefc 30, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today announced a revised procedure designed to expedite the 
handling of applications to form one-bank holding companies. 
The Board issued revised gu5.delines for the use of 
the Federal Reserve Banks under delegated authority in pre-
s s i n g applications to form holding companies controlling 
tina bank, Applications which meet the standards set forth 
^ the guidelines may be approved by the Reserve Banks. 
Applications that do not meet the guideline standards must 
forwarded to the Board for action. The Board retains 
Elusive authority tc deny applications of this type, 
Effective September 1, 1971, the Board delegated 
to the Reserve Banks certain authority to approve formations 
°ne-bank holding companies and issued guidelines for the * 
^eerva Banks to follow in processing applications of this 
v'pe., i'he revised guidelines now issued take the place of 
^ 
previous guidelines. The Board held an oral presentation 
iri this fitter cn June 20, 1971, 
After considering all material submitted., the Board 
^thorized the attached new guidelines for the use of Reserve 
in approving cite formation of one-bank holding companies. 

TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265--RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Bank Acquisitions by Holding Companies 
Py order dated August 19, 1971, the Board delegated to 
the Reserve Banks authority to approve applications for the forma-
j 
L-on of one-bank holding companies, retaining exclusive authority 
t o deny such applications. On August 20, 1971., by letter to the 
^feserve Banks, the Board established certain guidelines for the 
of those Banks in exercising the authority delegated to them 
-he 
Order of August 19 s 1971. 
Thereafter, the Board received comments from various 
P^tsofts to the effect that the guidelines were being applied in 
a r^e.nnev more restrictive than desirable and that the guidelines 
^ere having an undue adverse effect upon the transferability of 
stock. In order to explore these questions, the Board, by 
of May 26, 1972, ordered that an Oral Presentation before 
uVailabi« members of the Eoard be held on June 28, 1972. Upon 
Co^8).dera{;ion of material presented orally at that proceeding 
1111(1 through written submissions, the Board has decided to revise 
Vl'- guidelines and to incorporate them into the Board's Rules 
cling Delegation of Authority. 

In adopting these guidelines, the Board emphasized 
that they are intended to expedite one-bank holding company 
! 
formations by establishing general standards as set forth 
therein that will be used by a Reserve Bank under delegated 
authority t;o approve ouch applications. Applications not 
f-ing such standards will be forwarded to the Board for 
fl'Tther consideration* The Board noted that the. standards 
adopted are to be subject to continuing analysis and review, 
Amendments may be made if experience indicates that such changes 
are nccctecry or appropriate. 
To accomplish thin delegation, section 265,2(f)(22) 
cf the Hoard1 a Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority is 
tended to read as follows: 
S 2 6 5• 2 
to Board employees and 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
if 
V-r 
* 
& 
(f) Each Federal Reserve Bank is authorised, as to 
Camber banks or other indicated organizations headquartered 
l n "its district: 
Vr 
* 
* 
* 
(22) Under the provisions of section 3(a)(1) of the 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C* 1842), to approve Che 
acqulsition by a ccnpauy of s controlling interest', in the 
v°ting Cherec of one bank, ii all of the following conditions 
(j) r,o object loci to the proposed acquisition has 
uarlft by the bank's Fuptvv-/.i>cry authoriny, 

3* >52 
-2-
.(ii) no significant policy issue is raised by the 
<s 
as to which the Board has not expressed ics views, 
(iii) neither the. holding company nor any of its 
^sidiaries or affiliates is engaged in any activities other 
^an those specifically permissible for bank holding companies 
by either the Act or Part 2.25 of this chapter (Regulation Y), 
(iv) any offer to acquire shares of the bank will 
°>'tcnded to all shareholders of the same class on a sub-
tally equal basis,V 
(v) in the event any debt is incurred by the holding 
^Pany to purchase shares of the bank: (a) the amount of the 
1 uoQn not exceed 75 per cent of the purchase price of the 
proposed subsidiary bank; (b) an agreed plan for 
toaov t- 4 „ . 
. , 
of the debt within a reasonable time exists, such 
normally not exceeding 12 years; (c) the interest 
- ort ttn? loan to purchase the bank shares will be comparable 
1 other stock collateral loans by the lender to persons of 
^'••'Y.bju credit standing; (d) no compensating balances, 
'ffcC* C 
Attributable, to the loan, will be deposited in 
e Ending institution and the amount of any correspondent 
a l 1 o f ,;hC{ outstanding abarea of the bank may be acquired 
"hera a grsmor nucber of afcaros a m taodcrcd than 
^ l * ? * * 1 t c b e Purchas-cl» the offeror will purchase the shares 
irir, 
o n a 
Ji* 
basis (except for fractional interests) accord-
tlv; number of aha.zcs tenderec by each shareholder. Where 
*s ftot identical to all shareholders, the burden is on 
,;o demonstrate the substantial emif.ve lanes of the 
CG extencied. 

Account which the proposed subsidiary bank will maintain with 
^ e lending institution should not exceed the amount necessary 
to compensate the lending bank for correspondent services 
rendered by it to the proposed subsidiary bank; (e) the Reserve 
Bank determines that the managerial and financial resources 
-'•ncluding the equity capital accounts^/of the proposed sub-
sidiary bank are adequate, or will be adequate within a reason-
able period of time after the bank is acquired, and any debt 
Service requirements to which the proposed holding company may 
ke subject arc such as to enable it to maintain the capital 
^cquacy ox the proposed subsidiary bank in the foreseeable 
W-ure 
* 
•ft 
Effective date: This amendment is effective with 
Aspect to applications received by the Reserve Banks after 
date of this Order. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 30, 1972. 
(Signed) 'Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
^KAL] 
y The"tcxnP'"equity^cep'ita 1 accounts'3 means capital stock, surplus, 
divided profits, and reserves for contingencies,and other capital reserves, 
kf Thi.; dolpgat^oti includes authority to approve {*) a merger transaction 
^tffcr the proviriiona of section 18(c) or the Faderal Deposit Insurance Act 
U.3.C. 1S2e,(c.)) and (b) an application* under section 9 of the federal 
serve* Act <12 ll'.S.C. 32 i), for member shin in the Federal Reserve System 
are incidental to an application '.;o become a one-bank holding company. 

I iii/^l; 
B O A R D CJF G D V L ' R N D R S 
O F THL" 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 8 
10/26/72 
WJSHINGTCI-,', 
D. 
C 
2O:M 
A D D R E S S 
U K r i C I A L 
C D K H t t i P D N D K N l 
T n 
T H E 
E O A I ^ D 
October 27, 19 72 
i
r
ir' Frank E. Morris, President 
Inderal Reserve Bank of Boston 
L°ston, Massachusetts 02106 
D 
Mr. Morrir : 
B0. 
, 3r U g l U : ° f t h e ^scussion at. the Joint Meeting of the 
J W d and the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents on October 17 t e 
has instructed the staff to broaden the communication o the 
£ ;ons ior any Board decision to disapprove a proposed chanpc i 
i ^ T
r
r
- 
T h C n e W P r O C G ( a" r e W i l 1 b e to mail to all the 
r ul -nts for tneir own confidential information, the substantia 
H ; u o n of the letter which is sent by the Board's Secretary to the 
ViP.: 
"ar,k vmosc discount rate action has been disapproved. In 
u 4 V 
tlK; 
natt»re of such information, the' rerMr.«Mt " 
chtn ! r°Ulc' lKH 
e S e n l ° V e r ° p e n F c i 5 c r a l 
wire;, but p L i ~ 
boarJ T I T 
? ° V 
l:Lght t l m c s c h c i d u l c 
of approaching 
" -
s 1 
H 
niP'e,: n 8f r U l d b° l n f ° r m e d 
' b>' telephone. 
B o a r X 
W h i c h C]° n 0 t c o n t a i n information about the 
s reasons, would continue to be sent on a prompt basis. 
•agreorf n 
^ 
r e v l e W ° f t h i s communications problem, the Board 
O e J ^ 
" ° t h e r ^roaches m i8 h t» 
occasion, be utilized if they 
est Qf ° 
VIarranteC,;°y p a r t i c u l a i circumstances, but in the in or-
rapif, f o ™^ d i n g a n officially approved statement on a relativeJy 
^ 
IcT, 
' <V T 
f e U 
t h a t 
rcalll»8 
of substantive excerpts 
C 
' I 8 
" Hi, 
B a t W W 0 U l d n° r n , a l l y 
to be the most 
J LJ(- and expeditious approach. 
tion. 
M d y 1 * d d t h n i L h e B o a r d w l U appreciate having your reac-
as experience is gained with this new procedure. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
