MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 9, 1969 

Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Thursday, October 9, 1969. 
The meeting was held in the Board Room at 9:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Walker Bank & Trust Company. As reported in a memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated October 8, 1969, The First 
National Bank of Coalville, Coalville, Utah, with deposits of about $5 
million, had been declared insolvent by the Comptroller of the Currency on 
°ctober 3, 1969. The principal problem appeared to have been a high 
volume of low-quality loans to out-of-area borrowers. Yesterday the Federal 
DePosit Insurance Corporation had advised the Division that Walker Bank & 
Trust Company, Salt Lake City, Utah, a subsidiary of Western Bancorporation, 
Angeles, California, had agreed to acquire assets and assume deposit 
liabilities of the Coalville bank. It was hoped that approval could be 
Holland, Secretary 
Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Hexter, General Counsel 
Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Egertson, Assistant Director, 
Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
John Flannery of the staff of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 

3092 
10/9/69 
-2-
obtained promptly so that banking services, through a branch of Walker 
could again be provided in the community. 
At the invitation of the Board, Mr. Flannery reviewed developments 
that apparently had been primarily responsible for the Coalville bank's 
predicament, the bids that had been received to acquire assets of the bank 
and assume its deposit liabilities, and reasons why, in the judgment of 
the Corporation, the Walker bid was deserving of acceptance. He then 
responded to a series of questions on various aspects of the matter, 
including the competitive situation. He indicated that for technical reasons 
°f a legal nature it would be necessary to delay somewhat the opening of the 
Coalville bank as a branch of Walker. However, it was hoped that the 
branch could be opened for business early next week. 
Board members expressed the view that in the circumstances it would 
he appropriate to proceed under the emergency provisions of the Bank Merger 
A ct, thereby dispensing with the usual requirements for published notice of 
the proposed acquisition of assets and for requests for reports on competitive 
factors. 
Drafts of an order and statement prepared by the Legal Division 
were reviewed and certain suggestions for minor changes in language were 
agreed upon. 
It being noted that only three members of the Board were present, 
fche remainder of the discussion dealt principally with how best to proceed 
that situation. After several possibilities had been explored, general 

3093 
10/9/69 
-3-
I ••' . e> 
agreement was expressed with the following procedure: the proposal by 
Walker Bank & Trust Company to acquire assets and assume deposit liabilities 
of The First National Bank of Coalville would be approved today, along with 
the incidental branch application, subject to ratification when a quorum 
of the Board was available; the order and statement reflecting such approval 
would be issued on Monday, October 13; in the meantime the Secretary would 
get in touch with at least one additonal member of the Board by telephone 
and review the matter; and the order would be issued in a form in which 
the specific votes would not be identified. 
Mr. Flannery indicated that a delay until Monday in the formal 
issuance of the order and statement would involve no problem from the 
Corporation's standpoint. 
Accordingly, subject to the foregoing procedural understandings, 
the merger application and the incidental branch application were approved 
unanimously. 
Copies of the order and statement, as issued on Monday, October 13, 
pursuant to the authorization that had been given, are attached under Item 
No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Policy record entry. Later in the day the available members of 
the Board (Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell and Sherrill) 
approved for release on Monday, October 13, the policy record entry for 

10/9/69 
-4-
the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on July 15, 1969, 
in the 
form distributed to the members of the Board with Mr. Broida's 
memorandum of October 8, 1969, The entry had been approved by the Board 
on September 16 and no further suggestions had been received. 

30 
Item No. 1 
10/9/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Hatter of the Application of 
WALKER BANK & TRUST COMPANY 
' 
for approval of acquisition of assets of' 
The First National Bank of Coalville 
J 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK'S ASSETS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to the Bank Merger Act, as amended 12 U.S.C. 1828(c), an application 
• • ! 
by Walker Bank & Trust Company, Salt Lake City, Utah, a State 
member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior 
approval of that bank's acquisition of assets and assumption of 
deposit liabilities of The First National Bank of Coalville, 
Coalville, Utah (uhich is under the receivership of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation); and, as an incident thereto, 
Walker Bank & Trust Company has applied, under section 9 of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 321), for the Board's prior 
approval of the establishment by that bank of a branch at the sole 
location of The First National Bank of Coalville. 

3 9 S G 
-2-
Published notice of the proposed acquisition of assets 
and assumption of deposit liabilities and requests for reports on 
the competitive factors involved therein have been dispensed v;ith 
as authorized by said Bank Merger Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
of the provision of said Act, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's accompanying Statement, that said applications be and here-
by are approved and that said acquisition of assets and assumption 
of deposit liabilities and establishment of the branch may be 
consummated immediately, but not later than three months after the 
date of this Order unless such period is extended for good cause 
by the Board or the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 9th day of October 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
/signed/ Robert P. Forrestal, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3 9 9 7 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY WALKER BANK & TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF COALVILLE 
STATEMENT 
Walker Banlc & Trust Company, Salt Lake City, Utah 
("Walker"), with total deposits of approximately $279.5 million, 
has applied pursuant to the Bank Merger Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 
1820(c)), for the Board's approval of acquisition of assets and 
assumption of deposit liabilities of The First National Bank of 
Coalville, Coalville, Utah ("First"). First, which is under the 
receivership of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has total 
deposits of about $5.2 million,!/ As an incident to the transaction, 
the sole office of First, which is about 30 miles from Walker's 
nearest office, would become a branch of Walker, increasing the 
number of its offices to 16. Walker is a subsidiary of Western 
Bancorporation, Los Angeles, California, a registered bank holding 
company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended 
(12 U.S.C. 1041 et seq). 
First, Coalville's only banking office, has been 
closed for insolvency by the Comptroller of the Currency, The 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is receiver for the 
bank, as noted above. The application was made to remedy 
Deposit figures are as of December 31, 1969, 

3098 
- 2 -
the attendant emergency situation found by the Board, on the 
basis of the information before it, including communications from 
the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, to require that the Board act immediately pursuant 
to the provisions of the Bank Merger Act in order to safeguard 
depositors of First. 
Such anticompetitive effects as may be attributable to 
consummation of the transaction uould be clearly outv/eighed in 
the public interest by the considerations supporting and requiring 
the aforementioned finding. From the record in the case, it is 
the Board's judgment that any disposition of the application other 
than permitted by the Board's Order uould have been inconsistent 
with the best interest of the depositors of First. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the proposed 
transaction should be approved on a basis that uould not delay 
consummation of the proposal. 
October 13, 1969. 
