609 
Minutes for February 3, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary-
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutess it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office.,, Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

403 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, February 3, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Pounds tone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on January 30 and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on February 2, 1967, of 
the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 

404 
2/3/67 
-10-
Approved letters. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item numbers indicated, were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background material that had been 
made available to the Board: 
Item No. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International Finance 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, approving an 
amendment to its articles of association. 
Letter to First Chicago International Banking 
2 
Corporation, New York, New York, approving an 
amendment to its articles of association. 
Letter to First Chicago International Finance 
3 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, approving an 
amendment to its articles of association. 
Letter to The First National Bank of Chicago, 
4 
Chicago, Illinois, granting consent to the 
purchase of stock of N.V. Slavenburg's Bank, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
Messrs. Shay, Sammons, Dahl, Forrestal, and Pounds tone then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Regulation Q matter (Item No. 5). There had been distributed a 
draft of letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, prepared by Mr. 
Hooff under date of February 2, 1967, responding to an inquiry concern-
ing the Board's current thinking with respect to automatic withdrawal 
of funds from a savings account in a member bank in order to make pay-
ments for various purposes. 
This question had been raised by a member bank that was consid-
ering offering its customers the option of having the bank make automatic 

405 
2/3/67 
-10-
withdrawal of funds from their savings accounts to cover payments on 
debts such as unsecured real estate improvement loans. Since 1939 the 
Board had permitted such transfers to be made for regular payments of 
principal, interest, or other charges on real estate loans or mortgages. 
In 1962, in connection with a study of Regulation Q (Payment of Interest 
on Deposits), consideration was given to permitting withdrawal of funds 
for other purposes as well. However, it was decided not to do so, in 
part because of opposition from banks that did not want to get involved 
with requests for payment of life insurance premiums, department store 
accounts, utility bills, and so forth. This background was referred to 
in the draft letter, which was factual in nature. 
Governor Mitchell said he thought the Board should re-examine 
any of its policies that were hostile to efforts on the part of the 
banking system to provide better service for customers. He would not 
like to send a letter such as the draft that had been distributed. 
Instead, he felt that the Board should review the basic premise under-
lying the use of Regulation Q to prevent banks from rendering more 
effective and cheaper service. Developments were moving in the direc-
tion of a type of contractual relationship between banks and their 
customers that would permit the banks to move funds from one type of 
account to another. For example, when a demand balance became large, 
the bank could make automatic transfers into time accounts. Such 
devices provided improved banking service, and Regulation Q should not 
stand in the way. 

406 
2/3/67 
-10-
Mr. Sherman commented that that was the reason the proposed 
letter had been brought to the Board's attention. The letter contained 
a factual statement of the position adopted most recently by the Board. 
However, the member bank had asked for the Board's current thinking, 
and the Board might want to reconsider its position. 
Governor Daane said he had sympathy for Governor Mitchell's 
general philosophy, which contemplated permitting as much competition 
as possible throughout the banking system. If that approach was carried 
to its logical conclusion, however, it would appear to involve, in 
effect, payment of interest on demand deposits. A line had to be drawn 
somewhere. 
Mr. Hexter suggested that the Board might want to consider 
recommending that the prohibition against payment of interest on demand 
deposits be repealed, but Governor Daane said he would not like to see 
the Board go that far. Perhaps, however, the Board could go a little 
further than it had previously. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the Board had been 
holding back too much. He was not arguing that the Board should go all 
the way. Rather, he was suggesting that the relationship between time 
and demand accounts should be more flexible. That was not antithetical 
to the public interest; it was good for bank customers. If a bank 
wanted to make such service available, the Board should permit it. 
Mr. Farrell commented that a customer could achieve any of the 
objectives in question by coming into the bank. The Board's position 

407 
2/3/67 
-10-
amounted simply to saying that the customer could not have a standing 
agreement with the bank to provide such service. 
Governor Daane suggested that unless there was some impediment 
the distinction between demand and time deposits could hardly be main-
tained . 
Governor Brimmer commented that the member bank had raised a 
straightforward question and that he felt the Board's discussion had 
jumped too rapidly to the more general questions raised by the idea of 
a checkless society. The member bank wanted to know whether it could 
move a little farther than permitted thus far; specifically, whether 
it could make withdrawals from savings accounts pursuant to the depos-
itor's written instructions in order to take care of payments on real 
estate improvement loans or self-insured home improvement loans. In 
this intermediate area Governor Brimmer felt that the Board might well 
liberalize its previous position; that would fall far short of permit-
ting the payment of interest on demand deposits. He was convinced that 
the Board should liberalize the position adopted in 1962, because that 
would run toward increasing competition through exerting pressure on 
banks that did not want to provide customer service. He did not feel 
that the Board had to get into the question of payment of interest on 
demand deposits at this stage. 
Governor Daane again inquired where the line could appropriately 
be drawn, adding that he would not object to providing somewhat greater 
flexibility. 

408 
2/3/67 
-10-
Mr. Hooff recalled that when consideration was given to permit-
ting withdrawals for various purposes in 1962 the Board decided not to 
extend the authority that permitted withdrawals in order to make pay-
ments on a real estate loan or mortgage. The Board might want to 
reconsider the matter and again seek the views of the Federal Reserve 
Banks, whose opinions were divided in 1962. 
Governor Daane said that he would not want to act on an ad hoc 
basis. He would prefer to look at the broad question and determine how 
far the Board wanted to go. 
Governor Mitchell expressed willingness to do either as Governor 
Brimmer had suggested or to go further and re-examine the broader issue. 
His view was simply that the Board's previous position was incompatible 
with developments over recent years. 
Governor Brimmer said he was not willing to turn to the Federal 
Reserve Banks and ask what should be done. He would ask the Board's 
staff to take another look at the problem and recommend how far it felt 
the Board could appropriately move in the direction of liberalization. 
Then, after the Board had reviewed the staff recommendations, the ques-
tion could be put to the Reserve Banks on the basis of the Board's 
tentative conclusions. 
Governor Shepardson observed that he had been unhappy with 
Regulation Q from the time of his first experience with the problem of 
defining what services were appropriate. However, the Regulation was 

409 
2/3/67 
-10-
predicated on two statutory requirements: first, that banks shall not 
pay interest directly or indirectly on demand deposits; second, that 
there shall be different reserve requirements according to classes of 
deposits. The Board must proceed on the assumption that there was some 
basic purpose to be served by those statutory provisions, as long as 
they were in effect, and try to provide meaningful definitions. If the 
Board concluded that the statutory provisions were not justified, it 
could go to the point of recommending that they be repealed. 
Governor Robertson said he was not sure in his own mind that 
the prohibition against payment of interest on demand deposits was 
justifiable, but that prohibition was in the law. Turning to the pro-
posed letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, he suggested the 
deletion of one sentence and the addition at the end of the letter of 
a sentence indicating that the Board was always prepared to consider 
proposals to amend Regulation Q so as to enable banks to render better 
service to the public. As to a broad study of the type that had been 
mentioned as a possibility, he suggested that the Board not undertake 
more studies than it could handle, and there were a number of projects 
in process at the present time. Accordingly, he would let questions 
of the type presented by the member bank build up until there were 
enough suggestions on hand to form a basis on which the Board could 
decide whether it wanted to take some action. The Board should not 
change its position on a day-to-day basis. Accordingly, he would avoid 
dealing with broad questions in responding to a letter such as had been 
received. 

410 
2/3/67 
-10-
Governor Brimmer noted that the member bank had asked one 
specific question and then a more speculative question. The specific 
question was whether the bank could make withdrawals from savings 
accounts to cover payments on real estate and home improvement loans. 
That would be quite similar to the practice, presently permitted, of 
making withdrawals in order to cover payments on real estate loans or 
mortgages. 
Governor Robertson replied that he doubted whether the Board 
should make the suggested liberalization without knowing all of the 
arguments on both sides. In his opinion the Board should look at any 
specific proposal against the background of over-all considerations. 
Governor Daane agreed, expressing the view that such questions 
should not be handled on an ad hoc basis. Instead, the Board should 
try to find some clearly justifiable line that could be drawn as a 
policy matter. 
Governor Brimmer said he would be willing to have the question 
referred back to the Board's staff and await the staff recommendations. 
Whenever questions of this kind came up, he felt they should be handled 
in a responsible manner. 
Governor Mitchell observed that he had never agreed with the 
position taken by the Board previously. A review of the record would 
bear that out. While there were many projects currently in process, 
that was not a reason to adhere to an obsolete position. The basic 

411 
2/3/67 
-10-
difficulty lay in the statutory inhibitions, but he thought the Legal 
Division should not have too much difficulty in coming forward with 
recommendations consistent with the position that he gathered a number 
of the members of the Board now favored. In his view it was also likely 
that there had been some change in the thinking of the Federal Reserve 
Banks since 1962. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that the letter to the Boston 
Bank be amended in the manner he had suggested, that it be sent, and 
that copies be transmitted to all of the Reserve Banks in order to 
obtain their reactions. 
Governor Mitchell noted that that would involve some delay and 
said he would prefer to have the Board's staff come forward with a 
liberalized policy position that the Board could consider and then 
submit to the Reserve Banks for their views. 
Mr. Hexter commented that within a relatively short time the 
staff could assemble the suggestions made in 1962, the supporting rea-
sons advanced at that time, the arguments made by the Reserve Banks, 
and the reasons for the Board's decision. 
Governor Mitchell observed that banks were now able to offer 
many services that they could not have offered in 1962, but Governor 
Daane maintained that that did not change the fundamental point. He 
would not be willing at this time to say that the prohibition against 
payment of interest on demand deposits should be repealed. The mere 

412 
2/3/67 
-10-
fact that banks had the ability to do something did not mean that the 
Board should say that the practice was proper. Governor Mitchell again 
observed that the Board was hampered by the terms of the law. He 
thought it became a matter of what the Legal Division would find that 
the Board was able to permit consistent with the terms of the statute. 
Governor Shepardson referred to the list of studies currently 
in process and said he did not regard it as urgent to change the Board's 
1962 position simply because of the member bank's letter. He felt it 
would be desirable to conclude some of the numerous current projects 
before undertaking a study of the question now under discussion. Such 
a study would have to go beyond the one question specifically raised 
by the member bank's letter. 
Governor Robertson agreed. He then repeated the suggestions he 
had made earlier for amending the proposed letter and described the 
procedure he would follow for obtaining the views of the Reserve Banks. 
Governors Shepardson and Daane indicated that they would favor 
such an approach. Governor Mitchell said he would not favor it; he 
thought it was the Board's responsibility to study such questions 
rather than to shift the responsibility to the Reserve Banks. Governor 
Brimmer also disagreed, stating that he would prefer to have the Board's 
staff put together a memorandum, let the Board reach a tentative judg-
ment, and then request the views of the Reserve Banks. 
Accordingly, the procedure suggested by Governor Robertson was 
approved, Governors Mitchell and Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the 

413 
2/3/67 
-10-
letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston is attached as Item 
No. 5. It was understood that a letter to be sent to all Federal 
Reserve Banks would be drafted. 
Cincinnati Branch building matter (Item No. 6). There had been 
distributed a draft of letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
prepared by Mr. Daniels under date of February 2, 1967, interposing no 
objection to a proposal advanced by the Bank in a letter of October 5, 
1966, that the architects retained in connection with the proposed new 
Cincinnati Branch building be paid in full for work that had to be 
scrapped or abandoned because of changes requested in the course of 
planning, and that the American Institute of Architects' standard form 
of agreement be executed to cover other and future payments. The draft 
letter noted that the subject had been discussed at the time of the 
meeting of the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans with representatives of the Bank on January 27, 1967. 
Mr. Farrell explained the background of this proposal, comment-
ing that its purpose was to permit resolving outstanding claims by the 
architects for certain services- rendered and to permit the Bank to 
amend the arrangement with the architects in such manner as to make it 
clear that Board approval of future payments on a step-by-step basis 
was not required. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he had discussed the matter with 
the architects and representatives of the Cleveland Bank following the 

1 1 4 
2/3/67 
-12-
January 27 meeting and that he favored tidying up the situation in the 
manner proposed. 
Following adoption of certain suggestions for editorial changes 
in the text, the letter was approved unanimously in the form attached 
as Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson, 
acting under the authority vested in him 
by the Board for administration of the 
voluntary foreign credit restraint pro-
gram, sent under date of February 2, 1967, 
a letter to the Presidents of all Federal 
Reserve Banks regarding a modification of 
reports requested from banks participating 
in the program. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Letters to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (copies attached 
as Items 8 and 9) approving the appointment of Donald W. Brill as 
assistant examiner and the designation of G. Dwight Hearn as special 
assistant examiner. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
January 30, 1967, submitting a recommendation of the Consultant 
Committee on Prices and Price Measurement that Professor Yoran Barzel 
of the University of Washington be commissioned to prepare a study of 
price indexes for service industries, with payment of an honorarium 
of $1,500. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
February 2, 1967, recommending the establishment of an additional 
economist position in the Banking Section. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 

415 
2/3/67 
-10-
Appointments 
Robert James Freeman as Data Control Clerk, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,507, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Alice Angela Lancaster as Research Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $7,090, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Permission to engage in outside activities 
Herman 0. Stekler, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
to review a manuscript on economic concentration and business cycles 
prior to publication. 
Chester Jordan, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
to work as a musician on a part-time basis. 
t 

15 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2055T 
Item No. 5 
2/3/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 3, 1967. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
. Reference is made to your letter dated January 19, 1967, 
enclosing a copy of a Consent signed under date of January 19, 
1967, on behalf of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York/sole 
shareholder of your Corporation, consenting to the amendment of 
the Articles of Association of your Corporation to increase the 
capital stock to $11,000,000, consisting of 110,000 shares of the 
par value of $100 each. 
. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment to Article 
SEVENTH. 
Please advise the Board of Governors when the capital 
increase has been effected. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

417 
Item No. 2 
2/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 3, 1967. 
First Chicago International 
Banking Corporation, 
1290 Avenue of the Americas, 
New York, New York. 10019 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 18, 1967, 
enclosing a copy of the minutes of your annual meeting of stockholders 
which amended Article SECOND of the Articles of Association of your 
Corporation to include engaging in international or foreign financial 
operations as one of the purposes of your Corporation. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment to Article 
SECOND of your Articles of Association to read: 
"SECOND. This corporation is being organized for the purpose 
of engaging in international or foreign banking and inter-
national or foreign financial operations within the limitations 
prescribed in section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and 
regulations thereunder, either directly or through the agency, 
ownership, or control of local institutions in foreign countries 
or in dependencies or insular possessions of the United States." 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
.of Gov 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTE 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 

418 
B O A R D CDF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
2/3/67 
• • • • • 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
• » . . • 
February 3, 1967 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 18, 1967, 
enclosing a copy of the minutes of your annual meeting of stockholders 
which amended Article SECOND of the Articles of Association of your 
Corporation to include engaging in international or foreign banking 
as one of the purposes of your Corporation. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment to Article 
SECOND of your Articles of Association to read: 
"SECOND. 
This corporation is being organized for the pur-
pose of engaging in international or foreign banking and 
international or foreign financial operations within the 
limitations prescribed in section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act and regulations thereunder, either directly 
or through the agency, ownership, or control of local in-
stitutions in foreign countries or in dependencies or insular 
possessions of the United States." 
Very truly yours 9 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

419 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 4 
OF THE 
2/3/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 3, 1967. 
The First National Bank of Chicago, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 5, 1966, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act and any regulations of the Board which may hereafter 
be promulgated, for The First National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois, to purchase and hold approximately 2,860 bearer shares of 
the capital stock of N. V. Slavenburg's Bank, Rotterdam, The Nether-
lands, at a cost of approximately US$1,404,000, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
It is noted that The Slavenburg Corporation, an indirect 
affiliate of N. V. Slavenburg's Bank organized under New York law, 
is generally engaged in import and export financing in the United 
States. 
One of the activities in which The Slavenburg Corporation 
engages in the United States is the granting of loans secured by 
accounts receivable to finance the sale of domestic goods. 
It is 
the judgment of the Board that such activity is not incidental to 
the international or foreign business of N. V. Slavenburg's Bank 
and is, accordingly, inconsistent with the prohibition in Section 25 
against the acquisition by a national bank of stock of a foreign 
bank which is engaged, directly or indirectly, in any activity in 
the United States except as, in the judgment of the Board, is in-
cidental to the international or foreign business of such foreign 
bank. 
Therefore, the Board's consent is granted subject to the con-
dition that the above-described activity of The Slavenburg Corpora-
tion in the United States be discontinued. 
It is also noted that The Slavenburg Corporation has 
occasionally made inventory loans in connection with imported mer-
chandise prior to its being sold. 
The volume of this type of loan 

B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
420 
The First National Bank of Chicago 
-2-
was stated to be "relatively insubstantial.11 
The Board's consent to 
the investment is granted subject to the further conditions that 
this activity will not be increased, and that the Board may require 
The First National Bank of Chicago to furnish information concerning 
activities of The Slavenburg Corporation in the United States from 
time to time. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of The First National Bank of Chicago, will not cause 
the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines es-
tablished under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

421 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
O F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
2/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
D F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 3, 1967 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
This refers to your letter of January 13, 1967, with 
respect to the automatic withdrawal of funds from a savings account 
in a member bank in order to make payments for various purposes. 
As you know, the provision of Regulation Q authorizing 
withdrawals from savings accounts, now contained in section 217.5(c), 
permits, under subsection (2) (ii), withdrawals by the bank, pursuant 
to the depositor's written instructions, in order to make regular 
payments of principal, interest, or other charges on a real estate 
loan or mortgage. 
When Regulation Q was amended in 1962, this provision was 
included to codify a long standing permission by the Board published 
in the 1939 F.R. Bulletin at page 850. Consideration was given in 
1962 to permitting withdrawals for various other purposes, but the 
Board, after careful consideration, decided not to extend this 
authority. 
Therefore, in order to qualify under the present regulation, 
the indebtedness must be one secured by real estate or a mortgage. 
Loans for the purpose of making real estate improvements may not be 
included unless so secured. 
The provision in section 217.5(c)(1)(iii) permitting any 
creditor, including the bank, to realize upon the security of a 
savings deposit likewise is a limited permission and should not be 
availed of unless there has been default on an obligation. 
This 
minimizes the possibility that a depositor will make a practice, with 
the bank's agreement, of merely refraining from reimbursing the bank 
for having paid bills or checks on his behalf and permitting the bank 

422 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr. 
-2-
to withdraw funds from the savings account to repay the indebtedness. 
This provision of the regulation was added in 1962 because a bank in 
another Federal Reserve District inaugurated a plan to permit checks 
to be drawn against a no-balance account, to consider the payment of 
such checks as a loan to the depositor, and if such loan was not repaid 
by a certain date, for the bank to withdraw amounts from the depositor's 
savings account to eliminate the indebtedness. 
This was in effect the 
same as permitting checks to be drawn on a savings account or, putting 
it another way, it was equivalent to the payment of interest on the 
dormant portion of a checking account. Accordingly, the regulation 
was amended and the bank was required to change the procedure. 
It is believed that this review of the subject of permitting 
withdrawals from savings accounts will assist your Bank in answering 
a request for clarification of the present provisions of Regulation Q. 
However, you are requested to make it clear that the Board is prepared 
to consider proposals to amend the regulation so as to enable banks to 
render greater service. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

423 
BDARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
. ^ o V c o v - . . 
O F T H E 
2/3/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
'
-
W
m
m
r
n
: 
* 
I EI 
ADDRESS DrriCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
:mmn\miiF 
"
•
f
o
M
^
^
^
V 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 3, 1967. 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
This refers to the copy of a proposed amendment to the 
agreement of your Bank with the architects Harry Hake and Harry 
Hake, Jr., which was transmitted with your letter of October 5, 1966. 
At the meeting with the Board's Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans last Friday, attended by representa-
tives of your Bank's Head Office and the Cincinnati Branch, together 
with the architects, it was understood that some change should be 
made in the arrangements for payment for the architects1 services. 
The Board has considered the matter and will interpose 
no objection to an arrangement whereby Harry Hake and Harry Hake, Jr., 
would be paid in full for work on scrapped or abandoned schemes in 
planning for the Cincinnati Branch building. 
Other and future pay-
ments would be made in accordance with the American Institute of 
Architects' standard form of agreement, as set forth in Article 6 
thereof, copy enclosed. 
(In this connection, the term "preliminary 
plans" as used in the Board's letter of December 1, 1953 (S-1518; 
F.R.L.S. #3053) is understood to be the equivalent of the "schematic 
design phase" and the "design development phase," together, as those 
terms are used in Article 6.) 
The proposal outlined above has been discussed informally 
with Mr. Breidenbach, members of the staff of the Cincinnati Branch, 
and Mr. Harry Hake, Jr. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Enclosure 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
or T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N O T O N 
Item No. 7 
2/3/67 
February 2, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
The 1967 guidelines for banks, issued under the President's 
balance of payments program, contain a request (Section B(3) of 
Guideline 1) that banks limit their nonexpert credits to developed 
countries to the amount of such credits outstanding on September 30, 
1966, plus 10 per cent of the leeway then available under the program 
for 1966. 
This request emphasized the importance of meeting all 
requirements for priority credits, i.e., credits to finance exports 
of U. S. goods and services and to meet the needs of the developing 
countries. 
At the time the 1967 guidelines were drafted, and after 
consultation with many bankers, it was thought that it would be 
feasible for the banks to segregate export from nonexport credits. 
However, we have now been told that the required segregation is, if 
not impossible, at least extremely difficult and costly. 
We do not wish to impose an unreasonable reporting burden 
on the banks. 
All we expect is continuance of the good faith effort 
to comply with the guidelines that has characterized the participation 
of the banking fraternity in the balance of payments program. 
Con-
sequently, we have decided to eliminate the request to report "nonexport 
credits to developed countries," and to substitute a breakdown between 
credits to "developed" and "all other" countries. 
Form 391 (copy 
enclosed) has been revised accordingly. 
At the same time, each bank should be requested to continue 
to adhere as closely as feasible to the provisions of Guideline 1 B(3), 
while maintaining the principle of absolute priority for export credits. 
Needless to say, this priority applies to all new credit commitments, 
whether the credit in question represents an expansion in the total 
outstanding or a relending of funds provided by pay-offs of existing 
0 credits. 
Please bring the contents of this letter to the attention 
of the reporting banks in your District. 
Sincerely, 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

425 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
2/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 3, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of January 31, 1967, the Board 
approves the appointment of Donald W. Brill as 
an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond, effective today. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

426 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
2/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R O 
February 3, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of January 30, 1967, the Board approves the 
designation of G. Dwight Hearn as a special assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
