P 609 
" 5-67) 
Minutes for 
March 13, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
adv ise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
M l 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, March 13, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Doyle of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull, King, Lawrence, Lougee, and Wiles 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Miss Durkan and Messrs. Walter and White of the 
Division of Bank Operations 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Bank of Greenwood, Greenwood, Mississippi, into First 
National Bank of Jackson, Jackson, Mississippi, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion, which had been 

10 3 
3/13/68 
-2-
revised in the light of comments made at the meeting on February 29, 
1968, read as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition between 
First National Bank of Jackson and The Bank of 
Greenwood, although there is some potential for 
competition between them through de novo branching. 
The Bank of Greenwood is by far the largest bank in 
the Greenwood area; since this position would be 
assumed by one of the two large banks in the State, 
the overall competitive effect is adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Deposit Guaranty National 
Bank, Jackson, Mississippi, and City Bank & Trust Company, Natchez, 
Mississippi, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptrol-
ler. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition between 
Deposit Guaranty National Bank, Jackson, Mississippi, 
and City Bank & Trust Company, Natchez, Mississippi, 
although there is potential for greater competition 
between them through de novo branching. City Bank 
& Trust Company is the largest bank in the Natchez 
area; since this position would be assumed by one 
of two large banks in the State, the overall com-
petitive effect is adverse. 
Report on S. 3097 (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking and 
Currency reporting on S. 3097, a bill "To amend the Defense Production 
Act of 1950, and for other purposes." A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Vault construction and protection (Item No. 2). 
Consideration 
of the Cincinnati Branch building program at the Board meeting on 

3/13/68 
-3-
February 13, 1968, revolved around questions relating to the use of 
18-inch walls as opposed to 24-inch walls, both reinforced with Steel-
crete, in the main security vaults of Federal Reserve Banks. The 
Divis ion of Bank Operations was requested to prepare a report that 
would bring together available information that might be considered 
by the Board in developing guidelines for Reserve Bank vault construc-
tion and protection. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 5, 
1968, from the Divis ion of Bank Operations that summarized and com-
mented on the various factors involved. On the basis of this analysis 
the Division recommended that (1) copies of the report be sent to all 
Reserve Banks for comment before any System-wide standards were set 
for vault construction; (2) a preference for 18-inch Steelcrete walls 
be indicated by the Board in those cases where Reserve Bank building 
programs demanded an early decision on vault specifications; and (3) 
the Board indicate a belief that the alarm systems and guard forces 
°f a Reserve Bank were more important than the thickness or reinforc-
ing of vault walls in protecting valuables, and should be put on a 
"fail safe" basis to the extent possible. 
At today's meeting Mr. Farrell reviewed in some detail the 
Principal topics covered in the document. Among other points he noted 
that there was some division of opinion on the question of construction 
of vault walls. Mr. Bouck of the Secret Service, who had been acting 

103 
3/13/68 
-4-
as the Board's consultant on security matters, doubted that the extra 
protection afforded by a 24-inch wall would be worth the extra cost; 
rather he recommended that every effort be made to insure strong guard 
forces and reliable alarm systems. In this connection the Division 
suggested that the subject of vault protection measures involving 
guards be discussed at the System conference of officers in charge of 
Reserve Bank protection departments that was to be held at the Board's 
building on Friday, March 15. Also, the Division of Bank Operations 
would continue to work toward the development of guidelines for Federal 
Reserve alarm systems. 
Mr. Farrell said that Mr. Witherell, the Board's Consulting 
Architect, had expressed the view that specifications for Federal 
Reserve vaults should meet more than the minimum requirement for top 
insurance ratings; accordingly, he recommended 24-inch Steelcrete 
walls for the new Cincinnati vault. A slight majority within the 
Divi sion of Bank Operations leaned toward 18-inch walls, with Steel-
crete reinforcing, as being sufficient. The minority agreed that such 
walls would probably be about as effective against penetration as the 
24-inch walls. However, they felt that the 24-inch Steelcrete walls 
would promote a better image of impregnability. 
At the instance of Governor Mitchell, there followed comments 
on the extent to which the factors now discussed by the Division of 
Bank Operations with respect to alarm and guard systems supplemented 

1.03 
3/13/68 
-5-
or went beyond the recommendations made by the Secret Service in its 
recent survey of protection at the Federal Reserve Banks and branches. 
There was general agreement that the factors now being discussed 
reached into new areas of the problem of protection. However, Governor 
Robertson noted that the experience gained in the surveys should be 
useful in developing recommendations that would remedy existing defi-
ciencies and provide guidelines for new installations. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the Division memoran-
dum approached the problem too much in the vein that the Federal Reserve 
Banks were private rather than public institutions. From that point of 
view, several of the ideas set forth in the document seemed to him 
inappropriate. 
In particular he would object to hooking up the Reserve 
Banks to a system of outside surveillance that included commercial 
banks or other private institutions. 
Standards that might be appropri-
ate for the latter appeared to him inadequate for Federal Reserve pur-
poses. He pointed out certain parts of the memorandum that illustrated 
his concern. 
Mr. Farrell clarified that the tentative suggestions set forth 
in the memorandum were intended to be aimed almost exclusively at night 
and weekend protection. He explained alternative procedures that might 
be followed, with the advantages and weaknesses of each, and stressed 
the importance of the alarm and guard systems. The memorandum, he 
said, was intended principally to elicit comments and suggestions from 
a variety of sources. 

103 
3/13/68 
-6-
Governor Robertson agreed that the current report should be 
regarded as just one step in a continuing study. In connection with 
the building program at Cincinnati, attention had focused on the ques-
tion of the thickness of the vault walls. Although this study empha-
sized that particular question, the Board and the Reserve Banks would 
benefit from distribution of the document as a vehicle for obtaining 
the views of everyone concerned on a number of questions relating to 
adequacy of protection. 
Governor Sherrill also agreed that the problem should be a 
matter of on-going study. The thickness of the vault wall was only 
one phase of the problem; other phases were as important, in fact more 
so. He suggested that if the memorandum was sent to the Reserve Banks, 
the point should be stressed. 
Governor Maisel suggested that several points needed clarifi-
cation. For example, in terms of cost-benefit analysis, what other 
benefits could be gained in exchange for less costly walls ? Another 
point related to procedures for dealing with hostages; if rules were 
not already in effect, they should be promulgated. Then there was the 
question of the responsibility, if any, of the national defense estab-
lishment with respect to protection of the vaults of the central bank. 
In further discussion additional areas for study were mentioned 
and suggestions made for changes in the memorandum that would meet some 
of the views expressed at today's meeting. 

3/13/68 
-7-
Unanimous approval was then given to a telegram to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland interposing no objection to revised plans 
and cost estimates for the new Cincinnati building that would include 
a vault the walls, floor, and ceiling of which would be of 18-inch 
concrete reinforced with Steelcrete. A copy of the telegram is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
It was understood that an amended version of the memorandum 
on vault construction and protection would be transmitted to the Presi-
dents of all Federal Reserve Banks for comment, after which the sub-
ject would be considered further by the Board. 
(A copy of the memo-
t 
randum, in the form in which it was subsequently transmitted, has been 
placed in the Board's files.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Pursuant to previous 
discussion by the Board, and in light of 
clarification obtained by Chairman Martin, 
a telegram was sent on March 12, 1968, to 
Dr. 0. Meredith Wilson, Director of the 
Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral 
Sciences at Stanford University, Palo Alto, 
California, appointing him, effective May 1, 
1968, as a Class C director of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco for the unex-
pired portion of the term ending December 31, 
1970, and designating him as Chairman and 
Federal Reserve Agent for the remainder of 
the year 1968, with compensation fixed at 
an amount equal to the fees that would be 
payable to any other director of the Bank 
for equivalent time and attendance to offi-
cial business. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 

3/13/68 
-8-
Memorandum from Mr. Solomon, Director of the Division of Examina 
tions, dated March 13, 1968, recommending the establishment of the 
following positions in the Securities Credit Regulation Unit of the 
Task Force-Special Regulations: 
one secretary, two stenographers, 
and one clearing and recording clerk. 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
March 7, 1968, requesting authorization to employ a part-time sub-
stitute (Elise Stanley) on a temporary contractual basis to replace 
the Ass 
istant Manager of the Cafeteria while the latter is on mater-
nity leave, with compensation at the rate of $3 per hour, it being 
understood that the substitute would be employed full time should 
the Manager of the Cafeteria be absent. 
Memorandum from the Division of Data Processing recommending 
the appointment of Garland Lee Higgins as Programmer in that Divi-
sion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $8,592, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty, it being understood that the Board 
would pay the cost of moving his household effects from Richmond, 
Virginia, 
to Washington, D. C., along with transportation expenses 
for Mr. Higgins and his immediate family. 
"Secretary 

V-. 
s* 
tu • 
h ' f: 
•j * 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Q F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No, 
3/13/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 14, 1968 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This refers to your letter of March 6, 1968 
requesting a report by the Board of Governors on the bill, 
S. 3097, "To amend the Defense Production Act of 1950, and 
for other purposes," which would extend that Act, as 
amended, for two years to June 30, 1970. Under the Board's 
Regulation V and pursuant to Title III of the Act and 
Executive Order No. 10480 dated August 14, 1953, the Federal 
Reserve Banks act as fiscal agents of the United States in 
issuing guarantees authorized by the various defense procure-
ment agencies, covering certain loans made by private lenders 
to finance production of goods and services considered 
essential to the national security. 
The Board has no objection to the proposed exten-
sion of this legislation. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

M 
T E L E G R A M 
! ^Sip;; 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
LKAtKD WIRE 1EKVICE 
Item NO . 2 
3/13/68 
March 13, 1968. 
HICKMAN - CLEVELAND 
Board has no objection to revised plans and 
cost estimates for new Cincinnati building referred to 
in your letter of December 14, 1967, to Mr. Daniels, 
with the understanding, however, that plans and specifica-
tions for the vault will provide that walls, floor, and 
ceiling are to be of concrete 18 inches thick reinforced 
with Steelcrete. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
\ 
KENYON 
' \. 
