Minutes for February 14, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

485 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, February 14, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Heller and Messrs. Cloth and Shuter of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Golden, Ettin, Lougee, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, Guth, Kline, Lyon, 
Pounds tone, and Rumbarger of the Division 
of Examinations 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 

486 
2/14/67 
-10-
available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora- 
1 
tion regarding the application of Bank of Waldron, 
Waldron, Arkansas, for continuation of deposit 
insurance after withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to Bank of America, New York, New York, 
2 
consenting to the acquisition of additional 
shares of Financial Corporation for Overseas 
Countries, Geneva, Switzerland. 
Messrs. Sammons and Pounds tone then withdrew from the meeting. 
Application of Hawkeye Bancorporation. There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated January 27, 1967, from the Division of Examina-
tions, with other pertinent papers, regarding the application of Hawkeye 
Bancorporation, Red Oak, Iowa, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of Houghton State 
Bank, Red Oak, Iowa. (The applicant already controlled 97.4 per cent of 
Lyon County State Bank, Rock Rapids, Iowa.) The Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago and the Board's Division of Examinations recommended denial. The 
appraisal of the case by the Division was summarized as follows: 
"The acquisition of these two small banks located over 
200 miles apart should have no effect on concentration or 
competition. The convenience and needs of the communities 
concerned should also be little affected by the consummation 
of the proposal and although being considered consistent 
with approval, add little toward approval. Considerations 
leading to approval or denial of the application appear to 
rest entirely on the banking factors. 

487 
2/14/67 
-10-
"The management activities of President Dunlap, who is 
the dominating influence in Houghton Bank as well as in 
Applicant, have affected the general condition of Houghton 
Bank in a manner that is believed detrimental to the best 
interests of that bank. When considering the continuing 
effect that the policies of present management are likely 
to have on the capital adequacy and asset condition of 
Houghton Bank, and thus on Applicant, it is believed that 
the financial resources of Houghton Bank and of Applicant 
are less than satisfactory, and that managerial resources 
can be judged no better than fair. In view of these condi-
tions, prospects of the Banks and Applicant do not appear 
to be overly favorable unless the present trend at Houghton 
Bank is reversed. 
"We are aware that management of the Banks will probably 
remain essentially the same whether or not the holding company 
proposal is activated. However, approval of the application 
would permit the cementing of a relationship that otherwise 
might be altered at a future date. Further, the Division 
would hesitate to recommend that the Board approve the solid-
ification of a relationship under the Bank Holding Company Act 
that would be subject to its criticism if it were found to 
exist in one of the System's member banks." 
The Banking Markets Section of the Division of Research and 
Statistics concluded that the proposal posed no competitive issue, since 
the two small banks involved were 200 miles apart; neither did the pro-
posed holding company promise any significant contribution to the con-
venience and needs in the communities of Red Oak or Rock Rapids. 
Governor Shepardson, after summary comments by Mr. Lyon, ques-
tioned the conclusion that no significant benefits to the convenience 
and needs of the communities would be derived from the proposal. He 
agreed that there probably would not be a great deal of benefit from 
the immediate plan, involving only two small banks, but it was understood 
that the proponents contemplated the acquisition of other country banks. 

488 
2/14/67 
-4-
In a highly developed agricultural region like Iowa, demands for farm 
credit were increasing, and an additional multi-unit banking organiza-
tion such as this might become could make a significant contribution to 
the needs of the area by taking care of those demands better than unit 
banks could. A further move in the direction of bank holding company 
organizations would provide an alternative to reliance upon correspon-
dents, whose services were not always entirely satisfactory. Governor 
Shepardson was troubled by the over-reaching tendency of management, 
but he was not sure how much negative weight should be given to that 
aspect. President Dunlap apparently knew how to handle substandard 
loans, and his banks had not suffered undue losses. 
Mr. Lyon indicated that the Division of Examinations was inclined 
to agree that benefits might accrue if the proposed bank holding company 
acquired additional banks; however, the present application contemplated 
only two. Governor Shepardson replied that if a holding company system 
was to be developed it had to make a start. He believed it would be a 
mistake to deny the potentiality of benefits because the beginning was 
not of great magnitude. He reiterated the belief that while the present 
proposal, involving only two banks, probably would not result in a great 
deal of benefit, an affiliation of half a dozen banks might well afford 
improvement. 
In response to queries from Governors Mitchell and Maisel, it 
was brought out that Mr. Dunlap was associated with a bank in Nebraska 

489 
2/14/67 
-5-
and that through separate corporations he owned two small banks in Pella 
and Clinton, Iowa. It was understood that these latter two banks were 
expected to be acquired later by the proposed bank holding company. 
Governor Daane observed that, although denial of the applica-
tion might have the effect of keeping the present control from being 
solidified, denial would have no constructive effect in correcting the 
management policies that had been criticized. He inquired as to the 
possibility of bringing constructive efforts to bear upon the areas that 
needed improvement. As Governor Shepardson had pointed out, there was 
at least some potential benefit to be derived from a holding company 
organization, and it seemed to Governor Daane that, since denial would 
not change the practicalities of the situation in terms of the possibly 
over-liberal management, the appropriate course might be for the respon-
sible supervisory authority to bring pressure for improvement of banking 
practices. 
Comments on Governor Daane's point brought out that the Bank 
Holding Company Act provided no controls over banking practices addi-
tional to those available to the Board under other statutes; that the 
only thing denial would accomplish in the direction of inhibiting 
undesirable practices would be to preclude the bringing together of 
additional banks within a holding company organization; and that the 
Federal supervisory agency having jurisdiction over the two banks here 
involved was the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 

490 
2/14/67 
-10-
Comments were also made regarding the possibility of a condi-
tional decision. In this regard, it was pointed out that the Board had 
customarily refrained from imposing conditions to approval. The Board 
had sometimes let an applicant know that it was disposed to deny an 
application because of certain aspects; however, such a situation had 
involved specific circumstances that appeared objectionable. 
Governor Brimmer noted that if the proposal contemplated even-
tually setting up a four-bank holding company the probable benefit under 
the convenience and needs factor might be sufficient to offset some of 
the adverse banking factors. He inquired whether, if there was substance 
to the understood intention to acquire additional banks, the staff would 
recommend viewing the current application with more favor. 
Mr. Lyon responded that the two aforementioned small banks in 
Iowa had been acquired by Mr. Dunlap so recently that there had been no 
subsequent examinations. If it were ascertained that the asset condition 
of those banks was not satisfactory, that would militate against approval 
of an application that included them as well as the Red Oak and Rock 
Rapids banks. 
Mr. Solomon indicated that the Division of Examinations, like 
the Chicago Reserve Bank, had been concerned about the fact that avail-
able evidence regarding Mr. Dunlap's methods of operation was not 
reassuring. It presented a pattern that did not seem to justify endorse-
ment. In view of the reservations that had been mentioned in regard to 

491 
2/14/67 
-7-
management, it seemed questionable whether the proposed holding company 
would provide a vehicle for improved service to the public. 
Governor Daane observed that the State banking authorities had 
referred to Mr. Dunlap as "aggressive but capable and reliable" and 
indicated that the problem reflected principally a lack of sufficient 
qualified officer personnel. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
examiner had stated that Mr. Dunlap appeared to be a reasonably capable 
executive officer with somewhat liberal credit attitudes. Such expres-
sions raised the question whether the Board would be warranted in denying 
the application on the ground of poor management, which seemed to be the 
critical point. 
Governor Mitchell stated that he saw nothing in the record to 
support the position that Mr. Dunlap should not be allowed to operate 
a bank holding company, especially when the other bank supervisory 
authorities had given him at least partial endorsement. Since there 
appeared to be no hostile considerations in regard to convenience and 
needs or competition, the matter appeared to come down to the management 
issue. 
Governor Brimmer asked if it might be advisable to invite Mr. 
Dunlap in for a hearing before the Board acted on the application. While 
he shared the concern expressed as to the management factor, it appeared 
that perhaps not enough weight had been given to factors that might 
warrant approval. 

492 
2/14/67 
-10-
Mr. Solomon expressed the view that a formal hearing might not 
be particularly helpful. However, the Board might wish to have Mr. 
Dunlap appear for an oral presentation. 
Mr. O'Connell said the Legal Division shared the concern that 
had been noted with reference to the fact that the Board's action must 
be premised on the record. At present the record in regard to manage-
ment was based on judgments of the examining authorities, namely, the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the State Banking Department. 
The Federal Reserve had superimposed on those views an additional judg-
ment, but it was not one based on immediate evidence. If the Board 
should deny the application, on the basis of the present record, it 
would have to rely on some of the information in the reports of exami-
nations by the State and the Corporation. However, that information in 
some respects seemed to lean more toward approval than denial. A sharper 
view of the case, and more direct evidence of the quality of management 
and of its expectation in regard to acquiring other banks, might be 
obtained through an oral presentation. If the Board should choose such 
a course, he would suggest that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and the State Banking Department be invited to be represented. The 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago also might be asked to participate. 
After further discussion it was agreed that arrangements would 
be made for an oral presentation, with the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, the Iowa State Banking Department, and the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago invited to participate. 

493 
2/14/67 
-10-
Applications of First National Corporation and Valley Bancorpo-
ration. There had been distributed memoranda dated February 3, 1967, 
from the Division of Examinations, with other pertinent papers, relating 
to the applications of (1) First National Corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, 
to acquire 14,500 of the 15,000 voting shares to be issued by First 
National Bank West, Grand Chute Township, Wisconsin, a proposed new bank; 
and (2) Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire 9,875 of 
the 10,000 voting shares of American State Bank, Grand Chute Township, 
Wisconsin, a recently-opened bank. American State Bank was now operating 
as an affiliate of Valley Bancorporation, although the latter had indi-
cated that if its application to acquire the bank was denied it was 
doubtful that a close affiliation through common stock ownership could 
be maintained. It was understood that First National Bank West would 
not be opened except as a subsidiary of First National Corporation. 
The Division of Examinations recommended denial of both applica-
tions, on the grounds that (1) to permit the acquisition of American 
State Bank by Valley Bancorporation would increase the already heavy 
concentration of banking organizations in the area, eliminate present 
competition between American State Bank and Valley's Appleton subsidiary, 
and foreclose potential competition between the two; and (2) to permit 
First National Corporation to acquire and operate First National Bank 
West would create an additional unit of the dominant banking organization 
in the Grand Chute Township area, which action would be, in effect, a 

494 
2/14/67 
-10-
pre-emption of a location that might later be filled by an independent 
competitor when warranted by area growth. 
The Bank Examinations Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago recommended approval of the Valley Bancorporation application 
and denial of the First National application. The Reserve Bank's 
Research Department recommended denial of both applications. 
During introductory remarks Mr. Lyon brought out that the appli-
cation of First National Corporation, filed in June 1966, had been held 
in order that it might be considered in conjunction with the application 
of Valley Bancorporation, received in August 1966, inasmuch as the service 
areas involved were so closely related. The locations of the two new 
banks were only about two blocks apart. Also, after the Valley Bancorpo-
ration application was received the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had 
made a special survey of the market areas involved, which had resulted 
in no change in the recommendations of the Bank's Examinations and 
Research Departments. 
Mr. Smith stated that, while the Banking Markets Section had 
made no recommendation in regard to either case, it had seemed to the 
Section that both applications should be treated alike, whether denied 
or approved. He mentioned briefly the considerations favoring approval 
and those that would support denial, the circumstances in these respects 
appearing to be parallel between the two cases in many respects. 
Governor Shepardson stated that he found it difficult to accept 
the reasoning that the two cases must be treated alike. As he read the 

495 
2/14/67 
-10-
record, the probable expansion of American State Bank would be in the 
direction of the highly-developed dairy section, where there was a 
substantial demand for credit. He understood that American State Bank 
was paying particular attention to agricultural credit and intended to 
employ an agricultural credit expert to work with the dairymen. It 
seemed to Governor Shepardson that such service would provide a signif-
icant convenience. American State Bank was already in existence and 
would operate in any event, but the question was whether such a small 
bank, operating independently, could meet local needs as efficiently as 
it could if it were affiliated with Valley Bancorporation, which was at 
present oriented to the need for agricultural credit in the area. Unless 
there was some circumstance to be brought out that he did not see at pres-
ent, he believed there was justification for separating the applications. 
It seemed to him that the Valley Bancorporation application might well 
be approved, whereas he agreed that denial of the First National appli-
cation would be justified in view of the proposed activities of First 
National Bank West, the apparent lack of need for an additional bank in 
the Grand Chute Township area at this time, and the pre-emption of terri-
tory by First National Corporation. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that while American State Bank would 
be of respectable size as a branch, which was in effect its present 
status, he questioned whether it could survive as an independent insti-
tution in the absence of affiliation with Valley Bancorporation. He 

496 
2/14/67 
-10-
also questioned whether the degree of banking concentration in the 
Appleton area was really excessive in the light of percentages that 
existed elsewhere. He then read figures relating to banking concentra-
tion in various other cities. 
Governor Maisel observed that the concentration factor had been 
written into the Bank Holding Company Act because concentrations such 
as those cited by Governor Mitchell had occurred, and Mr. O'Connell 
added that in many such cases there had never been an opportunity for 
the Board to do anything about the growth of concentration. Mr. O'Connell 
believed that the Board was not only empowered but obligated to prevent 
even minimal increases in concentration if it believed the present per-
centages were adverse to normal, healthy competition. Here, however, 
there was the question of how successfully American State Bank could 
compete without affiliation with Valley Bancorporation. Consideration 
might be given also to the need for improving banking services. 
Governor Daane inquired, if Mr. Smith had to move from a neutral 
position, in which direction it would be. Mr. Smith responded that he 
thought he would lean toward the side of approval of both applications. 
Governor Shepardson observed that concentration cannot be viewed 
in abstract percentages. It is a relative matter; a given percentage 
may be adverse in one environment but not in another. He did not believe 
that the degree and nature of concentration in the Appleton area was 
objectionable. The institutions involved were not large, and the credit 

497 
2/14/67 
-10-
needs that were developing generally called for institutions larger 
than the $4 or $5 million banks scattered through the area. 
Governor Daane commented that the background material seemed to 
understate somewhat the fact that some needs would be served in the 
short run and, looking ahead, many more would be served. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the delay in processing the 
application of First National might have imposed a moral obligation on 
the Board because in the meantime the proposed subsidiary of Valley 
Bancorporation had been established. Mr. Solomon replied that he did 
not believe such an obligation existed. It had been understood from 
the beginning that First National's proposed subsidiary would not open 
unless it could do so as a subsidiary of the holding company, and that 
Valley Bancorporation's proposed subsidiary would operate regardless of 
whether its affiliation was approved. 
Other questions by Governor Maisel related to the special survey 
of banking markets conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, a 
principal conclusion of which was that there was no dissatisfaction 
with present banking services in the Grand Chute Township area. 
Governor Brimmer asked if the question of moral obligation might 
be present if First National's interest in the Grand Chute Township 
location had been genuine and the Board's delay had allowed the location 
to be pre-empted by Valley Bancorporation. Also, he would like to have 
a more specific judgment on the question whether American State Bank 
could live on its own if affiliation with the holding company was denied. 

498 
2/14/67 
-10-
Staff replies reflected a belief that the difference in time of 
filing of the applications had not been great enough to warrant a feel-
ing of obligation. Moreover, the structure of the applications, with 
one bank to be established in any event and the other bank's opening 
contingent upon approval of the holding company affiliation, had been 
determined before the applications were filed. Although it was agreed 
that American State Bank's chances would be better under holding company 
affiliation, it was observed that the one independent bank in Appleton 
had survived without such affiliation. 
After further discussion a vote was taken on each application. 
The application of First National Corporation to acquire First 
National Bank West was denied, Governors Mitchell and Daane dissenting. 
The application of Valley Bancorporation to acquire American 
State Bank was approved, Governors Robertson and Maisel dissenting. 
It was understood that orders and statements reflecting these 
decisions would be prepared for the Board's consideration, and that 
dissenting statements also would be prepared. 
Messrs. Smith, Cloth, Golden, Lougee, Wiles, Burton, Donovan, 
Guth, Kline, Lyon, and Rumbarger, and Mrs. Heller then withdrew from 
the meeting and the following entered the room: 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mrs. Sette, Miss Stockwell, and Mrs. Ray of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 

499 
2/14/67 
-10-
Constructlon project procedures. Because of certain questions 
that had been raised in regard to procedures followed in connection with 
the letting of the contract for the new Denver Branch building, the staff 
had been requested to review the Board's outstanding instructions regard-
ing contracts for new Federal Reserve Bank and branch buildings. 
The principal question was whether, in situations where all bids 
received were considered to be too high, all bids should be rejected in 
writing and new bids called for on the basis of revised specifications, 
or whether negotiations might be entered into with the original low 
bidder for the purpose of reaching agreement as to a reduction in the 
bid in the light of revised specifications. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated January 23, 
1967, from Messrs. Farrell and O'Connell that reviewed the background 
of the question that had arisen in regard to the Denver project, 
described bidding procedures followed or recommended by General Services 
Administration and by the Associated General Contractors of America, and 
discussed varying approaches to the use of alternates in specifications. 
The memorandum concluded with the recommendation that the Board reaffirm 
its existing instructions providing that, where all bids received are 
considered to be too high, all bids shall be rejected and new bids called 
for on the basis of revised specifications. 
In support of this recommendation it was noted that the Board's 
existing instructions were compatible with the procedures followed by 

500 
2/14/67 
-10-
General Services Administration and with the option provided in the 
"Guide" pamphlet published by the Associated General Contractors. It 
was further recommended that the Board's letter of April 21, 1959, 
setting forth the existing instructions be strengthened by additional 
provisions indicating that no negotiations should be entered into with 
any of the bidders before a contract was awarded and asking, if a 
Reserve Bank was inclined to reject all bids, that the Board be informed 
of the circumstances before any final action was taken. A draft of 
letter in those terms was attached to the memorandum. 
Governor Maisel stated that certain elements of the outstanding 
instructions embodied a philosophy that he thought was wrong. In par-
ticular, the present instructions provided that "In an unsettled con-
struction market, it is advisable to include in the bidding documents 
sufficient alternates to insure ability to let a contract within the 
estimated cost that was the basis for the Board's authorization to call 
for bids." He believed a limited number of alternates was proper, 
although only a limited number. Basic components of a project should 
not be stated in alternates; if there was need to do so, that signified 
that insufficient thought had been given to the project. He believed 
it important that the trade-off of optional items be regarded as a 
management problem after the contract was bid, so that advantage could 
be taken of the contractor's knowledge of current prices for materials. 
The selections should not be made during the drawing stage; the architect 

501 
2/14/67 
-10-
was not so closely in touch with material prices as the contractor. 
Unless there was an opportunity for negotiation at the time construction 
was to be started, on the basis of conditions then existing, management 
had lost the opportunity to decide whether or not it wanted to pay for 
a particular feature. 
In summary, Governor Maisel's view was that it was right to pro-
vide some alternates in the bidding documents, but management would lose 
a great advantage if there was not an opportunity to negotiate with the 
low bidder regarding details. His preference was negotiation with the 
low bidder. If, however, the Board could not see its way clear to pro-
viding that, negotiation with the three low bidders would be his next 
choice. His third choice would be the procedure prescribed by General 
Services Administration, under which a second round of bids would not 
be publicly disclosed and negotiations were permitted with all respon-
sible second-round bidders who had submitted proposals within a competi-
tive range. 
Governor Shepardson expressed the view that major optional items 
that might make a significant difference in construction costs could be 
reasonably well determined and narrowed to a workable list; within that 
framework, he would be in favor of the use of alternates. As he under-
stood the proposed instructions to the Reserve Banks, they would not 
preclude negotiation on minor items. 
At the request of Chairman Martin, Governor Maisel then suggested 
changes that might be made in the draft letter to meet the points he had 

502 
2/14/67 
-10-
made. He recommended especially leaving to the Reserve Banks the ques-
tion of negotiating with the low bidder to bring down costs but still 
to provide a building that would meet the needs. He reiterated the view 
that the architect was not likely to have sufficient knowledge of prices. 
\ 
Therefore, specifications based on his estimates should be subject to 
negotiation with the contractor, who was closely in touch with the 
materials markets. 
Mr. Farrell described a system of seminars encouraged by the 
Associated General Contractors through which architects were kept in 
touch with current costs. It was understood that under that system the 
problem of contractors' bids exceeding architects' estimates was mini-
mized. 
Governor Maisel observed that if there was no great disparity 
between the estimate and the low bid there would be no problem; the 
negotiating procedure he recommended would be brought into play when 
there was a wide gap. 
Governor Daane suggested a modification of the letter that would 
neither rigidly require rejection of all bids nor specifically require 
negotiation with the low bidder or bidders. It seemed to him reasonable 
to provide a choice. Governor Maisel indicated that he saw no objection 
to a framework such as Governor Daane had suggested. Governor Brimmer 
also spoke in favor of allowing a choice, adding that in any situation 
where construction costs declined it might be possible to negotiate for 

503 
2/14/67 
-10-
a building of better quality than had originally been thought possible 
at a certain price. Governor Mitchell expressed the view that before 
bids were called for, the probable cost of the building should be 
reasonably well known. If bids substantially exceeded the estimates, 
negotiation would seem appropriate to adjust the project so it would 
come within the price. 
In further discussion of the approach to be taken in the letter, 
Governor Daane suggested that it be made clear that the choice of pro-
cedures would be subject to Board approval. He agreed with a suggestion 
by Mr. O'Connell that the emphasis be on rejection of all bids and 
calling for new ones if no bid was acceptable as submitted, leaving the 
option of negotiation as second choice. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, unanimous approval was 
given to the sending to the Federal Reserve Banks of a letter in a form 
reflecting the suggestions for changes in the draft letter that had been 
made at this meeting. 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shuter then withdrew from the meeting. 
Annual Report. There had been distributed a memorandum dated 
February 10, 1967, from Mr. Molony submitting for suggestions a draft 
of Part I of the Board's Annual Report for 1966. 
At today's meeting Governor Maisel raised questions concerning 
the relative emphasis given to certain elements of the review and indi-
cated that the draft did not correspond in some respects to his recollec-
tion of the sequence of events during the course of the year. There 

504 
2/14/67 
-10-
ensued a general discussion of various approaches that might be taken 
to describe as accurately as possible the changing monetary climate 
during the year. 
Other members of the Board indicated that they also had sugges-
tions to offer, principally of an editorial nature, and Chairman Martin 
proposed that such suggestions, as well as those of Governor Maisel, be 
provided in writing so that the staff could take them into account in 
preparing a revised draft for the Board's consideration. 
Proposed small business legislation (Item No. 3). At the meet-
ing on February 10, 1967, the Board discussed a proposed reply to a 
request from the Bureau of the Budget for the Board's views on a Small 
Business Administration draft bill that apparently was intended to 
expand existing programs of assistance to small businesses either 
directly or through the instrumentality of small business investment 
companies. Action on the reply was deferred to enable Governor Brimmer 
to work with the staff in making available to the Board certain addi-
tional information he had obtained from officials of the Small Business 
Administration. There had now been distributed a memorandum dated 
February 13, 1967, from the Division of Research and Statistics present-
ing the information to which Governor Brimmer had referred during the 
earlier discussion. 
Discussion disclosed agreement with the substance of the present 
draft of reply, although certain changes in wording were suggested. There 

505 
2/14/67 
-10-
was also agreement with a suggestion by Governor Brimmer that the staff 
memorandum, edited in certain respects, be sent to the Bureau of the 
Budget as a matter of information. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter in the form 
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 4 
is a copy of a letter sent to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City on February 9, 
1967, with further reference to certain 
interlocking relationships between The 
First National Bank of Bellevue, Bellevue, 
Nebraska, and The Southwest Bank of Omaha, 
Omaha, Nebraska. 
Attached as Item No. 5 is a copy of a letter 
sent today to the Chairman of the House Bank-
ing and Currency Committee regarding additional 
reports received under Public Law 88-593. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on behalf 
of the Board a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco (copy attached as Item 
No. 6) approving the appointment of Walter G. 
Scoville as assistant examiner. 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

506 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
2/14/67 
A D O R C a a arPICIAL correspondence 
TO THE BOARD 
February 14, 1967 
The Honorable K. A. Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Mr. Randall: 
Reference is made to your letter of February 6, 1967, 
concerning the application of Bank of Waldron, Waldron, Arkansas, 
for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal from 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
There have been no corrective programs urged upon the 
bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, 
and there are no programs that the Board would advise be 
incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank to membership 
in the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

507 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
2/14/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 14, 1967. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 11, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for: 
(1) Bank of America to purchase and hold approximately 
3,150 additional shares of Financial Corporation for 
Overseas Countries ("FCOC"), Geneva, Switzerland, at 
a cost of approximately US$806,379; and 
(2) Banca d'America e d'ltalia, Milan, Italy, to purchase 
and hold approximately 1,570 additional shares of FCOC 
at a cost of approximately US$403,193, provided such 
additional shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
fchat the investment now being approved for Bank of America, combined 
^ith other foreign loans and investments of Bank of America and 
B ank of America National Trust and Savings Association, will not 
cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guide-
lines established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

508 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
OF THE 
2/14/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 15, 1967. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your Legislative Referral Memorandum 
of January 20, 1967, requesting the views of the Board on a Small 
Business Administration draft bill entitled "Small Business Act 
Amendments of 1967". 
The Board has no objection to either Title I or 
Title II of the proposed legislation but wishes to make some general 
comments on the latter. 
It is the Board1s understanding that Title II represents 
the final stage of an over-all program for restructuring the SBIC 
industry and otherwise strengthening the SBIC program. 
The Small 
Business Administration is to be commended for its considerable 
efforts in this direction. 
In particular, the proposed increase in 
minimum capital requirements provided in section 3 should in time 
eliminate companies that are too small to operate successfully as 
investing institutions. 
The Board assumes that the maximum ratio of $3 of Government 
funds to each $1 of private funds, authorized in section 5, is intended 
to be restricted to special situations. 
If practical, it would seem 
appropriate for this intent to be indicated in the bill itself. 
It is 
the Board1s hope that steps to increase the flow of equity capital to 
small business over the near-term future will be accompanied by 
diligent pursuit of the ultimate goal of a self-supporting SBIC 
industry. 
The Board1s comments in this letter are based on the analysis 
and conclusions reached in the enclosed memorandum, which was prepared 

509 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
after discussion with representatives of the Small Business Administration 
regarding the intent of the proposed legislation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 

510 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 1 
2/14/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
'^LREsf:-* 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 9, 1967 
Mr. Geo. D. Royer, Jr., 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Federal Reserve Station, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Royer: 
This refers to your letter of January 27, 1967, and en-
closures, in connection with our previous correspondence regarding 
the possible violation of section 8 of the Clayton Act and the 
Board's Regulation L, arising from the fact that a majority of 
directors of the First National Bank of Bellevue, Bellevue, Nebraska, 
constitute a majority of the directors of the Southwest Bank of 
Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska. 
The Board appreciates your advice that 
action of the Nebraska State Supreme Court has voided the recent 
annexation of territory between Bellevue and Omaha, with the result 
that the city limits of the two are no longer contiguous. 
The Board understands from materials you furnished earlier 
that until recently, at least, there were about three miles of open 
farmland between Bellevue and Omaha, and that there was no continuous 
development between them. 
Should this situation change materially in 
the future, Bellevue and Omaha might become "adjacent" to one another, 
within the meaning of section 8(4) of the Act. 
(Compare footnote 8 
to Regulation L.) Accordingly, you may wish to review the situation 
from time to time with this in mind. 
It also appears from your letter 
that you are alert to the possibility of a fresh annexation of the 
intervening territory, which would result, of course, in making 
Bellevue and Omaha "contiguous" once more, within the meaning of 
section 8(4). 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

511 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
W A S H I N G T O N 
OF T H E 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
Item No. 5 
2/14/67 
February 14, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
With my letter to you of November 7, 1966, which was in 
response to your inquiry of August 23, 1966, regarding, among 
other things, the implementation of Public Law 88-593, there was 
enclosed a schedule listing reports in changes in control of State 
member banks and of extensions of credit secured by 25 per cent or 
more of the stock of State member banks received in the Board's 
offices since the enactment of Public Law 88-593 on September 12, 
1964. Mr. Morse of your Committee's staff has requested that he 
be provided with a list of the reports received during the period 
November 7, 1966, to December 31, 1966. In compliance with his 
request there is enclosed a list of the reports received during 
this period as well as reports received in 1967 but with 1966 dates. 
It will be noted that some of the reports on the list were made as 
of dates prior to November 7, 1966, and were not on the list 
forwarded to you on that date. Their delay in arriving at the 
Board's offices is, of course, due to the time required by the 
Reserve Banks for investigation and processing the reports after 
they are received. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

512 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
2/14/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 15, 1967 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of February 9, 1967, the Board approves 
the appointment of Walter G. Scoville as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
effective February 16, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
