PR 609 
^ev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
J u n e 15> 
1 9 7 1 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note; No changes from draft minutes. 

1465 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, June 15, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 

146C 
6/15/71 
-2-
Supporting staff of the respective 
divisions. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on May 28, by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on June 3, by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on June 4, and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas on June 10, 1971, of the rates on advances and discounts in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
»• . J ... p' - v. ' . 
I 
r: 
1 
• 
;. 
'. . : . . 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Charter New 
York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire the shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The Union 
National Bank of Troy, Troy, New York, which would be moved to Albany, 
New York, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Mid-Ohio 
Banc-Shares, Inc., Mansfield, Ohio, to acquire shares of The Farmers 
and Savings Bank, Loudonville, Ohio, and authorized the issuance of an 
°rder reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
V- ."a ' 
. 
, > ... - 
* 
.. . 
' 
- . 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Virginia 
Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, to acquire the 
shares of The American Bank of Loudoun, Loudoun County, Virginia, a 

14.7Z 
6/15/71 
-9-
proposed new bank, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Southeast 
Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, (formerly Southeast Bancorporation, 
Inc.), to acquire shares of Caladesi National Bank at Dunedin, Dunedin, 
Florida, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
Pursuant to the recommendation contained in a memorandum from 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated June 9, 1971, the 
Board appointed Griffith L. Garwood, Chief of Section, Truth in Lending, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation, as Secretary of the Advisory 
Committee on Truth in Lending to replace Tynan Smith. 
In view of a question that had arisen on which further study 
was desired, the Board deferred consideration of an application by The 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, to establish 
an Edge corporation. 
First Sebanco. The Board deferred consideration of an application 
by F irst Sebanco, Inc., Glendive, Montana, to become a bank holding 
company by acquiring shares of First Security Bank of Glendive, Glendive, 
Montana, pending further study of insurance activities that would be 
deemed permissible for bank holding companies pursuant to the Bank 
Holdi ng Company Act, as amended. 

14.7Z 
6/15/71 
-9-
H.R. 7632. The Board approved unanimously a letter to the 
Chairman of the House Banking and Currency Committee recommending 
favorably with regard to H.R. 7632, a bill to amend section 14(b) of 
the Federal Reserve Act to extend for two years the authority of the 
Federal Reserve Banks to purchase U.S. obligations direct from the 
Treasury up to a total of $5 billion at any one time. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
H.R. 5700. By letter dated June 7, 1971, Congressman Moorhead, 
a member of the House Banking and Currency Committee, had asked whether 
the Board would oppose the enactment of H.R. 5700, the Banking Reform 
Act of 1971, if a draft amendment in the nature of a substitute trans-
mitted with the letter were adopted. In a memorandum of June 9, the 
Legal Division analyzed the principal differences between the original 
bill and the Moorhead amendment and suggested positions that the Board 
might take in reply to Congressman Moorhead. 
By letter dated June 3, 1971, Congressman Widnall, also a 
member of the Banking and Currency Committee, had requested that the 
Board's staff prepare a draft to carry out the recommendations of the 
Board with respect to H.R. 5700. A draft prepared in compliance with 
the request had been submitted to the Board with a memorandum from the 
Legal Division dated June 14. 
The Board addressed itself first to the Moorhead amendment, 
and Mr. Cardon reviewed the provisions thereof which differed from 

14.7Z 
6/15/71 
-9-
H.R. 5700, including the extent to which those provisions were or were 
not in conformity with recommendations made by the Board in testifying 
on H.R. 5700. 
It was the view of the Board that it should not depart signifi-
cantly from the positions taken in the testimony on H.R. 5700, and that 
it should endorse provisions of the Moorhead bill so far as they were 
in harmony with the testimony. In a few respects, however, provisions 
of the Moorhead amendment were deemed upon reconsideration to be pre-
ferable to provisions of the original bill that the Board had supported, 
and it was agreed that the Board's reply to Mr. Moorhead should be 
phrased accordingly. In this connection, it was agreed also that the 
Board should not respond directly to the question raised by Mr. Moorhead 
whether the Board would object to enactment of the bill if the Moorhead 
amendment were adopted.> 
With respect to the request from Congressman Widnall, it was 
agreed that the draft bill submitted in response to that request should 
reflect not only the Board's recommendations included in its testimony 
on H.R. 5700 but also the positions established this morning upon 
consideration of the provisions of the Moorhead amendment. 
The positions established regarding the provisions of the 
Moorhead bill were unanimous except in two respects. First, Governor 
Robertson reiterated the minority position he had taken during the 
Board's earlier discussion of its testimony on H.R. 5700 with regard 

14.7Z 
6/15/71 
-9-
to equity participations. The prohibition against such participations 
in the Moorhead substitute would apply only to insured banks and savings 
and loan associations, thus avoiding the potentially disruptive effects 
of H.R. 5700 in terms of impact on established financial markets and 
practices with respect to convertible debentures, warrants, and other 
securities with equity features. In testimony on the introduced bill, 
the Board had opposed its provisions prohibiting equity participations, 
in their applicability to banks, on the ground that arrangements of the 
type prohibited by the bill "may provide a constructive method for 
adjusting credit charges to economic conditions." The Board's position 
now was that it adhered to its previously expressed position, although 
it found the Moorhead amendment preferable. Governor Robertson felt 
that a legislative prohibition of the type contained in the Moorhead 
amendment should be supported. 
However, in expressing opposition to the prohibition against 
equity participations in its testimony on H.R. 5700, the Board had sug-
gested as an alternative the inclusion of some percentage limitation. 
This raised the question whether, in submitting a draft bill to Congress-
man Widnall, the Board should specify a percentage limitation. Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer felt that that should be done, but the other 
members preferred not to do so. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the draft letters to 
Congressman Moorhead and Congressman Widnall that had been submitted 

14.7Z 
6/15/71 
-9-
to the Board for consideration were remanded to the staff for revision 
to reflect the positions agreed upon by the Board concerning the 
various points covered therein, with the understanding that when such 
revisions had been made in the letters, and in the draft bill requested 
by Mr. Widnall, the letters were approved for transmittal. Copies of 
the letters, in the form in which they were subsequently transmitted, 
are attached as I terns 6 and 7, respectively. 
Testimony by Governor Brimmer. There had been distributed a 
draft of testimony to be presented tomorrow by Governor Brimmer before 
the Subcommittee on International Exchange and Payments of the Joint 
Economic Committee.; The Subcommittee had asked that Governor Brimmer 
review the positive and negative effects of the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program on the U.S. balance of payments and discuss the need 
to maintain the program in the light of prospective balance of payments 
developments. The Subcommittee had also asked for whatever information 
the Board might have on the activities of U.S. commercial banks in 
moving large amounts of short-term funds internationally in late April 
and early May of this year. 
After comments by Governor Brimmer on the nature of his 
proposed statement and the inquiries made by the staff in compiling 
it", there was a discussion relating principally to the portions of the 
testimony having to do with the role of U.S. banks in the recent inter-
national movements of short-term funds. The general tone of the discussion 

14.7Z 
6/15/71 
-9-
indicated that members of the Board believed it would be advisable to 
adopt a guarded approach, to use only the information immediately 
available (mainly reports received from banks covered by the VFCR), 
and to emphasize that it would still be some time before statistical 
reports became available to measure all of the types of capital flows 
that enter into the balance of payments. 
It was understood that Governor Brimmer would review the draft 
testimony in the light of those suggestions and that the testimony 
would then be presented in a final form satisfactory to him and Chairman 
Burns. 
(Note: A copy of the statement^ as presented, has been placed 
in the Board's files.) 
Testimony by Chairman Burns. Chairman Burns had been asked to 
appear tomorrow before the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs to present the views of the Board on legislation to 
authorize Government guarantees of loans to business in emergencies. 
A draft of testimony had been distributed, in which an effort had been 
made to adhere closely to language already on record. 
While the draft testimony was regarded as generally satisfactory, 
some questions were raised for discussion, including questions on the 
Section dealing with the possibility of the Federal Reserve System's 
acting as a lender of last resort to nonfinancial enterprises as well 
. 
* 
" 
a s financial institutions. 

14.7Z 
6/15/71 
-9-
It was understood that the Chairman would review the proposed 
testimony in the light of the questions that had been discussed, and 
that the testimony would then be presented in a final form satisfactory 
to him. (Note: A copy of the testimony, as presented, has been placed 
in the Board's files.) 
Question of loan to Lockheed. The Deputy Under Secretary of 
the Treasury for Monetary Affairs had inquired regarding the question 
whether the Federal Reserve might properly make a loan to Lockheed 
Aircraft Corporation. A draft of reply, including alternative choices 
of language at one point, had been distributed. 
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to a letter in 
the form attached as Item No. 8, with the understanding that transmittal 
of the letter would be withheld until after Chairman Burns had testified 
before the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
tomorrow. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance, and Governor Daane made a report on the Basle meeting held 
over the past weekend. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened at 3:00 p.m. with all 
members of the Board present and the following staff: 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 

14.7Z 
6/15/71 
- 9 -
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions. 
ADAPSO case. The Comptroller of the Currency had requested the 
use of Leonard Fernelius, an officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis, as a witness in connection with litigation that involved 
an effort by the Association of Data Processing Service Organizations, 
Inc., to enjoin the Comptroller from authorizing national banks to 
perform data processing services for correspondent banks and for other 
bank customers, and to enjoin a specific national bank from performing 
such services. 
It was understood that the testimony of Mr. Fernelius 
j i 
would be carefully limited to the following areas: 
(1) the importance 
a viable data processing capability within the commercial banking 
industry to the functioning of the payments system and the check clear-
ing process today and in the future; and (2) the role of banks having 
an electronic data processing capability in supplying automated services 

14.7Z 
6/15/71 
- 9 -
to correspondent banks, particularly those located in remote or sparsely 
populated areas. 
In discussion of the request, members of the Board expressed 
the view that an effort should be made to assure that testimony by 
Mr. Fernelius would be limited to the areas mentioned and to assure 
that his presence as a witness, with identification of his position, 
was not taken to mean that the Federal Reserve position on the merits 
of the case favored the defendants. 
Subject to this understanding, it was understood that the 
General Counsel would take appropriate steps on behalf of the Board 
to arrange for the appearance of Mr. Fernelius as a witness for the 
Purpose indicated. 
Bank Holding Company Act: 
foreign bank holding companies and 
•foreign activities of domestic holding companies. Pursuant to previous 
discussion, there had been distributed additional staff materials for 
use in connection with consideration of a notice of proposed rule making 
to implement sections 4(c)(9) and 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, as amended, relating, respectively, to activities in the United 
Stat es of foreign bank holding companies and foreign activities of 
domestic bank holding companies. Those materials included a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated June 11, 1971, with which was submitted 
a revised draft of notice to be published for comment. 

14.7Z 
6/15/71 
- 9 -
The proposed regulatory language with respect to section 4(c)(13) 
was accepted as submitted. 
The draft regulatory language with respect to section 4(c)(9), 
as proposed by the Legal Division, would, among other things, exempt 
from the prohibitions of section 4 of the Act noncontrolling investments 
in any foreign chartered foreign-based company so long as more than 50 
Per cent of that company's consolidated assets and revenues are and 
continue to be located and derived outside the United States and so 
r i) -ax a r.c .r-ci'.n -J. *? V;!-. luSv 
-a 
long as that company does not engage in the business of underwriting, 
selling, or distributing securities in the United States. 
(Application 
could be made by foreign bank holding companies for case-by-case deter-
minations regarding possible further exemptions.) 
Governor Robertson proposed deleting the foregoing paragraph 
from the notice of proposed rule making. After discussion, however, it 
Was agreed to retain the paragraph, but with the figure changed from 50 
Per cent to 80 per cent. 
Certain further changes of a modest nature in the proposed 
notice were then discussed and agreed upon, after which the Board 
authorized the publication for comment of a notice of proposed rule 
making in a form that would reflect the modifications that had been 
accepted. 
It was agreed that a period of 30 days for the receipt of 
comments should be provided. Attached as Item No. 9 is a copy of the 
Press release issued in this regard. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 
6/15/71 
UNITED STATES 6l? AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS Ot THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON,- D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION, 
1 
New York, New YorkJ 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 100 per cent 
' 
°f the voting shares (less directors' qualifying ' 
shares) of a new national bank into which will 
' 
he merged The Union National Bank of Troy, Troy, 
1 
New York. 
* 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter New York Corporation, 
New York, New York ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent 
o f the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of a new 
national bank ("Albany Bank") into which will be merged The Union 
^tional Bank of Troy, Troy, New York ("Troy Bank"). The successor 
hank would be headquartered in Albany, with the existing offices 
Troy Bank serving as branches thereof. 

1478 
•2 
/ 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Acting Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Pursuant to provisions of New York Banking Law, the 
New York State Banking Board, acting upon the recommendation of 
the New York Superintendent of Banks, approved an application with 
respect to the pending proposal. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on April 29, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8082), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
a n d all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
e^£ect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
Q n d managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
^ e banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization and the 
^ird largest multi-bank holding company in the State, has eight 
8ubSidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $4.5 billion, representing 

1479 
«3-
* i 
per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to 
date.) Applicant '3 position in relation to the State's, other banking 
organizations would be unchanged as a result of the consummation of 
the proposal herein. 
Troy Bank ($65.3 million deposits), the smaller of 
two banks headquartered in Troy, is the ninth largest of the 36 
hanks located in New York's Fourth Banking District. Upon con-
summation of the proposal herein, Albany Bank would assume Troy 
bank's present position as the District's ninth ranking banking 
organization, and it would become the fourth largest of the six 
hanks headquartered in the city of Albany. The three larger Albany 
hanks hold, respectively, $743 million, $704 million, and $181 
Million in deposits, and each is a viable and aggressive competitor 
the Albany banking market. Although Applicant has one sub-
sidiary bank in the Fourth Banking District, neither it nor any 
Applicant's other subsidiaries compete to any significant 
e*tent in the projected service area of Albany Bank; moreover, 
hased on the facts of record, the development of meaningful com-
petition appears remote. The overall effect of the proposal should 
to promote competition by opening up the City of Troy to 
ht 
ranching since home office protection would be removed, and by 
Producing an established banking organization into the Albany 

1480 
-4-
banking market, an area which is dominated by the two largest banks. 
It does not appear that existing competition would be eliminated, 
significant potential competition foreclosed, by consummation 
of Applicants proposal, or that there would be undue adverse effects 
any bank in the area involved. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Albany Bank are regarded as 
consistent with approval of the application. The major banking needs 
o f the Albany area are presently being met by existing institutions. 
introduction of an alternative source of large banking services 
8hould benefit the convenience and needs of the area's residents, 
and thus, this factor lends some weight in favor of approval of the 
aPPlication. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
aPproved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consum-
^ted ( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
tlUs Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
and provided further that (c) Albany Bank shall be opened 
business not later than six months after the date of this Order. 

-5-
The time periods described in (b) and (c) above may be extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 15, 1971, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 2 1 4 8 2 
6/15/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.' C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MID-OHIO BANC-SHARES, INC., 
Mansfield, Ohio, 
approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Farmers and Savings Bank, Loudonville, 
°hio, Loudonville, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(J)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Mid-Ohio Banc-Shaces, Inc., 
Mansfield, Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
o f the voting shares of The Farmers and Savings Bank, Loudonville, Ohio, 
L°ndonville, Ohio ("Farmers Bank"). 

1483 
-2 »• 
As required by sectibn 3(b) bf the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 
°f Banks of the State of Ohio and requested his views and recommenda-
tion. The Superintendent did not object to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on April 22, 1971 (36 Federal Register 7622), pro-
dding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
th 
6 factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
Of *.L 
ne proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
to 
s°urces and future prospects of Applicant and the banks concerned, 
t-h 
e convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
8ucu 
11 consideration the Board finds that: 
Applicant, one of the smallest bank holding companies in 
°hi0 » controls two banks with deposits of approximately $64 million, 
esenting less than .3 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
in th 
n e State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to 
e c t holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
t 

1481 
-4-
Board through April 30, 1971.) The acquisition of Farmers Bank, with 
deposits of approximately $11 million, would not increase significantly 
Applicant's share of area deposits, nor would it change its present 
ranking among banking organizations in the State. 
Farmers Bank operates its main office in Loudonville and a 
branch approximately five miles northwest in the town of Perrysville, 
both of which are located in Ashland County. There are 13 banking 
organizations serving the two-county area of Richland and Ashland 
Counties, the largest of which holds approximately 35 per cent of total 
deposits. Applicant's lead bank in Mansfield, the second largest bank-
ing 
organization, controls approximately 18 per cent of the two-county 
total deposits and Farmers Bank, as the ninth largest, holds about 
^ Per cent of such deposits. 
The nearest offices of Applicant's subsidiaries and Farmers 
®ank are located nine miles apart. The areas they serve overlap slightly, 
^ut the two offices are separated by a lake and a State park. The pro-
Posed acquisition would eliminate only an insignificant amount of present 
c°topetition between these offices and none between Applicant's other 
8ubsidiary and Farmers Bank. It appears that competing banks would 
n°t be adversely affected by consummation of the proposal and that no 
Substantial amount of potential competition would be eliminated because 
of 
4 restrictions placed on branching by State laws and inasmuch as 
Applicant is not likely to enter this area through de novo means. 

1485 
f 
Based upon the foregoing &nd the record before it, the 
Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
have only a slightly adverse effect on competition in the relevant 
area, which would be outweighed in the public interest. The banking 
factors as regards Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Farmers Bank are 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. Con-
siderations relating to the convenience and needs of the area involved 
lend some weight toward approval. Although the more important banking 
needs of the area are being served at the present time, Applicant plans 
establish trust and data processing services at Farmers Bank and to 
enable it to provide larger agricultural loans. These innovations and 
improvements in Bank's services would serve the convenience and needs 
o f the communities and outweigh the slightly adverse effect consummation 
o f the proposal would have on existing competition. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, 
and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
dded that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or 
(k) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 

I 
I 
• 
i486 
-5-
Period is extended for gdod cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority* 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 15, 1971i 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson* 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
a 
(SEAL) 
M 
r 
s 
m 
t 
m 
?m. 
SSSS 
1 1 1 : \>».StA 
>t'i,-' 
' 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Mh> 
» 
I 

Item No « 
6/15/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
ii 
i-
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
V i r g i n i a 
c o m m o n w e a l t h 
b a n k s h a r e s , 
i n c . , 
Richmond, Virginia, 
f°r approval of acquisition of 100 per 
jjent of the voting shares of The American 
ank of Loudoun, Loudoun County, Virginia, 
a Proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S,C* 
1 8 4 2 (a) (3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(19 
4 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Virginia Commonwealth Bank-
share3, Inc., Richmond, Virginia ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
hiding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
l Q0 per cent of the voting shares of The American Bank of Loudoun, 
County, Virginia 
("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
*-cen notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 

1488 
-4-
°f Banking for the State of Virginia and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
^Plication. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
^ e Federal Register on April 29, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8083), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
a n d views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
9 1 1 those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
t h e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant 
Q n d the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
^unities t o b e served. Upon such consideration, the Board 
fir*s that: 
Applicant is the fourth largest banking organization 
and th 
ne second largest bank holding company in Virginia, controlling 
^ banks with aggregate deposits of $582.1 million. This represents 
^Proximately 8 per cent of total banking deposits in the State. 
(All 
banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
Id i 
n6 company acquisitions and formations approved by the Board 
r°u8h April 30, 1971.) Since Bank is a proposed new bank, con-
n o f the proposal would not increase concentration in any 
^ k e t . 

Bank will be located in Loudoun County at the Dulles 
international Airport complex, which is presently served by a 
branch of a $704 million Richmond bank. None of Applicant's 
Present offices are located in Loudoun County and under Virginia 
no present banking subsidiary of Applicant may establish a 
branch in Bank's primary service area. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an 
Averse effect on competition in any relevant area and will 
a procompetitive effect through the introduction of an 
ac*ditionai banking alternative at the Dulles Airport complex. 
Th 
0 hanking factors, as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, 
arid 
Bank, and considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
of t h ne communities to be served, are regarded as consistent with 
aPProVal of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Pro Posed transaction would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
ft 
ndings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
^Proved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
ated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
o
f 
t h i 
lls Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this 0tv, 
^raer; and provided further that (c) The American Bank of 

1490 
Loudoiin, Loudoun Counfcy, Virginia shall be opened for business 
Rot later than six months after the date of this Order* The time 
Periods described in (b) and (c) above may be extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 15, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A* Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1491 
Item No« 4 
6/15/71 
UNITED StATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION, 
Miami, Florida, 
approval of acquisition of 
8 0 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Caladesi National Bank 
at Dunedin, Dunedin, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
s e cti 0 n 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
lQ42(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222,3(a)), an application by Southeast Banking Corporation 
(f ormerly Southeast Bancorporation, Inc.), Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), 
registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Qaladesi National Bank at Dunedin, Dunedin, Florida ("Caladesi Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
tit:ten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the 
Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
offers no objection to approval of the application. 

1432 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 29, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8082), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
fche factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
fche banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in 
Florida. 
controls 12 banks with aggregate deposits of approximately 
$1.03 billion, representing 7.4 per cent of commercial bank deposits 
^ the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and 
reflect holding company acquisitions approved through May 31, 1971.) 
UPon acquisition of Caladesi Bank ($17 million of deposits), 
applicant's share of State-wide deposits would increase by only 
percentage points. 
Caladesi Bank is the smaller of two banks in Dunedin 
Pinellas County); it has only about one-third as many deposits 
• 
i.' • 
a s the larger bank. Other banks in the area include seven banks 

1493 
• 
' ! 
» 
• 
in Clearwater, fouif iri Latgo, and one in Safety Harbor* Caladesi 
Bank controls 4.2 per cent of market deposits, and ranks seventh 
in size among these 14 banking organizations. 
No existing competition would be eliminated between 
Caladesi Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiary banks, the nearest 
°f which to Dunedin is in Tampa, about 34 mile s away. Nor is it 
likely that significant competition between such banks would develop 
in the future in view of, among other things, the distances involved, 
the number of intervening banks, and the prohibition against branch 
banking in Florida. It appears that a principal effect of the 
Proposal is that Caladesi Bank will be able to compete more 
e*fectively with the larger banks located in its market. Therefore, 
fche Board concludes that consummation of the proposal would not have 
adverse effects on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial condition, managements, and prospects of 
APPlicant. 
its subsidiary banks, and Caladesi Bank are regarded 
a s generally satisfactory and consistent with approval of the 
aPPlicatio 
n. The banking needs of the area involved are being 
adequately met. However, with Applicant's assistance as proposed, 
caladesi Bank would become a convenient, alternative source of trust 
a n d international services and would be able to handle larger local 
t e ai estate financing needs. Therefore, considerations regarding 
convenience and needs of the communities involved are consistent 
approval of the application*' On the basis of all the facts of 

i 
1491 
- & 
' i 
I 
record, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
i 
Would be iri the public interest and that, therefore, the application 
should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons summarized above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 15, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A.. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL] 
> 

1495 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 5 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 2 0 5 5 1 
6/15/71 
June 15, 1971 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D.C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
As you requested, I am writing to present the Board's views 
°n H.R. 7632, a bill to amend section 14(b) of the Federal Reserve Act, 
as amended, to extend for two years the authority of Federal Reserve 
fcanks to purchase United States obligations directly from the Treasury. 
The Board favors enactment of H.R. 7632 because we believe the authority, 
uhich would be extended through June 30, 1973, furnishes a desirable 
degree of protection to the Treasury against inevitable uncertainties 
in estimates of receipts and expenditures and in borrowing operations. 
Normally, Federal Reserve purchases of Government securities 
a^e made in the open market, and the $5 billion direct-purchase author-
ity of section 14(b) has been used sparingly since the original 
authorization by Congress in 1942. Nevertheless, the continuing existence 
the authority permits more economical cash and debt management and 
assures the availability of an immediate source of funds in the event 
o f a national emergency. Furthermore, timely use of the authority— 
for example, during periods immediately preceding tax payment dates— 
C an avoid the creation of unnecessary financial strains that might 
°ccur if the Treasury were required to draw heavily on its accounts 
a t such times. 
Accordingly, the Board recommends that Congress promptly 
e^act 1I.R. 7632. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 

1496 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 ! 
Item No. 6 
6/15/71 
June 15, 1971 
The Honorable William S. Moorhead 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Moorhead: 
I am writing in reply to your letter to me dated June 7, 1971. 
You have asked for the views of the Board on a suggestion that 
administrative action would be preferable to new legislation to 
deal with the problem of insider loans in banks and other deposi-
tary institutions. You have also asked for comment generally on 
a draft amendment transmitted with your letter as a possible sub-
stitute for the text of H.R. 5700 as introduced. 
In regard to the problem of insider loans, it may be observed 
that serious practical difficulties and rigidities might attend 
a statutory definition of what relationships between a bank and 
a potential borrower would justify placing loans to such a 
borrower in a special category. In this area as well as in the 
latter of eligibility of businessmen to serve on the boards of 
depositary institutions, it is important not to inhibit legitimate 
and constructive relationships. 
Since the Board is not prepared at this time to make a specific 
legislative recommendation, but does regard the problem as one 
which deserves attention, your suggestion appears to have merit, 
and would be particularly helpful if it were made part of the 
legislative history by incorporation in the committee report. 
Let me turn now to the provisions of the draft submitted with your 
letter. The Board regards this draft as a substantial improvement 
in many respects over H.R. 5700 as introduced, but has serious 
reservations about some of its provisions. 
Title I of your draft is substantially similar to a draft amendment 
to H.R. 5700 which the Board has already proposed. A technical 
error has been discovered in that draft, and for your information 
1 am enclosing a copy of your draft marked to show the changes which 
°ur Legal Division feels are necessary to correct this error and to 
implement the affirmative recommendations made below. 

1497 
The Honorable William S. Moorhead 
-2-
Your draft would substitute, as a condition for the allowance of 
interlocks, a minimum distance of 15 miles between the banking 
offices for the requirement in the Board's proposal that they not 
be located in the same or any adjoining city, town or village. 
Your draft would allow an additional three-year grace period, 
under certain conditions, for mutual thrift institutions to 
terminate interlocking relationships, and would allow 15 months 
in all cases for the termination of interlocks which become 
unlawful as a result of a change of circumstances, as for example 
the opening of a competing office within less than the 15-mile 
radius. 
While the Board has favored the use of the "city, town or village" 
rule because of the precedent established in the Clayton Act, it 
does not regard the difference between that rule and your formula-
tion to be so substantial as to warrant opposition to your proposal. 
The Board has no objection to the other changes which you propose 
in Title I. 
The provisions of Title II of your draft relating to trust department 
holdings and disclosures appear to meet some of the objections which 
I expressed on behalf of the Board in my testimony on the parallel 
Provisions of II.R. 5700 as introduced. As I indicated at that time, 
the Board recommends against enactment of restrictions such as the 
10 per cent limit provided in your proposed section 22, although the 
disruptive effects of such a limit would be lessened by applying the 
limit only to future purchases, as your draft would do. 
Your draft would amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to impose 
all fiduciaries having investment management authority over 5 per 
cent or more of any given issue of equity securities reporting 
requirements similar to those now applying to beneficial owners of 
10 per cent or more. This approach meets the objection of the Board 
that bank trust departments should not be placed at a disadvantage 
relative to other fiduciaries, and would substantially reduce the 
administrative burdens imposed by the introduced bill. We suggest, 
however, that a requirement of public reports on holdings of companies 
S o small that 5 per cent of their stock would be worth less than 
$1,000,000 raises the issue of personal privacy as well as that of 
whether the benefits to be obtained are worth the administrative and 
supervisory costs, and the Board therefore suggests that your proposal 
b e modified to exempt holdings valued at less than $1,000,000. 

148 
The Honorable William S. Moorhead 
-3-
The provisions of your draft relating to the voting of stock of a 
bank held by the bank itself as a fiduciary would expand the appli-
cability of present law relating to the voting of national bank 
stock in the election of directors to cover all voting (whether 
or not for directors) and all insured banks. This is consistent 
with the recommendations of the Board. 
Title III of your draft would require that all loans by insured 
banks for the purchase of stock of Federally insured banks or 
savings and loan associations be fully amortized and mature within 
5 years, except that with the written approval of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation the term could be for 10 years, and could be 
extended for five additional years. Loans by a bank to its own 
officers or directors or members of their families for the purchase 
of stock of any other bank would be absolutely prohibited. 
While the Board approves the general principle that substantial 
loans for the purchase of bank stock should be scrutinized with 
Particular care as to soundness and certainly should not be made 
preferential terms, we seriously question the wisdom of a stat-
utory amortization requirement. We suggest that the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation be given specific authority to regulate loans 
secured by, or to provide for the purchase of, bank stock, with a 
view to ensuring that loans made to finance the purchase of bank 
stock meet sound banking standards and are not used as devices to 
Promote the interest of speculators or the lending bank to the 
detriment of the purchased banks. We are opposed, however, to an 
outright prohibition on loans to directors and officers for the 
Purchase of stock of other banks. Such loans are only a special 
case of the general problem addressed by the suggestion in your 
letter relating to "insider loans", and our response above seems 
equally applicable here. 
Title IV of your draft would prohibit insured banks and savings and 
loan associations from making any loan the interest or other return 
uPon which is variable according to the receipts or income from any 
Property or enterprise. 
Its scope is thus much narrower than the 
corresponding provisions of H.R. 5700 as introduced, and the poten-
t i a l l y disruptive effects of that bill in terms of its impact on 
established financial markets and practices with respect to convert-
ible securities, warrants, and the like would therefore be avoided. 

1199 
The Honorable William S. Moorhead 
-4-
In my testimony on H.R. 5700, I noted that a return related to 
"the income from any property or enterprise . . . may provide a 
constructive method for adjusting credit charges to changing 
economic conditions." As we interpret your proposal, it would 
allow adjustments based on changes in interest rates, prices, or 
other economic indicia. The only prohibition would be against 
a return based on the receipts or income of a particular property 
enterprise. The Board does not favor such a prohibition but, 
as noted in our testimony, "the Congress may deem it prudent to 
limit the aggregate of loans with such provisions to a specified 
Percentage of a bank's total assets or its capital and surplus." 
Title V of your draft, relating to brokered deposits, is in accord 
•>twith our previous testimony on this subject, and the Board favors 
its enactment. 
f
m
t
h 
best regards, 
Sincerely yours, 
i')':• 
Vi 
Arthur F. Burns 
Encloj 
• sure 
i'.M 'J - < 
- 
, 7 V 
% Jp % . I , 

1500 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
June 15, 1971 
Item No. 7 
6/15/71 
The Honorable William B. Widnall 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
^ear M r . Widnall: 
1 a m writing in reply to your letter of June 3, 1971, in which you request 
a draft amendment to carry out all of the Board's recommendations with 
Aspect to H. R. 5700. Enclosed is a draft amendment which our Legal 
division has prepared in accordance with this request. 
Title I of the amendment is the s a m e in substance as the draft amendment 
1 sent you with m y letter of M a y 21, except that it provides an additional 
three-year grace period under certain circumstances for mutual savings 
institutions to terminate interlocks, and it provides a 15-month grace 
^riod for all institutions when an interlock becomes unlawful as a result 
of a change of circumstances. The latter has reference to factual rather 
than legal changes, as for example the opening of an office within the same 
city. or the cessation of an affiliation. A technical error in the definition 
of "affiliate" as it appeared in the previous draft has also been corrected. 
Title H prohibits a bank from purchasing, in a fiduciary capacity, stock 
of itself or an affiliate, but does not require it to reject or sell such 
s*0ck forming part of an estate or trust committed to it for administration. 
T h e provisions of this title relating to the voting of stock of a bank held 
by the bank itself as a fiduciary would expand the applicability of the 
Resent rule relating to the voting of national bank stock in the election 
of directors to cover all voting (whether or not for directors) and all 
lnsured banks. 
Title II would also a m e n d section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 
! 9 34 to impose certain reporting requirements on all persons having 
V e s t m e n t management authority over 5 per cent or m o r e of any issue of 
Equity securities if the value of those securities held by that person 
d e e d e d $1, 000, 000. 

1501 
The Honorable William B. Widnall 
-2-
Title III confers on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation authority 
t o regulate loans for the purchase of bank stock to ensure, as suggested in 
° ur testimony, "that such loans meet sound banking standards and are not 
used to promote the interests of speculators or the lending bank to the 
detriment of the purchased banks. " 
Title I V prohibits brokered deposits, and Title V sets out the effective 
^ates. The interlock provisions would take effect on the first day of the 
*°urth calendar year after enactment. The reporting requirements as to 
stock under investment management and the restrictions on voting bank 
st°ck held by the bank itself would be effective on July 1 of the first 
calendar year beginning after enactment. The prohibitions on brokered 
^eposits and on purchase by a bank in a fiduciary capacity of its own or 
filiated stock would take effect on the first day of the third month after 
e n actment. 
y 
°u will note that in the draft enclosed herewith, there are no provisions 
plating to loans to directors, officers, or others having ties to the lending 
Institution. W e feel that if the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 
o were amended to single out this type of lending as an unsafe or 
U nsound practice, the Act might be weakened as to other abuses not so 
^PecifiecL Moreover, in most instances, a statutory presumption that 
given loan is unsafe or unsound might have the s a m e practical effect 
outright prohibition, even though the institution would have a legal 
8ht to bring in evidence to rebut the presumption. 
believe, however, that it would be helpful to include in the committee 
P°rt on this legislation a statement to the effect that the agencies 
or
 C e r n e d should issue, as interpretations of "unsafe or unsound acts 
^ Practices" under the Supervisory Act, guidelines with respect to 
th C U r n s ^ a n c e s a n d procedures relating to insider loans. W e believe 
at such a statement would strengthen the hand of the supervisory 
th n c i e s whil e running less risk of producing undesirable side effects 
a n a direct amendment of the 1966 Act. 
best regards, 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
^ o s u r e 

i 5 t r 
Ay 
B
p
/ 
g S p k V 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
6/15/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CnRRESPCNDENCC 
TD THE DOARD 
June 16, 1971 
Mr. Bruce K„ MacLaury 
Deputy Under Secretary for 
Monetary Affairs 
Department of the Treasury 
Washington, Dc Cc 
Dear Mr, MacLaury: 
This letter is in response to your inquiry regarding the 
question whether a Federal Reserve Bank might properly make a loan 
to Lockheed Aircraft Corporation. Our staff has examined the matter 
and wa have reached the following conclusions: 
The only provision of existing law under which a Federal 
Reserve Bank might make or arrange for a loan to Lockheed is 
Paragraph 3 of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 USC Secc 
343). The language of that paragraph is quoted for your information: 
"30 
Discounts for individuals, partnerships, and corporations 
"In unusual and exigent circumstances, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, by the affirmative 
vote of not less than five members, may authorize any 
Federal reserve bank, during such periods as the said board 
may determine, at rates established in accordance with the 
provisions of section 14, subdivision (d), of this Act, to 
discount for any individual, partnership, or corporation, 
notes, drafts, and bills of exchange of the kinds and 
maturities made eligible for discount for member banks 
under other provisions of this Act when such notes, drafts, 
and bills of exchange are indorsed or otherwise secured to 
the satisfaction of the Federal Reserve bank: 
Provided, 
That before discounting any such note, draft, or bill of 
exchange for an individual or a partnership or corporation 
the Federal reserve bank shall obtain evidence that such 
individual, partnership, or corporation is unable to secure 
adequate credit accommodations from other banking institu-
tions. All such discounts for individuals, partnerships, 

1503 
Mr6 Bruce K0 MacLaury 
-2-
or corporations shall be subject to such limitations, 
restrictions, and regulations as the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System may prescribe,,11 
The purpose of this provision of law, which was enacted in 
1932, was to permit Federal Reserve Banks to make short-term loans to 
individuals, partnerships, or corporations that were creditworthy but 
that were unable to secure adequate credit accommodations because of 
unfavorable conditions within the financial system. All of the loans 
under this provision were made between 1932 and 1936, totaling 123 in 
number and about $le5 million in amount„ 
You will note that notes, drafts, and bills of exchange dis-
counted under this paragraph must be of the kinds and maturities made 
eligible for discount for member banks under other provisions of the 
Federal Reserve Act0 
This language means, among other things, that 
the paper may not have a maturity of more than 90 days at the time of 
discount. 
In the light of these restrictions in the law and the back-
ground as to the intent of the law, and particularly in view of the 
fact that it appears that Lockheed will have a continuing need for 
funds over a considerable period of time, stretching into a matter 
years rather than months, the Board believes that it would not be 
appropriate in these circumstances to invoke paragraph 3, section 13 
the Federal Reserve Act to authorize a Federal Reserve Bank to 
extend credit to Lockheed Aircraft Corporation. 
.. 
. 
: 
ilor. h 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
S
i r* 
-VMi'df'; 
it 
'.a 

^ M ^ i p f S 
S i 
H i 
•Sr^t--' 
1501 
immediate release 
Item No. 9 
6/15/71 
June 16, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
Proposed regulatory language to implement two provisions of the 1970 
amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act that relate to nonbanking 
activities and interests in the United States of foreign bank holding 
c°mpanics and to foreign acquisitions of domestic bank holding com-
panies. 
Comments on the proposals, which would implement sections 
and 4(c)13 of the Act, should be submitted to the Board no later 
t h an j ui y 23. 
These sections permit bank holding companies to make acqui-
8itions of nonbanking interests if the Board determines that, under the 
Circumstances and subject to appropriate conditions, such acquisitions 
not be substantially at variance with the purposes of the Act and 
v?°uUl 
of 
he in the public interest. Section 4(c)9 pertains to acquisitions 
companies that do some business in the United States by foreign bank 
M d i , 
th 
companies that conduct the greater part of their business outside 
0 United States. Section 4(c)13 pertains to foreign acquisitions by 
11108tic bank holding companies, 
The Board's proposal to implement section 4(c)9 would, with 
l n exceptions, permit a foreign bank holding company that does the 
fctent- „ 
L Gr part of its business outside the United States to: 

b 
Engage directly in nonbanking activities outside the 
Unito.d States. 
2. Engage directly in nonbanking activities in the United 
St f 
a t° S t h a t a r e m e r ely incidental to its activities outside the United 
States, 
3. Acquire companies whose domestic business is merely 
C e n t a l to their international or foreign business, 
t. Acquire noncontrolling interests in foreign companies 
ao less than 20 per cent of their business in the United States. 
Under the proposal to implement section 4(c)13, a domestic 
9 U k folding company would be permitted to acquire, with the Board's 
pproval. shares of any company in which an Edge Act corporation 
invest• The Edge Act, enacted by Congress in 1919, authorizes 
the 
to charter corporations engaged in foreign banking and other 
- Unancial operations and to regulate the activities of such 
C°rPoi:qM 
-ens. Under this proposal the Board would retain authority to 
nditions regarding the operations of foreign subsidiaries of 
. ° b a n k h o I ding companies similar to those conditions that it has 
^y imposed regarding the operations of foreign subsidiaries of 
Act 
c corporations. 
Copies of the proposals arc attached. 
-0-

1506 
• 
I ... 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 222] 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanklng Activities and Interests 
By Act of Congress approved December 31, 1970 (Public Law 
n-607) 
the Bank Holding Company Act v;as expanded to cover companies 
tl|at control only one bank. In conjunction with that expansion 
C°ngresa amended section 4(c)(9) and added section 4(c)(13) of 
that Act to authorize the Board to exempt activities and investments 
foreign bank holding companies and foreign investments of domestic 
i ' ' ' '' ill 
bauI' folding companies "if the Board by regulation or order determines 
t^at> under the circumstances and subject to the conditions set forth 
the regulation or order, the exemption would not be substantially 
£11 varlance with the purposes of this Act and would be in the public 
lntereot," 
The Board proposes to add a new paragraph (f) to section 
of Regulation Y to implement its authority under section 4(c)(9). 
Und 
G r the proposal a foreign-based bank holding company could (!) engage 
in nonbanklng activities outside the United States, (2) enga ge 
dir 
Gctly in nonbanklng activities in the United States that arc merely 
in 
Gntal to its activities outside the United States, (3) invest 
s that do no business in the United States except, as 

an incident to their international or foreign business, and (4) own 
noncontrolling interests in foreign companies more than 80 per cent 
°f vjhose consolidated assets and revenues are located and derived 
0utside the United States, other than companies engaged in the busi-
e s of underwriting, selling or distributing securities in the United 
q« ates, A foreign-based bank holding company may seek the Board's 
4, 
, 
^termination whether other activities or investments not enumerated 
the Regulation might, under the circumstances of a particular 
application and subject to appropriate conditions, be eligible for 
GXGmPtion under the standards prescribed in section 4(c)(9). 
This proposal reflects the Board's view that the purposes 
the Act can be achieved without undue interference with foreign 
inking operations in other countries that are likely to have only 
^idental effects in the United States. The Board considers it 
nHkc»ly that the foreign banking activities that it proposes to 
*emPt will have adverse consequences in the United States of the 
tv 
e that Congress intended to prevent through section 4 of the Act. 
The Board also proposes to add a new paragraph (g) to 
1 Qn 222.4 
of Regulation Y to implement its authority under 
on 4(c)(13). Under this proposal a domestic bank holding company 
c°uld > with prior consent of the Board, invest in any company in which 
Ed Be Act corporation may invest. The procedures under which the 
Ho-i 
will grant its consent would be the same as those set forth 
tti j »i 
ll«8 of Regulation K. The Board believes that it is both 

c°nsigtent with the "purposes of the Act and in the public interest that 
the foreign operations of domestic bank holding companies be subject 
to the Board's surveillance in the same manner as the foreign operations 
1 member banks and Edge corporations. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
arKuments. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
p 
Qcretnry, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
' c» 20551, to be received not later than July 23, 1971. Such material 
^ U be made available for inspection and copying upon request, except 
Provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Regarding Availability 
o f information. 
The proposed new paragraphs of Regulation Y read as follows: 
^22.4 Nonbanking acti vities and interests, 
* 
* 
* 
:k 
* 
(f) foreign bank holding companies. 
(1) A bank holding 
^Pany, organized under the laws of a foreign country, more than half 
of 
l09e consolidated assets and revenues are located and derived 
°utsl 1 the United States may: 
(i) engage in direct activities of any kind outside the 
States, 
(ii) engage in direct activities in the United States that 
lt^cid ental to its activities outside the United States, 

(iii) own .or control voting shares of any company (other than 
a bank holding company) that is not engaged, directly or indirectly, 
4n any activities in the United States except as shall be incidental 
C o the international or foreign business of such company, and 
(iv) own or control voting shares of any company organized 
^nder the laws of a foreign country (other than a bank holding company) 
\A) more than 80 per cent of such company's consolidated assets and 
Avenues are located and derived outside the United States, (B) such 
c°mpany is not a subsidiary of such bank holding company, and (C) such 
c°^Pany doe3 not engage in the business of underwriting, selling, or 
distributing securities in the United States. 
(?) A bank holding company, organized under the laws of a 
Gi£n country, that is of the opinion that other activities or 
cstnients may, in particular circumstances, meet the conditions 
for n 
r'n exemption under section 4(c)(9) of the Act may apply to the 
tor such a determination by submitting to the Reserve Bank of 
the ri •{ 
latrict in which its banking operations in the United States 
Principally conducted a letter setting forth the basis for that 
°Plnton. 
(3) A bank holding company shall inform the Board through 
8ueh n 
x<-serve Bank within 30 days after the close of each quarter 
Mth 
sPcct to the acquisition during that quarter pursuant to 
*0mPtion under this paragraph (f) of voting shares of any 
that do any business whatsoever in the United States, 

1510 
J-
Including the following information concerning any company whose voting 
shares it; acquired for the first time (unless previously furnished): 
(1) Recent balance sheet and income statement, (2) brief descriptions 
the company's business (including full information concerning any 
bu8iness transacted in the United States) and the shares acquired, 
lists of directors and principal officers (with address and prin-
cipal business affiliation of each) and of all shareholders (known to 
issuing company) holding 10 per cent or more of any class of the 
Corflpany'3 voting shares (and the amount held by each). 
(G) Foreign activities of domestic bank holding^qrn^nies-. 
hank holding company may own or control voting shares of any 
Cncr'Pany in which a company organized under section 25(a) of the 
Gcleral Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611-631) may invest, provided thai-
it 
acfluires ownership or control of such shares with prior consent 
of *.« 
Board in accordance with the procedures of § 211,8 of this 
C aPt G r (§ 211.8 of Regulation K). A bank holding company shall 
°mPly with such conditions as the Board may prescribe with respect 
t0.any such acquisition. It shall also comply with the conditions 
in R 9-, 
" 4 U . 8 of this chapter regarding disposition of shares so 
^ired and shall report on any acquisition or disposition of shares 
Hlrv 
tllGrein provided. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 15, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
( S E a L ) 
