MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Federal Advisory Council 
May 5, 1972 

1208 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room of the 
Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C., at 10:30 a.m. on Friday, 
May 5, 1972. 
PRESENT: 
M r . Burns, Chairman 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
M r . Mitchell 
M r . Br immer 
M r . Holland, Executive Director 
M r . Smith, Secretary 
M r . Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
M r s . Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. English, Rockefeller, Dorrance, 
Fangboner, Barr, Bassett, Freeman, 
M o r e y , Lind, Miller, Bond, and Clausen, 
Members of the Federal Advisory Council 
from the First, Second, Third, Fourth, 
Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, 
Tenth, Eleventh, and Twelfth Federal 
Reserve Districts, respectively 
M r . Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
M r . Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of 
the Council 
1. 
Economic and financial conditions and prospects. 
A . 
How does the Council appraise the outlook for general 
economic activity and resource use over the balance 
of the year? 
In particular, how do Council members 
assess consumer attitudes toward spending and current 
and prospective developments in retail trade? 
Are 
there any changes occurring in the state of business 
confidence and in business plans for inventory accumu-
lation and capital expenditures over the months ahead? 
The Council believes that general economic activity has 
accelerated, as evidenced by increases in income, employment, and 
retail sales. 
Moreover, the rise in business activity appears to 
be more broadly b a s e d , encompassing the significant step-up in 
investment in plant and equipment. 

1209 
5/5/72 
-10-
These increases have coincided with some further improvement 
in consumer attitudes, although these remain less than buoyant as 
fear of unemployment gives way to concern about pay increases adequate 
to keep up with rising prices. 
However, retail sales, especially automobiles and other 
consumer durables, have continued to improve. 
The most encouraging 
improvement in attitudes has occurred in the state of business 
confidence. 
New orders were extraordinarily strong in March.^ 
inventories have remained relatively low, there should be a significant 
increase reflecting continued rising sales. 
Businessmen's plans tor 
investment in plant and equipment are also rising. 
Despite the widespread expectation of strong business growth 
in the months ahead, unemployment is not likely to fall as low as 5 
per cent, and there will remain a considerable margin of unused produc-
tive plant capacity. 
Responses by Council members to questions indicated that the 
flow of new orders to business firms had not continued in April at quite 
the strength experienced in March. 
Improvement in retail sales had 
developed principally in the South and Southwest. 
Elsewhere, the early 
Easter and unusually cool weather had been a deterrent. 
However, the 
large retailers believed that a good pick-up would come in M a y . 
Comments on the statement that consumer attitudes were "less than 
buoyant" emphasized that the Council had not intended to imply that 
deterioration was taking place, but merely that the improvement was not so 
marked as in the business sector. 
Nevertheless, consumer attitudes 
appeared to be getting stronger as the year progressed. 
Although it 
would be an over-statement to say that there was a revival of the expec-
tation of inflation among wage earners, still there were some feelings 
among consumers that while inflation was currently being abated, its 
force might be renewed in 1973. 
Even though wages in general might be 

1210 
5/5/72 
-10-
going up faster than prices, the sharp rise in food prices was felt 
directly by the consumer. 
Moreover, there was a built-in bias in that 
the individual consumer did not experience the average wage curve; what 
he was aware of was his personal situation. 
His most recent wage increase 
might have been a year or more ago, whereas he encountered increased 
living costs, especially in food prices, month after month. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether any reasons had been gleaned 
in the Council members' contacts why business was moving so slowly in 
rebuilding inventories. 
M r . Morey said he had posed that question to 
a number of companies, whose replies indicated that with a greater 
degree of price stability there was little need for forward buying, and 
that inventory control had become more sophisticated and the number of 
items carried had been reduced. 
M r . Miller mentioned that retailers 
at present were taking advantage of the fact that stocks could be 
replenished in a very short time. 
However, it might be expected that as 
business volume increased, resupply time would lengthen, and businesses 
therefore would again find it necessary to carry larger inventories. 
Other comments indicated that during the period of sluggish 
business, companies had effected economies and found that they could 
reduce pay rolls and inventories. 
Despite the return of better sales 
volume and profits, businesses were inclined to adhere to their new 
efficiency. 
Another view was expressed, however, that that was a 
temporary situation and that as confidence increased and new orders 
flowed in, businesses would forget the economies practiced during times of 
low profits and would find it desirable to carry greater inventories. 

1211 
5/5/72 
-10-
B. What impressions are Council members getting from their 
various contacts with regard to the achievements and 
difficulties of the Phase II controls? 
What constructive 
suggestions are being made with regard to means of 
improving the effectiveness of the Price Commission and 
Pay Board? 
How do Council members view the outlook for 
prices and wages over the months ahead? 
The members of the Council have the impression that the 
control system is being handled about as well as is possible, given 
its limited scope and objectives. 
Perhaps the greatest danger posed 
by controls is the possibility that public pressure in an election 
year could force undue restriction of profits for short-term political 
reasons, when earnings in the aggregate are still low in terms of 
most broad measures. 
It is hoped that such pressures will be resisted. 
As for wage and price trends, they are expected gradually to improve 
as the year progresses. 
There is concern, however, about the wage-
price outlook for 1973 and thereafter if the Federal budget is not 
brought more markedly toward balance as the economy approaches full 
employment. 
The Council believes price and wage increases will continue 
to moderate at least until the end of the year. 
A precondition for 
dismantling the controls in the future must be the establishment of 
comparative equality in bargaining between labor and business. 
Discussion indicated that the Council believed that the economy 
would fail by a wide measure to reach full employment this year. 
However, 
given the severity of the problem and the shortcomings of the tools 
available to deal with it, about as much improvement was being accomplished 
as could be expected. 
The Council's statement that price and wage increases would 
continue to moderate at least until the end of this year was supplemented 
by a comment that during the initial period of Phase II, with its need to 
get organizational machinery running and bring forth a responsive mood 
from the country, some excesses in price and wage increases were likely 
to occur, but these were now diminishing. 
Yet some months in the future 
they might recur as the program became a little wearisome. 

1212 
5/5/72 
• -5-
M r . Barr observed that the statement about the need to bring 
the Federal budget nearer to balance reflected his conviction that, with 
the gap he saw in Federal revenues, it would be necessary to raise taxes 
in 1973 or soon thereafter. 
Although restraint on expenditures also 
would provide correction, he did not believe it was realistic to expect 
much help from that direction. 
Governor Brimmer said he had the impression that achievement of 
the targets set for diminishing price and wage increases by the end 
of 1972 was in doubt. 
He inquired whether the Council shared that view 
and, if so, what course prices might be expected to take in 1973. 
M r . Freeman stated that the Council had the impression that 
the Price Commission was tightening up and expected to disallow price 
increases unless the profits of any particular industry as a whole were 
inadequate rather than to allow exceptions for individual companies. 
The 
Council felt that this greater restraint was desirable. 
Moreover, it had 
been encouraging to learn a few days ago that average wage increases 
had been much more modest than individual instances would lead one to 
expect. 
Chairman Burns spoke of the difficulties of reading accurately 
the statistics compiled independently by the Pay Board, the Price 
Commission, and the Construction Industry Stabilization Committee, and 
reconciling these data with the wage statistics compiled by the Department 
of Labor and the price data compiled by the Labor and Commerce Departments. 

1213 
5/5/72 
-6-
President Clausen remarked that a poll taken during the Council's 
meeting the previous day had indicated a unanimous view that controls 
should not be dismantled n o w , but that no great tightening measures were 
necessary than the Price Commission had indicated it expected to take. 
Chairman Burns observed that there was some feeling among economists 
and others that price controls were tending to widen the gap between list 
prices and transaction prices in industry. 
The ensuing discussion included 
the comment that although discounts from list prices had been widespread, 
leading companies in the stainless steel and aluminum industries had today 
announced reductions in list prices in order to discourage discounting 
and make their list prices more realistic. 
It was suggested that since 
price indexes are based on list prices rather than transaction prices, 
actual price rises might have been held back more than the statistics 
would suggest. 
However, comment was made that with respect to wholesale 
food prices, list prices and transaction prices are very close. 
C . 
How do Council members appraise the current and 
prospective demand for business and other types 
of loans? 
Are there significant changes occur-
ring, or in prospect, with respect to over-all 
bank lending policies? 
Bankers generally expect that the increasing tempo of business 
and the anticipated rise in business investment 
will strenthen the 
demand for business and other types of loans. 
More specifically, the demand for funds on the part of govern-
m e n t , business, and individuals will be greater in the second half of 
the year than in the first half, in part for seasonal reasons. 
Borrowing 
by the United States Government may run to $18 to $20 billion, somewhat 

1214 
5/5/72 
-10-
below that of the second half of 1971, but substantially greater than 
in the first half of 1972. 
Federal agency borrowing will be greater 
in the first h a l f , and borrowing by State and local governments is 
likely to continue at the high level of past months. 
Business borrowing 
will be heavier in the latter half of the year, but the increase is 
likely to be concentrated largely in banks and commercial paper rather 
than in the bond market. 
On the consumer side, instalment credit 
borrowing will be greater, but home mortgage demands in most areas are 
leveling out and may start to decline. 
It is anticipated that the increase in credit demands will cause 
short-term rates to move higher in the second half of the year. 
Rates 
in the long term capital market also are expected to move upward, but 
only to a moderate degree. 
It is likely that rates on consumer loans 
and on mortgages will remain near present levels, and it is not believed 
that interest rate controls will be necessary on such loans. 
Controls 
on short-term interest rates would be difficult to implement and should 
be avoided. 
If a fixed ceiling were to be placed on the bank short-term 
rate, it would channel demands into other credit markets. 
Medium sized 
and small businesses which do not have access to such markets would find 
it increasingly difficult to obtain bank credit, inasmuch as banks would 
avoid acquiring funds at costs above the rates they could charge. 
The Council is not aware of any significant changes occurring, 
or in prospect, with respect to over-all bank lending policies. 
In 
recent y e a r s , there has been a trend in the direction of longer maturities 
for term loans. 
In the past few months, some banks have extended term 
loans with the amortization delayed for a period of years and for 
maturities up to fifteen years, with a fixed rate, in contrast to a 
rate which fluctuates with the prime. 
Chairman Burns expressed special interest in the fact that term 
loan maturities had reached as much as 15 years. 
In response to questions, 
members of the Council indicated that there were relatively few instances 
of such loans, that they had arisen only within the last few months, and 
that the loans were unsecured and were made to corporate customers. 
President Clausen mentioned that in several instances brokerage 
firms had requested subordinated loans from banks to obtain funds to use 
as capital, and a few foreign companies that wanted to issue commercial 

1215 
5/5/72 
-10-
paper in the United States had sought to back those obligations with 
United States credit. 
While these requests could not be said to indicate 
changes in lending policy, they did illustrate the pressures of the 
marketplace, and changes in lending practices sometimes developed through 
an evolutionary process. 
The gradual extension of maturities in loan 
portfolios also might reflect such a stage of evolution. 
Further discussion indicated that lengthening maturities might 
arise from a greater willingness to take additional risk when business 
loan demand was slack. 
As experience was gained, there might be a 
tendency to continue making such loans, especially to borrowers with 
well-established businesses that it seemed probable would still be in 
existence 15 or 20 years hence. 
The lengthening of auto loan maturities 
over the years was mentioned. 
The view was expressed that a 15-year 
loan with a virtually certain pay-off was a more desirable asset than a 
90-day loan that might end in default. 
The risk in a long-term loan 
could be minimized through requiring covenants on the part of the borrower, 
such as limitations on the amount he could put into building or dividends 
during the term of the loan. 
M r . Freeman expressed the view that bankers had departed from 
the principle of looking to themselves for liquidity; more than half of 
loans were in long maturities at many banks. 
It was his belief that if 
some economic disaster endangered a large percentage of demand deposits, 
the Federal Reserve would be there to provide liquidity, rather than 
force banks, say, to sell Government bonds at unfavorable prices. 

1216 
5/5/72 
-
9
-
Chairman Burns said he did not believe 15-year loans should 
influence Federal Reserve policy. 
It would be a reasonable assumption 
that the Federal Reserve would not sit back and permit a drastic decline 
in demand deposits in the event of adverse economic developments. 
However, 
if an individual bank made a 15-year loan, it was betting for a long 
period that the borrowing company would remain in condition to pay that 
loan. 
The bank would be taking a risk that in the p a s t , rightly or w r o n g l y , 
bankers had been reluctant to take, and the Federal Reserve would not bail 
a bank out of unfortunate results of such risk taking. 
M r . Bond expressed the view that bank holding companies would be 
likely to seek long-term loans of the type in question. 
Such loans were 
well suited to the needs of bank holding companies, because they cost 
less than issuing medium-term debentures. 
President Clausen remarked 
that his bank still had 4 per cent real estate loans on its books. 
The 
fixed rate on the recent 15-year loans did not bother him as much as an 
unsecured loan with a long m a t u r i t y . 
He would prefer to make a 20-year 
loan on real estate security. 
D . 
How do Council members evaluate prospects for savings 
flows to bank and non-bank financial intermediaries 
over the months ahead? 
Is the availability of funds 
to the construction industry likely to remain ample 
over the balance of the year? 
Are there any changes 
occurring, or likely in the period immediately ahead, 
with respect to the interest rate policies of banks 
and competing thrift institutions in attracting 
deposits, including large-denomination certificates 
of deposit? 

1217 
5/5/72 
-10-
The members of the Council anticipate that savings flows to 
banks and non-bank financial intermediaries will slow in the months 
ahead. 
This will reflect the anticipated step-up in the economy in 
general and consumer outlays in particular. 
It is possible that the 
volume of funds in the first quarter was so large that many thrift 
institutions have uncommitted reserves. 
As a consequence, the Council 
believes that there will be ample funds available for the construction 
industry - both for mortgages and construction loans - in the months 
immediately ahead. 
As loan demand has strengthened, the money center banks have 
marked up their CD rates in an effort to maintain and/or increase 
their volume of these types of deposits. 
It is likely that this trend 
will persist as business activity accelerates and the interest rate 
structure moves higher. 
Accordingly, the Council suggests that this is an appropriate 
time to phase out the Regulation Q ceiling on larger denomination nego-
tiable CD
1
 s . 
With respect to the interest rate policies of banks and 
competing institutions, the Council believes if savings and loan asso-
ciations and mutual savings banks are given checking account privileges, 
the rate differential should be eliminated as the Hunt Commission suggested. 
President Clausen stated that the Council believed that consumer 
loan and mortgage rates, which were the most sensitive rates from a 
political standpoint, were not likely to move up very m u c h . 
Housing 
starts were down somewhat. 
He believed that it was still true, as it was 
a few months ago, that an individual could make arrangements for financing 
the purchase of a home on better terms than were available to a .corporation 
either for borrowing or for issuing bonds. 
In response to a question, mortgage rates of 7 to 7-1/2 per cent 
were mentioned, although it was pointed out that the rate had not gone as 
low as 7 per cent in some Districts. 

1218 
5/5/72 
-10-
Governor Brimmer inquired whether any changes were occurring or 
likely in the year ahead with respect to the interest rate policies of 
banks for attracting funds, including passbook savings and consumer-type 
certificates of deposit. 
Responses indicated that rates of 4 and 4-1/2 
per cent were being paid on passbook savings. 
Some banks had not reduced 
their 4-1/2 per cent r a t e , for fear of losing deposits acquired at that 
rate. 
A few had reduced to 4 per cent and then returned to 4-1/2. 
2. 
International developments 
A . 
From their various contacts at home and abroad, do 
Council members discern any improvement in market 
confidence in prevailing exchange rates since 
earlier this year? 
What seems to be the prevailing 
view among bank customers doing business abroad 
regarding the outlook for U . S . imports and exports 
this year? 
There are indications that market confidence in the prevailing 
exchange rates has improved somewhat since the first of the year. 
However, 
the level of this current confidence is neither broad nor deep. 
There does not yet appear to be any broad consensus as to 
the extent of the impact of the recent exchange rate changes on U . S . 
imports and exports. 
However, there are some indications that the 
business slowdown in Europe will not be so severe as originally 
anticipated. 
A l s o , the Canadian economy is continuing firm growth. 
These are good signs with respect to U . S . export prospects. 
Automobile exports are projected to increase, but exports 
of aircraft may decline. 
Early forecasts of a poor year for agricultural 
exports will probably prove unduly pessimistic. 
On the import side, indications are even more vague. 
However, 
the consensus approximation holds that the underlying trend in imports 
will continue upward. 
The huge first quarter deficit in the U . S . trade balance 
is regarded as abnormal, being influenced by dock strikes and the 
immediate influence of the currency revaluation. 
Improvement is 
expected as the year advances. 

1219 
5/5/72 
-12-
President Clausen remarked that the climate in the international 
sector had changed dramatically from the pessimism of February and March. 
Although there had not been sufficient time for rate differentials to 
have narrowed, the outlook was promising. 
In response to a request for 
supplementary comments on the statement that the level of current confi-
dence was neither broad nor deep, he said that the Council felt that the 
strength of the dollar would continue, given the posture of United States 
monetary policy and the narrowing rate differentials. 
There had not been 
sufficient time since the rate adjustments in March to have developed 
any broad or deep-seated confidence, but it was expected that confidence 
would grow during the next few months. 
M r . Freeman expressed the view that although confidence was 
stronger than it had been two months ago, there was some feeling that the 
Present was a period of calm, in which pressure for convertibility had 
eased and the trade situation appeared to be improving. 
Yet the tensions 
could be renewed. 
Although United States prices were going up less rapidly 
than prices abroad and the relative position of the dollar might be improving, 
he thought it would be difficult to demonstrate that the United States public 
had displayed greater discipline than the rest of the world. 
B. 
How do Council members view the prospects for inflows 
of private capital into the United States? 
Have changes 
in relative interest rates affected inflows of such funds 
in recent weeks? 
What are the prospects regarding the 
outflow of bank funds to foreign borrowers over the 
balance of 1972? 

1220 
5/5/72 
-
1
0-
Although there has been some reflow of short-term capital 
to the United States in recent w e e k s , there is no significant evidence 
that private holders abroad are inclined to increase their holdings 
of U . S . dollars in substantial amounts. 
While the narrowing of the 
differential between interest rates here and abroad has been helpiul, 
it has not in and of itself been sufficient to precipitate the required 
change in attitude. 
An expanding economy, such as is now underway, 
if it were accompanied by a further easing in price pressures and the 
expectation of a narrowing Federal budget deficit, would contribute 
importantly to a restoration of the needed confidence overseas. 
Most bankers do not anticipate a significant outflow of funds 
to foreign borrowers over the balance of 1972. 
President Clausen indicated that some members of the Council 
had wondered if there was any leeway within the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program to expand loans to foreign borrowers. 
Governor Brimmer 
responded that export credits, of course, were unrestricted. 
With respect 
to loans under the ceiling, big banks have not had much leeway, and there 
was some concern that banks that only recently adopted ceilings were 
taking participations from banks that had little leeway until supplementary 
. 
. 
i 
guidance was issued a few days ago. 
M r . Freeman spoke of the large first quarter trade balance 
deficit and suggested that offsets such as the substantial surplus on 
services might point to a better over-all balance of payments than would 
otherwise appear to be the case. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the 
poor showing in the trade balance for the first quarter probably reflected 
initial perverse reactions to devaluation, which could be expected to 
right themselves as the year advanced. 
He anticipated that continuing 
deficits would be experienced in current account. 
Services were a strong 

1221 
5/5/72 
-10-
positive, however, and the official settlements deficit was much smaller 
than most people realized. 
Changes in the dollar holdings of foreign 
central banks sometimes merely represented a change in composition, such 
as a switch from dollars into sterling or Deutschemarks. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether, given the business and other 
assumptions in the Council's statement, the members would expect active 
borrowing in the Euro-dollar market in the balance of the year. 
Responses 
indicated that, although the gap was narrowing, conditions were still 
favorable for borrowing in the United States. 
A l s o , if the Board removed 
interest rate ceilings from long-term CD's, the improved availability of 
domestic funds would work against United States banks borrowing Euro-dollars. 
3. 
Regulatory matters 
A . 
The Board would appreciate the Council members
1 
reactions to the proposed changes in Regulation D 
(Reserves of Member Banks) and Regulation J (Collection 
of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks). 
Are there any problems being uncovered either with 
regard to technical aspects of the proposed changes 
or with regard to their impact on particular groups 
of banks? 
The Council members believe that, in general, the larger banks 
favor the proposed changes in Regulations D and J . 
The geographical 
classification of banks for reserve purposes should be eliminated, and 
the proposal to base reserve requirements on size rather than location 
is less inequitable. 
At the same time, it is hoped that this will prove 
to be the first step toward the ultimate elimination of all arbitrary 
reserve classifications. 
The impact of the proposed changes, however, falls unevenly 
on various banks. 
Consequently, several bankers have suggested that 
the change in reserve requirements be phased in gradually. 

1222 
5/5/72 
-10-
In relation to this subject, the necessity of requiring a 
reserve as well as the deposit of collateral against public funds 
has been questioned. 
The change in Regulation J , requiring all banks served by 
the Federal Reserve check collection system, regardless of location, 
to pay for checks drawn on them in immediately available funds 
the 
same day the Federal Reserve presents the checks for payment, is 
receiving a mixed reception by banks. 
Most major banks favor it, 
believing that it is an essential step in the evolution of a more 
efficient payments mechanism in the country. 
However, a number of 
smaller banks distant from clearing centers, as well as bank holding 
companies which include such b a n k s , are concerned about the change 
in Regulation J because of the loss of float. 
On balance they feel 
they w i l l be penalized by the changes. 
M r . English said that while the Board*s proposals were designed 
to provide gains to offset losses, it was evident that in some cases 
both proposals would have adverse effects. 
In the case of his bank, 
which was not in a reserve city, the change in Regulation D would require 
an additional $4 million in reserves, and the change in Regulation J 
would mean the loss of about $12 million in available funds. 
That $16 
million meant the loss of about $800,000 a year in earning power, which 
was a blow to stockholders. 
While he subscribed to the general expressions 
of view in the C o u n c i l s statement and to the general objectives of the 
Board, he thought that when the proposed changes weighed so heavily on 
banks like h i s , it would seem desirable to provide an orderly phasing-in 
so that the impact would not be so severe. 
Perhaps it might be feasible 
to allow waivers of penalties for reserve deficiencies for progressively 
diminishing amounts. 

1223 
5/5/72 
-10-
M r . English pointed out also that the proposals would have the 
effect of removing the advantage of banks in Hartford, Connecticut, over 
Boston and New York banks. 
It would seem equitable that at the same time 
that advantage was lost, Hartford banks should gain access on outgoing 
items to the same kind of check services available to Boston and New York 
banks by having a check clearing center established in southern New England. 
Such a regional check processing center would also alleviate the disad-
vantage banks in Hartford, and others similarly situated, would suffer 
through the change in time schedules because they were not located near 
a major airport. 
( 
The ensuing discussion indicated some agreement that ways might 
be found in which a phasing-in period could be provided for the changes 
in reserve requirements, but no mechanism appeared readily available for 
phasing in the proposal regarding Regulation J . 
M r . Bassett expressed enthusiasm for the proposed changes in 
reserve requirements. 
However, he suggested that the exploration of a 
possible step approach in implementing those changes take account of the 
fact that fluctuation of deposits was greater in small banks than in 
large ones. 
In his v i e w , because of those large fluctuations, a case 
could be made that lower percentages of reserve requirements should apply 
to large banks rather than to smaller ones. 
A l s o , he felt that all commer-
cial banks should be required to be members of the Federal Reserve System. 

1224 
5/5/72 
-10-
Chairman Burns observed that if it had been possible to frame 
the proposed reserve requirements structure through initial legislation, 
a different pattern might have been preferred. 
However, it had been 
necessary to work within existing law, and some of what bankers regarded 
as constraints grew out of that fact. 
As for system membership of all 
commercial b a n k s , at some time (but not this year) the Board might press 
for legislation on that p o i n t , and would need support from the banking 
community. 
M r . Dorrance stated that an unusual problem existed in Pennsylvania 
in that State reserve requirements were such that Federal Reserve System 
membership became disadvantageous when a bank exceeded $34 million in 
deposits. 
The State had a developing program of regional banks, and 
those banks had expressed themselves strongly about the proposed changes 
in Regulations D and J• 
The group with which M r . Dorrance had worked had 
used for a model a $200 million regional bank and had calculated the actual 
cost of the combined impacts of the changes, including the offset of gains 
under Regulation D against losses under Regulation J . 
He suggested that 
a phasing-in period such as M r . English had suggested might be accomplished 
by such a measurement of combined impact and spreading it over six m o n t h s . 
Discussion of M r . Dorrance*s suggestion included a comment by 
M r . English that he had had in mind a transition period of as long as 
three y e a r s . 
After inquiries about the calculation M r . Dorrance*s group 
had m a d e , it was understood that Council members who had suggestions 
regarding a possible phase-in mechanism would give them to the Board in 
w r i t i n g . 

1Z25 
-18-
What are the Council
f
s views on monetary and credit 
policy under present circumstances? 
Bankers generally favor current monetary and credit policy, 
which has permitted the monetary and credit aggregates to grow in 
recent months at a seasonally adjusted rate of about 10 per cent. 
Growth at this rate cannot be sustained indefinitely without creating 
a potential for future inflation and arousing expectations of inflation, 
particularly with continuing huge Federal deficits in prospect. 
In 
these circumstances, and with the business recovery well assured, it 
appears desirable for monetary policy to become less expansive over 
coming months even though this may result in a further rise in short-term 
interest rates. 
President Clausen stated that Messrs. Rockefeller and Freeman 
would respond orally to the additional question the Board had posed, 
namely, "Looking ahead to the future, what kinds of changes in the 
international monetary system do members of the Council believe the United 
States Government should support." 
M r . Rockefeller expressed the view that the question should be 
approached in the context of what had changed in the international monetary 
environment since the Bretton Woods Agreements. 
One important change was 
the role of the dollar. 
In some respects it had become more important as 
a transactions currency than it was in 1944. 
In a sense it had also become 
more important as a reserve currency; it was in ample supply, whereas 
in 1944 it had been scarce. 
As the dollar had taken on more prominence 
in the reserves of foreign countries, the impact of domestic developments 
in the United States economy upon the world economy had gained significance. 
5/5/72 
4. 

1 2 2 6 
5/5/72 
-10-
In the last few years domestic conditions had had an unusually adverse 
effect on the rest of the w o r l d , and M r . Rockefeller believed that that 
situation had raised the question whether a dollar of fluctuating value 
was desirable as a reserve currency. 
It might be that the time had come 
when the dollar as a reserve c u r r e n c y — n o t as a transaction c u r r e n c y -
should play a less prominent role. 
One step in that direction would be 
to strengthen the relative position of special drawing rights or their 
modified equivalent in the years ahead and diminish the role of both the 
dollar and of gold. 
The next area one might want to consider, M r . Rockefeller continued 
was the flexibility of adjustment to changes in domestic price levels, 
which would point to the need for revisions in exchange parities. 
In 
looking b a c k , one might agree that in the last few years the dollar had 
gotten out of line in relation to other currencies, and if an adjustment 
had been made sooner, there might have been fewer dislocations than had 
been associated w i t h the crisis culminating on August 15 last year. 
Essentially, the question was whether there should be a floating rate 
(which he did not favor), more frequent adjustment in parities, a crawling 
p e g , or somewhat wider bands. 
M r . Rockefeller thought that another point to be considered was 
the adjustment necessary to deal with the present situation, especially 
with the large dollar balances held by foreign g o v e r n m e n t s — t h e question 
whether there is in fact an overhang and, if s o , whether it would be 
desirable to fund some of those balances. 
It might be useful to explore 

1227 
5/5/72 
-10-
the possibility of some mechanism through which foreign governments that 
had been cooperative might be given some advantage if the value of the 
dollar were to decline relative to SDR's or other agreed-upon unit of 
value. 
Negotiations for dealing with the problem of large dollar holdings 
should not be conducted apart from the International Monetary Fund. 
It 
was the Council
f
s feeling that the role of the IMF should be strengthened 
rather than weakened. 
It had proved to be an institution of enormous 
value to the world economy. 
President Clausen expressed the view that the SDR should become 
the numeraire rather than the dollar; the dollar then would not suffer 
any greater pressures in foreign markets than any other currency because 
of developments in its domestic economy. 
The SDR would serve as a buffer. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the Council had discussed the 
possibility of linkage between SDR's and less developed countries. 
M r . 
Rockefeller responded that while there had not been discussion of that 
point by the Council, it was his view that such a linkage would be dangerous. 
The SDR should be a reserve unit that could be counted on for stability. 
One reason he had suggested moving from the dollar as a reserve unit was 
that there were doubts that it was sufficiently stable. 
A kind of conflict 
of interest would be built in if S D R
1
s were expected to provide stability 
and also to serve as a means of financing capital requirements for less 
developed nations. 
Although the less developed countries might get more 
capital through the use of SDR's, in his view other means of providing 
capital should be found. 

1228 
5/5/72 
-10-
M r . Rockefeller also expressed the view, based on a number of 
conversations he had had recently with European central bankers, that 
although the Smithsonian Agreement was about as good an arrangement as 
could have been developed at that time, it was not going to be a viable 
solution for an indefinite period. 
Therefore, it was highly desirable 
that a permanent and longer-range settlement be sought. 
He thought it 
would help to preserve the status quo created by the Smithsonian Agreement 
and avoid further crises of the kind experienced in March if central bankers 
a
n d governments could observe that the United States was really moving 
agressively and interestedly to arrive at a permanent settlement. 
In his 
v
i e w , a major preoccupation in Europe was the question of convertibility. 
Therefore, if there could be some indication that it was an objective of 
United States to return as soon as possible to some kind of convert-
ibility- -not necessarily into gold at a fixed relationship but at least a 
Partial convertibility into some other asset such as S D R ' s — h e thought 
European central banks and governments would feel greater reassurance and 
less resentment and concern. 
M r . Freeman expressed the view that moving away from the dollar 
as a reserve currency, as M r . Rockefeller had suggested, would involve 
too critical a risk for the Bretton Woods Agreement. 
The Agreement was 
°Perating w e l l , and that move would be a fundamental change. 
He felt 
Somewhat more strongly than M r . Rockefeller about maintaining the dollar 
a s
 a reserve asset. 
Although it had not been entirely stable, it had 
fluctuated less than other currencies. 
In the light of the fact that all 

5/5/72 
-22-
currencies were subject to political pressures, the dollar had done a 
pretty good job. 
When considering the question of relating currencies 
to some over-all unit of value, it seemed to him that the best relationship 
might be to the most stable currency. 
Absolute stability such as the 
value of gold had no great disciplinary value. 
He thought the United 
States had a tremendous stake in keeping the dollar as a major reserve 
asset. 
The ability of United States citizens to trade and invest abroad 
was greatly influenced by the fact that the dollar was the transaction 
currency, and it in turn was influenced by the fact that the dollar was 
a reserve currency. 
If that position was not accepted, then he would 
agree that SDR's should be given a greater role as an anchor; the IMF 
might be less susceptible to political influences than the government of 
any individual country. 
He believed in currency parities in terms of 
wider ranges and the crawling peg. 
If a free market were permitted, he 
thought that a little wider scope would subject each nation to a somewhat 
greater discipline and yet should not inhibit trade. 
There might be a 
tendency for bankers to forget that traders generally had a sufficient 
profit margin to absorb currency fluctuations that would be difficult for 
the small interest spread of bankers to absorb. 
M r . Freeman also spoke of a possible course to provide correction 
in international monetary affairs, although he said he had advanced this 
suggestion in the past without finding much agreement from others. 
He 
started with the analogy of a banker who finds that a borrowing company 

1230 
5/5/72 
-10-
is in trouble and can not pay its loan. 
The banker would sit down with 
company officials and help to make plans for eventual repayment, probably 
canceling some of the debt in return for an equity in the company. 
Simi-
larly, it. seemed to M r . Freeman that if the United States had to provide 
some measure of convertibility, it could suggest that other nations cancel 
some of the obligations of the United States and accept instead stock in 
United States corporations. 
The stocks could be offered at a discount, 
could be chosen by the foreign authorities and exchanged for different 
stocks when desired, but there would be an agreement that the stocks would 
be held for ten years and could be used as a reserve asset for settlements 
among the foreign countries and with the United States. 
Thus, with its 
debt extended, the United States would be out from under immediate pressure 
and the countries that held the stocks would have an income-earning asset 
in stocks that, if wisely chosen, might provide appreciation rather than 
the likely depreciation of the dollar. 
Moreover, if the foreign countries 
held stocks in United States corporations, they would be less likely to 
try to exclude such corporations from their territory. 
While M r . Freeman 
realized that the plan he suggested would involve problems, he believed 
they could be solved and that the plan presented a possibility worth 
considering if the United States had to offer something in the way of 
convertibility. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on September 14-15, 1972. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
