Minutes for October 30 
To: 
Members of the Board 
Fr om; Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

' 1 1 4 0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 30, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Winkler, Secretary, Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Craig of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Greenspun, Sarfati, Shull, and 
Thompson of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Boston and Atlanta on October 23, by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas on 

4141 
10/30/67 
- 2 -
October 26, and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on October 23 
and 28, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing 
schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appro-
priate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the members of the Board. Copies are attached under the respec-
tive item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
1 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting con-
sent for Continental and Overseas Investments 
N. V., Amsterdam, The Netherlands, to make 
an additional investment in shares of Banque 
Europeenne d'Outre-Mer, Brussels, Belgium. 
Letter to the Secretary of the Federal Advi- 
2 
sory Council transmitting a list of topics 
suggested for discussion at the forthcoming 
meeting of the Council. 
Report on competitive factors* After discussion, a draft of 
report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of Belmar-Wall National Bank, West 
Belmar, New Jersey, into New Jersey National Bank and Trust Company, 
Neptune Township, New Jersey, was referred back to the staff for prep-
aration of a revised report, for the Board's consideration, in light 
°f comments made by members of the Board which suggested the desir-
ability of further analysis. 

1147 
10/30/67 
- 3 -
Testimony on bank credit cards. Governor Brimmer had been 
designated to present testimony on behalf of the Board before the House 
Banking and Currency Committee on November 8, 1967, in connection with 
hearings on H.R. 12646, a bill that would prohibit any insured bank 
from issuing a credit card except by request and would require that 
each card carry a dollar limit. With a memorandum of October 27, 
Governor Brimmer had distributed an outline of possible testimony in 
order to obtain guidance from the Board in the preparation of a com-
plete draft statement. He attached a memorandum from Mr. Cardon dated 
October 16 describing certain criticisms by Chairman Patman with respect 
to bank credit cards. 
Governor Brimmer noted that a meeting of the System Task Group 
on Bank Credit Cards was to be held in Boston this week. There would 
be a review of developments thus far in connection with the study, and 
consideration would be given to the extent to which the work of the 
Task Group could be drawn upon to bolster the forthcoming testimony. 
However, since this was the first time the Board had been called upon 
to take a policy position on bank credit cards, it would be helpful to 
have some general reaction from the Board members on the broad thrust 
°f the testimony as outlined. 
Governor Brimmer pointed out that basically the outline sug-
gested taking the position that no crisis or emergency existed such as 
to require immediate legislative action by the Congress. The testimony 

4143 
10/30/67 
- 4 -
would indicate that the System Task Group was at work, that results 
should be available by next year, and that it was hoped the Congress 
would find them useful. The testimony also would deal specifically 
with certain criticisms by Chairman Patman that were reflected in his 
bill. As to Mr. Patman1s view that banks should not be permitted to 
issue credit cards except upon request, the testimony would suggest, 
for the several reasons indicated in the outline, that such a require-
ment was not needed. As to the proposed requirement that each credit 
card carry a dollar limit, the testimony would express the understand-
ing that this was already being done by banks generally, which raised 
the question whether anything would be gained by enacting legislation. 
Governor Daane agreed that the thrust of the outline toward not 
supporting the bill was appropriate. However, it occurred to him that 
the draft went somewhat too far in a negative and defensive direction. 
The outline seemed to convey a feeling that there was no need for leg-
isla tion at any point in time. He would prefer to take a somewhat more 
neutral position, in terms that the credit card device should first be 
studied carefully, that the need for legislative action could better be 
determined from such study, and that it would be premature to legislate 
at this time. 
Governor Maisel said he had the same general reaction. It 
might well be that legislation would be necessary at some point, but 
there appeared to be no urgent need. He would stress in the testimony 

4144 
10/30/67 
- 5 -
that the credit card development might lead to a change in the whole 
competitive structure of the banking system, and he would urge that 
the Congress give the matter careful consideration rather than act on 
what might be relatively unimportant parts of the total problem. He 
would refrain from arguing, for example, that the widespread use of 
credit cards should not raise costs to the individual consumer, for 
in his opinion there was such a possibility. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that the bank credit card 
was one of the more important innovations in the banking business in 
recent years. The outlook was not clear at this stage. Therefore, he 
would take the approach in testifying that no legislation seemed to be 
required at this time but that the problem should be given careful con-
sideration looking to the future. 
Governor Robertson said he saw the distribution of credit cards 
as equivalent to offering to extend credit to anyone who was willing 
to sign his name on the line, without credit analysis. In his view 
it bordered on an unsafe and unsound banking practice. In testifying 
°n the proposed legislation, he would take the position that this was 
a new field, that it would be unfortunate to establish inflexible rules 
and that any legislation enacted should at least permit flexibility at 
the regulatory level. He would emphasize that the System was in the 
^idst of a study to determine the nature of prospective problems and 
that the scope of any needed legislation could be determined better 

4145 
10/30/67 
- 6 -
after the results of the study were available. While he would not 
oppose legislation, neither would he espouse it, but he would urge that 
any legislation provide for administrative flexibility. 
Governor Robertson added that he thought real problems were 
inherent in the credit card device. In his view the issuance of credit 
cards by banks could not properly be compared with the issuance of such 
cards by other industries. Nor should it be argued that significant 
losses might not be sustained; conceivably the practice could result 
in losses of a magnitude that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
could not bear. In addition, he saw anticompetitive implications in the 
use of this device. He was concerned about many aspects of the use of 
bank credit cards and felt that the subject deserved careful considera-
tion by both the Congress and the regulatory agencies. 
Governor Maisel repeated that in his view it would be feasible 
to oppose the pending legislation on the basis that no critical problem 
existed at the moment without taking the position that the credit card 
device posed no problems. 
Governor Daane said he would present the view that the System 
W as studying the subject, the field was a new one, and legislation there-
fore should be postponed. If the testimony was set up on that basis, he 
did not believe it would be necessary to open up at this time the point 
°f flexibility raised by Governor Robertson. 

1:1.46 
10/30/67 
- 7 -
Governor Sherrill said he felt strongly that legislation should 
be deferred. The problem got into the question of the lending powers 
of banks, an area where decisions had traditionally been reserved to 
the bankers within certain over-all limitations. In his view it would 
be a mistake to rush forward with legislation having to do with a new 
form of credit extension before there was an adequate understanding of 
the problem. 
In reply to a question by Governor Daane, Mr. Cardon expressed 
the view that the forthcoming hearings would not result in enactment of 
legislation. In his opinion the hearings were designed principally to 
determine whether the bank supervisors were allowing the banks to go 
into a new venture without adequate supervisory attention. From that 
point of view it seemed to him that it would be helpful to put the 
problem in perspective and show that the supervisors were not simply 
standing aside and permitting something to go on that would undermine 
the whole credit system. 
Governor Daane commented that Mr. Cardon seemed to be suggest-
ing essentially the same approach that several members of the Board 
were suggesting, namely, that although in time legislation might be 
needed it was premature to judge the ramifications of the problem at 
the moment. 
Governor Sherrill noted that it was his impression that bank 
nianagements were looking at the credit card device carefully and making 

1147 
10/30/67 
- 8 -
some adjustments. If there was evidence to that effect, he felt it 
might usefully be covered in the testimony. 
Governor Brimmer replied that that was one of the things the 
Task Group was looking at specifically. He added that he had discussed 
the question of the proposed testimony preliminarily with Governor 
Mitchell, who expressed the view that legislation, at least in the form 
proposed in the pending bill, was not needed at this time. 
Chairman Martin remarked that he had read the outline of testi-
mony carefully and that he hoped the statement as presented would strike 
a note of concern. The testimony should not give the impression that 
the Board was unaware of the fact that the credit card device could 
lead to difficulties. On the other hand, he felt the statement should 
contain an expression to the effect that the banks must be relied upon, 
even more than heretofore, to judge the credits they extended. In his 
view it was becoming more and more apparent that the supervisory author-
ities could not conduct the banking business of the country. He did not 
think that the Board should stand for or against legislation at the 
moment, but the testimony should carry a note of concern. 
After further discussion Governor Brimmer indicated that a 
draft of statement would now be prepared for the Board's consideration 
in the light of the views that had been expressed. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Sherman and Kenyon then 
withdrew from the meeting. 

4 \ 4 8 
10/30/67 
- 9 -
Visits by State bankers associations. Governor Robertson pointed 
out that it seemed appropriate for the Board to consider at this time 
whether it wanted to continue the practice followed for a number of 
years of cooperating with the American Bankers Association in making 
arrangements for the annual visits to Washington by State bankers asso-
ciations and similar groups during the winter and spring months of 1967-
68. 
There was general agreement with Governor Robertson's view that 
the Board should continue to cooperate by being represented at receptions 
and dinners given by the respective groups and by inviting those groups 
to luncheons and conferences at the Board's building. It was also agreed 
that the arrangements should be of the same general nature as in recent 
years, and it was understood that the Secretary's Office would proceed 
with preparations along those lines. 
Some members of the Board suggested that it would be helpful to 
them, in preparing to confer with visiting groups, if they had an indi-
cation of the types of questions that were likely to be raised. It was 
suggested that the Secretary get in touch with appropriate officials of 
the American Bankers Association to determine the possibilities, one of 
which might envisage the Association's furnishing an outline of the brief-
ing given to the visiting groups. 
Some members of the Board also expressed the view that it would 
be helpful to them if a limited number of senior staff members partici-
pated in the conferences, with selection made on the basis of the subjects 

4149 
10/30/67 
-10-
that seemed likely to be discussed. Governor Robertson suggested that 
the selection of staff members for that purpose be left to the Board 
member who was to conduct the conference, with coordination through the 
Secretary's Office in order to assure, among other things, that the same 
staff members were not called upon repeatedly. 
A further suggestion was that representation of the Board's staff 
at the luncheons with the visiting groups be broadened, especially with 
a view to achieving adequate participation by the research staff. 
Governor Maisel suggested that an effort be made to draw up the 
schedule so that Board members would not be asked to meet with delega-
tions from the same State repeatedly, while Governor Brimmer added that 
due consideration also should be given to the preferences of individual 
Board members. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 3 
is a copy of an interpretation dated Octo-
ber 27, 1967, relating to bank credit card 
service organizations. This interpretation 
was issued pursuant to the understanding at 
the meeting on October 18, 1967. 
At its meeting on September 22, 1967, the 
Board approved the publication of a monthly 
summary of equity security transactions and 
ownership of directors, officers, and prin-
cipal stockholders of State member banks, 
with the understanding, however, that pub-
lic announcement would not be made until 
near the end of October. Attached as Item 
No. 4 is a copy of the press release issued 
today. 

4150 
10/30/67 
-11-
On October 27, 1967, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board the fol-
lowing items: 
Memorandum from the Director of the Division of Research and Sta-
tistics dated October 27, 1967, requesting authorization for continued 
participation by Stephen P. Taylor, Chief of the Flow of Funds and Sav-
ings Section, in the work of the group of technicians established by 
the OECD's Committee for Invisible Transactions to review financial 
statistics compiled by member countries and suggest techniques for 
improving them, and recommending that Mr. Taylor also be authorized 
to express his willingness to serve as chairman of the technical group. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board' 
staff: 
Appointments 
Jerry William Tom as Operations Analyst, Office of the Controller, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $9,851, effective October 30, 
1967, it being understood that the usual physical requirements would 
be waived. 
Hersey M. Woods, Jr., as Elevator Mechanic-Operating Engineer, 
Division of Administrative Services, with basic annual salary at the 
rate of $7,758, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Ruth E. Robinson, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, from $4,776 to $5,331 per annum, with a change in title 
to Statistical Assistant, effective November 5, 1967. 
Judith A. Ziobro, Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, from $7,957 to $9,221 per annum, with a change in title 
to Economist, effective November 5, 1967. 
Transfer 
Patricia Ann Russell, from the position of Stenographer in the 
Division of Examinations to the position of Production Control Clerk 
(Trai nee) in the Division of Data Processing, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective November 5, 1967. 

4151 
10/30/67 
-12-
Pursuant to the recommendation of the 
Division of Research and Statistics, 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the transfer of 
Irving Gedanken, Statistician in the 
Division of Data Processing, to the 
position of Statistician in the Divi-
sion of Research and Statistics, with 
no change in basic annual salary at the 
rate of $16,675, effective November 5, 
1967. 
On October 27 and 30, 1967, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by the 
following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item num-
bers indicated: 
On October 27, 1967 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No, 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
5 
approving the appointment of William R. Bates, 
Donald W. Hinds, and George R. Schwarz as 
assistant examiners. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
6 
approving the appointment of Ronald Leslie 
Price as assistant examiner. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to The Bank of Virginia, Richmond, 
7 
Virginia, approving the conversion of its 
banking facility at the Bellwood Defense 
General Supply Center, Chesterfield County, 
to a branch. 
Letters to The Bank of Virginia, Richmond, 
Virginia, approving the establishment of 
two branches in Norfolk. 
8-9 

4152 
10/30/67 
On October 27, 1967 
-13-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Bank of Dearborn, Dearborn, 
Michigan, approving the establishment 
of a branch at 23053 Michigan Avenue. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, approving the relocation of its 
Marble Mortgage Company Office from 3645 Grand 
Avenue to 1939 Harrison Street, Oakland. 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, approving the operation of a tempo-
rary facility between 3:00 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. 
on November 20, 1967, at a theater located at 
Olive and Wishon Streets in Fresno. 
On October 30, 1967 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Ilawkeye Bancorporation, Red Oak, 
Iowa, granting an extension of time within 
which to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of Houghton 
State Bank, Red Oak, Iowa. 
Item No. 
10 
11 
12 
13 

A153 
BOARD DF G O V E R N O R S 
, OF THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
10/30/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 30, 1967. 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of October 16, 1967 
written on behalf of Continental and Overseas Investments 
N. V. ( COIN"), Amsterdam, The Netherlands, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for COIN to make an additional 
investment in Banque Europeene d'Outre-Mer, Brussels 
Belgium, of 50 million Belgian Francs (US$1,000,000 equiv-
alent). 
It is noted that COIN currently has sufficient 
funds for the proposed investment and that no additional 
investment will be required by your Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1154 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
''.". 
''w'V'. 
' ' I... 
".•"'],:*•'•" 
J->- 'J 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
10/30/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 30, 1967. 
Mr. Herbert V. Prochriow, 
Secretary, 
Federal Advisory Council, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Herb: 
The Board of Governors suggests the topics shown on 
the attached list for discussion at the meeting of the Federal 
Advisory Council on November 20, 1967, and the joint meeting 
°f the Board and the Council on November 21. 
Very truly yours, 
Attachment 

Suggested Topics for Discussion at Meeting of 
Federal Advisory Council on November 20-21, 1967 
1155 
Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general economic outlook for 
the next 6 months? The outlook for wage and price developments? 
B. What impressions do Council members have from their customer 
contacts with regard to the trend of prospective business 
outlays (1) for capital investments and (2) for inventories? 
C. With respect to residential construction, are mortgage funds 
judged to be adequate to meet current and near-term demands in 
the Council members' respective regions? Do present levels of 
interest rates on mortgages appear to be deterring potential 
home buyers? 
Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the probable strength of 
business loan demands over the next 6 months? 
B. In the Council's judgment, are bank liquidity positions still 
improving? What are current policies of banks regarding preferred 
types and maturities of investments? 
C. How would the Council appraise recent and prospective changes 
in market demands for large-denomination CD's of various 
maturities? 
For consumer-type CD's and savings deposits? 
D. What additional steps, if any, should bank supervisors take, or 
encourage banks to take, in order to help combat the record 
volume of internal crimes (embezzlements) and external crimes 
(robberies) committed against banks? 
E. The Board would be interested in comments of Council members 
concerning developments with respect to bank credit card opera-
tions since this subject was discussed at its meeting with the 
Council on May 16. In particular, comments would be welcomed 
on volume, card distribution techniques, loss experience, and 
prospects for development of regional and national interchange 
arrangements. 
balance of payments. 
A* Do Council members expect U.S. bank loans to foreign borrowers to 
change significantly in the months ahead? 

1156 
- 2 -
B. In the judgment of the Council, has the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint program affected the amount of U.S. bank credit available 
for financing U.S. exports? Does the Council expect any change 
in this situation in the near future, and if so, in what direction? 
C. What do Council members expect to be the course of Euro-dollar 
borrowings by U.S. banks through their foreign branches from 
now through the year end? 
The Board would welcome comments by Council members on the proposed 
changes in the Board's margin regulations that were published on 
October 20, 1967. 
What are the Council's views on monetary and credit policy under 
current circumstances? 

1157 
Item No. 3 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
10/30/67 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. S] 
PART 219 - BANK SERVICE ARRANGEMENTS 
Credit Card Service Organization 
§ 219.104 Bank Credit Card Service Organization and the Bank Service 
Corporation Act. 
(a) The Board of Governors recently considered whether the 
so-called Bank Service Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1861 ff.) and the 
Board's Regulation S, "Bank Service Arrangements" (12 CFR 219), are 
applicable where a bank credit card plan of a State member bank and 
other banks uses the facilities of a non-profit no-stock service 
organization. 
(b) The functions of the service organization include the 
following: 
(1) performs cardholder accounting for participating 
banks; (2) develops information concerning each credit card and holder, 
including such holder's current balance owing to the card issuing 
bank and the amount of such balance that is delinquent; (3) assists 
in procedures relating to the presentation and settlement of drafts 
and credit memoranda; (4) develops procedures relating to credit card 
security control; (5) upon telephonic request, advises merchants and 
Participating banks respecting credit authorizations above certain 
specified limits; and (6) compiles lists of participating merchants. 

- 2 -
4158 
(c) The Board expressed the view that, because the service 
organization has no stock and the State member bank does not otherwise 
"invest" therein by "the making of a loan, or otherwise, except a 
payment for rent earned, goods sold and delivered, or services rendered 
prior to the making of such payment" (section 1(d) of the Act), the 
service organization is not a "bank service corporation" within the 
meaning of section 1(c) of the Act. 
(d) However, the Board concluded that the functions described 
above do constitute "bank services" as defined in section 1(b) of the 
Act. Under the Act, such term "means services such as check and 
deposit sorting and posting, computation and posting of interest and 
other credits and charges, preparation and mailing of checks, state-
ments, notices, and similar items, or any other clerical, bookkeeping, 
accounting, statistical, or similar functions performed for a bank." 
(e) Section 5 of the Act provides that no federally-insured 
bank may have any such bank services performed for it unless assurances 
satisfactory to the appropriate supervisory agency "are furnished to 
such agency by both the bank and the party performing such services 
that the performance thereof will be subject to regulation and examina-
tion by such agency to the same extent as if such services were being 
performed by the bank itself on its own premises." 

4159 
- 3 -
(f) Accordingly, the State member bank and the service 
organization are required to furnish assurances to the Board in accord-
ance with the provisions of Regulation S, which implements section 5 
of the Act. 
(Interprets or applies 12 U.S.C. 1861 and 1865.) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 27th day of October, 1967. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
<11 B O 
Item No. 4 
10/30/67 
For immediate release. 
October 30, 1S67. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System released 
today the first in a new series of monthly reports entitled "Summary 
°f Equity Security Transactions and Ownership of Directors, Officers, 
and Principal Stockholders of Member State Banks, as Reported Pursuant 
to Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange ^ct of 1934." Approximately 
3,500 officers, directors, and principal stockholders (10 per cent or 
more) of member State banks that are registered pursuant to section 12(g) 
°f that law have filed reports disclosing their ownership of, and trans-
actions in, bank stock. 
The purpose of the new publication is to disseminate infor-
mation which may be of interest to stockholders and other members of 
the investing public. The summary will list acquisitions or dispositions 
bV any "insider" (described above) that aggregated more than 50 shares 
his bank's stock during, the month. Stock dividends, stock splits, and 
Sifts will not be included in the summary, nor will it include insiders' 
foldings as initially reported. The underlying reports will continue to 
available for public inspection at the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation Building, 550 17th Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. 20429. 

416.1 
-2-
The first summary, covering ownership reports filed with 
the Board during the period September 11, 1967, to October 10, 1967, 
is attached. Persons desiring to receive this summary (identified as 
Release G.16) each month should write to Publications Services, Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551. 
For the time being, at least, there will be no charge for these reports. 
-0-
Attochment. 

m 
'i i 
'TFASFLIFC 
:a 
n r / 2 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
• . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
10/30/67 
A D D R C I S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R K E I F Q N O C N C I 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 30, 1967 
rlBi": 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of October 25, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointments of William R. Bates, Donald W. Hinds, and 
George R. Schwarz as assistant examiners for the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Please advise the 
effective dates of the appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

m 
F / 
••i^SSsfe. 
''fW re^V 
1163 
BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
10/30/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 30, 1967 
Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
,. 
. 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of October 24, 1967, the Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Ronald Leslie 
Price as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Dallas. Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

* 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K O F R I C H M O N D 
COPY 
4164 
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 
23213 
i ? 
Item No. 7 
Ofttobt* 21, 1947. 
10/30/67 
Board of Blraetora, 
Ami »«nk of Virginia, 
Blchaond, Virginia 23214. 
Tha fidtril fttum lak of tlefcnond, on bahaIf 
of and undar authority dalag*tad by tha Board of Oovornara of 
tha Fodaral taaarva Byataa, haa approved the application of 
Tha Bank of Virginia, B I C I M O m i , Virginia, to canvart its 
facility at Ballwood Dafanaa tanaral Supply Cantar, Chat tar* 
floW County, firginla, to a branch. In raaehlng thlt daclaloa, 
coaaldaration haa baan glvan to tha bank's capitalisation 
and aaoignat, tha coavaalaaaa and naada of tha caoatfnlty, 
tha conpatitlva altuatlon la tha araa and tha futura proapacta 
•f tha branah. 
Flaaaa «ivl«« aa whan a 4oflaita data far canvartlag 
tha facility to a branch haa baaa dataminad. Alaa, wa would 
llha to kaow tha aaact tltla undar which tha branch will oparata, 
Toura vary truly, 
/s/ Aubrey N. Heflin 
Aiibray i. ttaflia, 
Vint Vica Praaldant. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K O F 
R I C H M O N D 
4165 
RICHMOND. VIRGINIA 
23213 
Item No. 8 
10/30/67 
October 27, 1967. 
Board of Directors, 
Tho tank of Virginia, 
Richmond, Virginia 23214. 
Gent lament 
Tho federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, on behalf 
of and under authority delegated by the Board of Governors of 
the fedaral Reaerve System, haa approved the application of 
The Bank of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, to establish a 
branch at the lnteraection of City Hall Avenue and Court Street, 
Norfolk, Virginia. In reaching thla declalon, consideration 
Has baen given to the bank's capitalisation and management, 
the convenience and needa of the community, the competitive 
situation in the area and the future proapecta of the branch. 
Authority granted hereby expires one year from 
the dete of thia letter. Flease edvlse us when a definite 
fate for opening has been determined end the smact title under 
which the brench will operate. 
Toura very truly, 
/s/ Aubrey N. Heflin 
Aubrey M. leflin, 
First Viea Frasidant. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
OF R I C H M O N D 
\ 3 COPY 
RICHMOND, VJRGINIA 
23213 
October 27, 19*7. 
Item No. 9 
10/30/67 
:1:V 
Seerd of Directors, 
the Sank of Virginia, 
ttichaond, VirginU 232U. 
Qentl 
•an-' !'i 
The Federal leearve ftank of Richmond, on behalf 
*f anal under authority delegated by tha Board of Governor® of 
the Federal Reserve System, haa approved the aapllcation of 
tffce Bank of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, ro establish a branch 
at the intersection of Military Highway and Virginia Beach 
Boulevard, Korfolk, Virginia. In reaching this decision, 
ceoeideratier has been given to the hank's capitalist ion and 
•anajpment, the convenience and needs of the comamnity, the 
canpetltlve situation la the area and the future preeneete of 
the branch. 
Authority granted hereby expires one year fro* 
t*<§ date ef this letter, fleas a advise ua when a definite 
aate fer opening hea been deteraiatd end the exact title 
under which the breneh will ©yerate. 
Yours very truly, 
/s/ Aubrey N. Heflin 
Aubrey W. Beflin, 
First Vice Fresldent, 
1 : 
i 
0 
• 
. 
. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2J0 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60W0 
(312) HA 7-2)20 
Item No. 10 
10/30/67 
October 27, 19oJ 
Mr. J. R. Warier, President 
Bcjiii of Dearborn 
Dearborn, Michigan 1*8124 
Dear Mr. Wagnerj 
Under authority delegated by the Board of Governors, 
ve hereby grant permission to Eank of Dearborn, Dearborn, 
Michi&an, to establish a branch at 25053 Michican Avenue, 
Dearborn, Michigan, provided the main office is moved from 
that location and the branch established within a period of 
six months after the date of this letter. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalization of Bank of 
Dearborn Is adequate, the management is satisfactory, that the 
proposed branch will serve the needs and convenience of the 
community, and that the branch will not tend to create an 
undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
^fottxtjf 
co - Mr. Merritt Sherman / 
• Mich. FID 
- Detroit Branch 
• Examiner's file C O P Y 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
B A N F R A N C I S C O . C A L I F O R N I A 
94120 
Item No. 11 
10/30/67 
October 1.1, 1967 
Mr. Hal Mendon, 
Senior Executive Vice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
L->n Angeles, California 90054. 
Dear M*. Mendon: 
On behalf of the B >ard.^ Govern j; 
Federal Reserve System, acting^mder dele^at^d authority, 
this Bank has approved the'relocation of y^ar bank's 
Marble Mortgage Company Office ftvm 364>^Grond Avenue to 
now quarters in tWFarlr^laaa Bu^dJcrfg, 
Harrison 
Street, Oakland,/<Jaliforni^, provided that operations at 
the bank's ex i si: ins office aVc discontinued simultaneously 
with the opening of the office at the\iew location. This 
approval is «i\len with tho understanding that tho operations 
r.o^~c3hducted\at the new location will still be limited 
jto tho negotiating, processing, and servicing jf real 
estate mortgage 
I c k H m l . — ^ 
It will be appreciated if you will advise che 
Board of Governors in writing, through this bank, when 
\he office >ts actually established and >pened for business 
fi t the rv»w location. 
Very truly yours, 
(oiffned) Irwin L. Jonnin*s 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
4169 
S A N F H A N O I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
94120 
Item No. 12 
October 27, 1967 ' 
10/30/67 
Mr. John B. Cobb, Attorney, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California 90054. 
Dear Mr. Cobb: 
On behalf of the Board 
Federal Reserve System, actin 
this Bank has approved the ope 
Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
be operated beta#een£he^hours o 
November 20, 196yfat a theater 
Wishm Streets /n Fresno, c\liforni 
DvernoJrs of the 
delegated authority, 
ed California 
facility to 
, 4:30 P.M. on 
Olive and 
It it understood thjst nothing other than the 
accei>tfmce of deposits will be carried out by this 
:ility and th*t it: 
operated as a one-time 
facility only. 
Very truly youra, 
(sirred) Irvln L. Jonninss 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
1 

41.70 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Item No. 13 
10/30/67 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60W0 
(312) HA 7-2320 
October 30, V # t 
Mr. Paul D. Dun!ftp, President 
HavJwoye Br&acarporati aa 
Bod Oak, lamk 51966 
Dour Mr. JDunlapt 
On behalf of the Board of Governor*, acting under 
dale&Ltod authority, thia Bank extendi until January 5, 1968, 
the tiae In which Hawkeys Bancorporaticn, presently the owner of 
a majority of the voting shares of I^on County State Bank, Bock 
faplda, Iowa, cay beccae a bonk holding oaqpany through the 
acquisition of 31 per cent or nor* of the voting shares of 
Houghton State Bank, Had Oak, lam. 
Very truly youre, 
i 
C O P Y 
