Minutes for 
August 27, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

O/w //C 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 27, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Lynch, and Noble of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Golden, and Lawrence of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, and Kline of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Millea and Waller of the Office of the 
Controller 
Mr. Nelson of the Division of Data Processing 

* 1 
4 KJ 
8/27/68 
-2-
Application of Bank of America (Item No. 1). Unanimous 
a££roval was given to a letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, noting the unauthorized 
opening of a branch in Djakarta, Indonesia, but granting consent to its 
continued operation. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Application of Charter New York Corporation. A memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated August 5, 1968, 
and other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an 
application of Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, to 
acquire shares of Central Trust Company Rochester, N. Y., Rochester, 
New York. The Division and the Banking Markets Section both recom-
mended denial, while the recommendations of the New York Reserve Bank 
and the New York Superintendent of Banks were favorable. 
Comments by members of the Board indicated that information 
additional to that already distributed would be helpful in reaching a 
decision. Governor Mitchell requested data with respect to the deposit 
structure of Central Trust; Governor Daane was interested in a compar-
ison between the current application and the previously considered 
v°na denied) application of BT New York Corporation, Suffern, New York 
to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Liberty National 
Bank and Trust Company, Buffalo, New York; and Governor Brimmer 
requested documentation on announced proposals to form new bank hold-
companies in the State. 

O/O / 4 
8/27/68 
-3-
Consideration of the application of Charter New York Corpora-
tion was deferred pending development of the requested information. 
One-bank holding companies (Item No. 2). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated August 23, 1968, from Governor Maisel 
relating to a request from Chairman Patman of the House Banking and 
Currency Committee for information on one-bank holding companies and 
their activities. To verify or supplement information already avail-
able to the Board, Governor Maisel proposed that a letter be sent to 
each bank affiliated with a one-bank holding company. A draft of 
better was attached to the memorandum. 
The proposal was approved unanimously. A copy of the letter 
subsequently sent is attached as Item No. 2. 
Topics for discussion with Federal Advisory Council (Item No. 3). 
Under date of August 26, 1968, there had been distributed a list of 
sugges 
ted topics for discussion at the forthcoming meeting of the 
Federal Advisory Council. At today's meeting inquiry was made as to 
whether it would not be desirable to include among the topics a ques-
tion on the role of the one-bank holding company in the U.S. banking 
®tructure. 
Mr. Cardon observed that an argument could be made for propos-
in8 legislation to the Congress in the near future. If that had been 
^°ne prior to the Council meeting, one type of question would be indi-
Cated, whereas another type would be appropriate if no legislation had 
keen suggested. 

O/W <\ J 
8/27/68 
-4-
Chairman Martin expressed himself in favor of discussing the 
subject with the Council. However, as far as the timing of any legis-
lative proposal was concerned, he would be reluctant to move forward 
until the position of the Comptroller of the Currency was more clear. 
The Board was already on record as favoring application of the same 
requirements to one-bank holding companies as were applied in 1956 to 
multi-bank holding companies, and every effort should be made not to 
force the issue to the point of open conflict with the Comptroller. 
Governor Brimmer stated that in his view the Board should make 
haste. The reasons for the formation of one-bank holding companies 
had changed, and the Board should put itself on record as opposed to 
the new development. There was increasing evidence of activity on the 
Part of banks to take advantage of the existing loophole. 
Governor Maisel commented on the need for defining the kinds 
activities that subsidiaries of bank holding companies should be 
Permitted to perform, regardless of whether legislation was sought at 
this time. He had been under the impression that the Board would delay 
Seeking legislation pending development of support for its position, 
and Mr. Cardon's comment was at variance with that understanding. 
^Dl0n8 the questions to be resolved was whether to include a grandfather 
clause that would establish a cut-off date for divestiture purposes. 
I »»• i 
Chairman Martin stated that he hoped the Board would move 
Cautiously on the matter of requesting legislation. He was not at all 

* > * >H»«f 
O/O /t 
8/27/68 
-5-
sure that such a request at this time would be productive. The Board 
should make every effort to gain the support of the Comptroller, or 
at least not incur his opposition. In recent conversation the Comp-
troller had indicated a willingness to take a hard look at the problem 
and it would be desirable to avoid, if at all possible, a major con-
frontation with the Comptroller or with the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Mr. Cardon agreed that the support of the Comptroller and the 
FDIC were important elements, but he did not know what the prospects 
were for agreement. It seemed to him that there would be an advantage 
getting something before the Congress quickly to form the basis for 
a grandfather clause, whether it was proposed by the Board or someone 
else, and there was a possibility that a bill would be introduced from 
another source. If the bill included a requirement for divestiture 
b y one-bank holding companies of nonbank business acquired only after 
the date of introduction of the bill, that should go a long way toward 
°vercoming objections the Congress had had so far, and it would serve 
to Put the banks on notice. He did not think a bill could be gotten 
through at this session, but the introduction of a bill would clarify 
the Board's position. 
Governor Sherrill remarked that the chances of obtaining legis-
lation would be much greater if the banking agencies stood together. 
The f a c t th a t delay in the introduction of a bill might result in the 

«r> f y i 
i i 
8/27/68 
-6-
formation of additional one-bank holding companies did not seem to him 
as important as achieving a coordinated approach among the bank super-
visory authorities. 
Mr. Cardon agreed that a delay of a few weeks would not matter 
too much if there was a chance of gaining the Comptroller's support. 
With a view to moving forward at the appropriate time, he had drafted 
a bill on which he had asked the Legal Division to comment. It 
appeared to be technically satisfactory, but the Legal Division was 
not in favor of the proposed grandfather clause. Neither did the draft 
bill define the activities in which a subsidiary bank might engage. 
However, an amendment might be worked out to meet this suggestion of 
Governor Maisel. 
Governor Mitchell questioned the need for a grandfather clause. 
The real problem, he thought, lay in defining the area of permissible 
activities, and the Board had gone a long way toward solving that 
problem through its interpretations with respect to operations subsid-
ia ries and loan production offices. 
Following further discussion of the advisability of submitting 
Proposed legislation and the form such a proposal might take, there 
was agreement with a suggestion that Messrs. Cardon and Hexter review 
the situation in the light of comments at today's meeting and prepare 
Memoranda as a basis for further Board consideration. 
It was also agreed to include a question on one-bank holding 
companies among the topics for discussion at the forthcoming meeting 

* > * 
J 
8/27/68 
-7-
of the Federal Advisory Council. A copy of the letter subsequently 
sent to the Secretary of the Council is attached as Item No. 3. 
Request from Bureau of the Budget (Item No. 4). The Revenue 
and Expenditure Control Act of 1968 (Public Law 90-364) reduced Fed-
eral budget outlays for the fiscal year 1969 and prescribed limitations 
on the number of employees in the Executive Branch. Section 201 thereof 
Placed on the Director of the Bureau of the Budget the responsibility 
for assigning vacancies among the departments and agencies. 
By letter dated August 20, 1968, the Budget Director informed 
the Board that the rate at which it might appoint full-time employees 
to permanent positions was limited to 70 per cent of the positions 
becoming vacant on and after September 1, 1968, because of resignation, 
removal, retirement, or death. 
In a memorandum dated August 23, 1968, Mr. Holland commented 
°n the circumstances forming the basis for the assumption of the 
Bureau of the Budget that the Board would be subject to the Government-
Wide limitations and presented the staff's judgment that the provisions 
°f section 201 of the 1968 Act did not apply to Board personnel. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Bureau of the 
Budget that would cite the applicable provision of the Federal Reserve 
Act to substantiate this judgment but indicate the Board's awareness 
the need to keep expenditures to a minimum. 
At today's meeting discussion centered on whether the proposed 
better should go into detail regarding the steps the Board was taking 

O/W / 
8/27/68 
-8-
to curtail expenditures. 
It was the consensus that an expression in 
general terms of compliance with the spirit of the Federal legislation 
would suffice. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Bureau of 
the Budget in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rates. Mr. Holland summarized actions that had been 
taken by Federal Reserve Banks with respect to discount rates, noting 
that seven of the Banks had followed the leaxl of the Minneapolis Bank 
in reducing the discount rate from 5-1/2 per cent to 5-1/4 per cent, 
and that the directors of the four remaining Banks were expected to 
meet within the next few days. 
Governor Maisel stated that the present situation pointed up 
a recurring problem, namely, what action the Board should take in cases 
where some Reserve Banks, subsequent to approval by the Board of a 
change in the discount rate by one or more Reserve Banks, voted to 
reestablish their discount rates without change or at a rate different 
from the one just established. The Board of Governors did not reach 
a policy decision with respect to the discount rate without thorough 
study, and failure by Reserve Banks to fall in line tended to negate 
the effectiveness of the established policy. Accordingly, he suggested 
that the Board set up guidelines for the future. A logical policy for 

3280 
8/27/68 
-9-
the Board to follow would be to reexamine its position upon receipt 
of advice of contrary action by a Reserve Bank's directors and, if 
there had been no change in the basic situation, to determine a dis-
count rate for that Reserve Bank in accordance with the most recent 
policy decision. It should be made clear to the Reserve Banks that 
the Board would not approve the establishment of a rate differing from 
current policy nor would it allow an old rate to continue indefinitely 
as a result of the failure of the Board to act. Governor Maisel then 
handed to the other members of the Board a draft statement embodying 
the policy position he proposed. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he was in sympathy with the sug-
gestion made by Governor Maisel. However, he would not require the 
directors of one Reserve Bank to vote the rate of another Reserve Bank. 
Rather, he would leave it to the directors to vote the rate they con-
sidered appropriate for their District. At the same time, they should 
recognize that if they did not follow suit, they exposed themselves to 
the possibility that the Board of Governors would have to substitute 
its own judgment. He also would favor the imposition of a time limit 
within which each Reserve Bank would be required to act following a 
change in the discount rate of another Reserve Bank. Then, if the 
Reserve Bank differed in its action from the view of the Board of 
Governors, the latter should proceed to review and determine the dis-
count rate for that Reserve Bank. It seemed to him that the essential 

3 2 8 1 
8/27/68 
-10-
issue to be debated related to the interpretation of the use of the 
Board's power to review and determine Reserve Bank discount rates. 
Chairman Martin agreed that the points being made deserved 
consideration. Generally speaking, however, it was difficult to make 
hard-and-fast judgments, and the judgment factor entered into all these 
decisions. The discount function was one to which the directors 
devoted a good deal of time and attention, and it was a healthy situa-
tion to have different points of view available. That was the way in 
which the System had been cast, and he questioned the desirability of 
changing the character of the System. The Board should be very sure 
of its grounds before it exercised its power to review and determine 
a Bank's discount rate. 
Governor Daane said that if men of the highest caliber were to 
be encouraged to serve as Reserve Bank directors, they must be given 
an opportunity to exercise their best judgment. They would not neces-
sarily evaluate a situation in the same light as the Board members, 
and the Board's position would also represent a judgment. To lay down 
hard-and-fast rules relating to the establishment of discount rates 
seemed to him to be unwise. He recalled that several times in the 
Past, when there were differences of opinion, the Board had not chosen 
to present a united front with respect to the discount rate, and it 
had been thought advantageous to have one or two Banks out in front 
or lagging. 

8/27/68 
-11-
Governor Mitchell agreed with the view that it would be a 
mistake to force Bank directors to take a particular action. They 
were entitled to know the basis for the Board's judgment but, having 
been apprised thereof, they should not be pressured into any particu-
lar action. If the Board considered the action of a Reserve Bank's 
directors inappropriate, however, the Board should not accept that 
decision. One change in procedure that he would recommend related to 
the timing of meetings of the boards of directors. If the executive 
committee of a Bank was not empowered to change the discount rate, 
then the full Board of Directors should be available to review the 
situation promptly. Delay in action because of administrative diffi-
culties could be costly to the economy. 
Governor Maisel agreed with Governor Mitchell that directors 
should not be forced to reach a certain decision. They should have 
the right to express themselves. On the other hand, they should not 
e*pect the Board of Governors to accept their decision if it was at 
odds with the most recently announced policy of the Board. The Board 
should not take two actions in different directions within a few days 
each other. 
In further discussion Chairman Martin remarked that the System 
W a s a difficult one to operate. It would be possible to exert influ-
etlCe on the directors, but the Board should be careful not to downgrade 
the job of the directors. Before moving into this particular area, the 

8/27/68 
-12-
Board should be careful that it knew what it was doing. If it got into 
the position of reviewing and determining discount rates, the System 
could become centralized very quickly. To keep the System operating 
required mutual understanding on the part of the Bank directors and 
the members of the Board, and it was important not to tear down the 
structure to achieve some technical gain. 
Governor Maisel said that the basic questions seemed clear to 
him: Was it proper policy for the Board to assume a purely passive 
role with respect to the action of Reserve Bank boards of directors? 
If the Board approved the action of one Bank, was it not establishing 
a policy for the System that should be followed by the other Banks? 
Other members of the Board might feel that different policies at dif-
ferent Reserve Banks would be acceptable, but from his own point of 
view such a division would not be acceptable. 
Chairman Martin then suggested that the problem might be dis-
cussed at the next meeting of the Conference of Chairmen of the Federal 
Reserve Banks. It was a problem with which the System had been wres-
ting over the years, and the heart of the question was whether it was 
» 
Preferable to operate as a system or as a centralized institution. 
There were advantages to both approaches, but the checks and balances 
inherent in the system approach seemed to him the more advantageous. 
It was vital that the Board have among its powers the right to review 
and determine discount rates, but the very fact that the Board possessed 

3 2 8 4 
8/27/68 
-13-
that power made it incumbent upon it to exercise the right as sparingly 
as possible. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that the Board should not take lightly 
the question of reviewing and determining discount rates. He inquired, 
however, where a reasonable benchmark could be found short of exercising 
that power. 
Chairman Martin noted that it was natural, in the present set-
UP of the System, that there would be differences of judgment. The 
heart of the matter was whether operations should be conducted on a 
centralized or a decentralized basis, and he personally had the strong 
conviction that the time was not ripe to change the basic concept of 
the System. 
Chairman Martin then invited the comments of Governor Sherrill, 
who observed that, as the System presently functioned, the Reserve 
Bank directors were allowed leeway in which to express their opposition 
to a particular move without exerting a destructive force. If the new 
discount mechanism went into effect, it was possible that there would 
he need for a time limit beyond which Banks could not delay bringing 
their discount rates into line. If, when that limit was reached, a 
Bank had not acted, he might be willing for the Board to exercise its 
right to review and determine the rate, but he would not do so in the 
Present situation. 
In conclusion, Chairman Martin remarked that the Board held 
'•he power of final authority. But unless Reserve Banks attempted to 

•JOotT" 
8/27/68 
-14-
challenge the Board's authority, it seemed to him that they should be 
encouraged to assume their share of the responsibility in working 
together toward a common goal. 
Guidelines for officer salaries. Governor Mitchell stated 
that the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
Plans had reviewed with the Committee on Personnel of the Presidents' 
Conference certain matters relating to salary administration at the 
Federal Reserve Banks, and as a result had arrived at suggested guide-
lines relating to the basic salary structure applicable to officers 
other than Presidents and First Vice Presidents. He summarized the 
Proposed changes in the guidelines and indicated that they would be 
set forth in a proposed letter to the Chairmen and Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks that would be included on the agenda for consid-
eration by the Board tomorrow. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On August 26, 1968, 
Governor Sherrill approved on behalf of 
the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the President of the Federal Reserve Board Club 
dated August 26, 1968, requesting reimbursement to the Club of $410, 
the cost of redecorating the Recreational Library, and reimbursement 
the cost of paper used in printing various Club publications on 
a continuing basis. 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services recom-
piling the appointment of Lossie Hubbard, Jr., as Laborer in that 
division, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,889, effective 
date of entrance upon duty. 

3 2 8 6 
8/27/68 
-15-
Governor Sherrill today approved on behalf 
of the Board acceptance of the resignation 
of Lance Funs ton, Staff Assistant, Board 
Members' Offices, effective the close of 
business August 30, 1968. 
On the dates shown, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 
On August 26, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Item No 
Letter to Union Trust Company of Maryland, 
5 
Bait imore, Maryland, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish a branch-
in Hlllsboro. 
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Letter to Bank of Lake Village, Lake Village, 
6 
Arkansas, waiving the requirement of six months' 
notice of withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
0n_August 27, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
.Supervision and Regulation 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
7 
York approving the appointment of Harold M. 
Holmes as assistant examiner. 
B^the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Manufacturers Hanover Trust 
8 
Company, New York, New York, granting 
a n extension of time within which to 
establish a branch at 4 New York Plaza. 

3 2 8 7 
>v>oi• 
8/27/68 
-16-
H\ On August 27, 1968 
i t* 
Q 
1 
; T'By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Item No. 
Letter to The Bank of New Orleans and Trust 
9 
Company, New Orleans, Louisiana, granting an 
extension of time within which to establish 
three in-town branches (drive-in facilities). 

B D A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/27/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 27, 1968. 
Mr. Rudolph A. Peterson, President, 
fiank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
san Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Peterson: 
v
 
I n a letter dated August 7, 1968, Mr. La J. Mulkern, 
ice President of Bank of America National Trust and Savings Asso-
CriHti0n (" B ° f 
a d v i s e d t h e B o a^d that B-of A had opened an 
additional branch in Djakarta, Indonesia, at 9 Djl Kunir. This 
ranch was opened without any prior consent of or prior notice to 
he Board of Governors as required by Section 25 of the Federal 
Keserve Act and Regulation M. 
The Board is concerned with the failure to observe the 
Unambiguous requirements set forth in the statute and Regulation. 
t
urthermore, the unauthorized opening of this branch would appear 
o indicate a failure on the part of some of the international 
^ aff 0f y o u r b a n k t o familiarize themselves with the Regulations 
nder which foreign branches operate. The Board assumes that steps 
be taken to avoid any future failure to observe statutory and 
egulatory requirements. 
#
 
I n this particular case, however, the Board grants per-
mission for B of A to continue the operations of the branch at 
jl Kunir, Djakarta, Indonesia. Please inform the Board of Gov-
f
 n°rs, through the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, of any 
uture change in location of this branch in Djakarta. 
f 
. 
A s y°u are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
Q^reign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
I n
r e i8 n assets for the purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort 
view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 

3 2 8 9 
0 Mr. Rudolph A. Peterson 
-2-
vjt?^ i • 
|,'investments on the balance of payments, this permission is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank, Bamerical 
International Financial Corporation and Bank of America, New York, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
it 
4 >'i 
thrc • 
tftte- ho. 
. iUr.c 
> \ \ 
• 
» 
». 
Very truly yours, 
^'lii.:.. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
t'oiv. - • 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary0 

3 2 3 1 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R 5 
item No. 2 
• F THE 
8/27/68 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
Q r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O E N 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 30, 1968. 
To the President of 
the Bank Addressed: 
The Chairman of the Committee on Banking and Currency of the 
S. House of Representatives has requested the Board of Governors to 
furnish certain information concerning one-bank holding companies and 
their related activities. The enclosed form contains the requested in-
formation available to the Board of Governors concerning your bank and 
its related holding company and affiliates. 
So that we may provide an accurate and complete record of the 
material requested, we ask for your inspection of the enclosed form. If 
there is any incorrect or incomplete information on this form, we would 
aPpreclate your making the necessary corrections and additions. 
This 
Can be done directly on the form. 
Parts A and B are self-explanatory; Parts C and D need clarifi-
Cation. Under Part C, the two primary non-bank financial activities of 
the holding company or its affiliates should be listed (savings and loan, 
inance companies, mortgage lending, insurance, etc.). Under Part D, 
two primary non-financial activities of the holding company or affil-
a t es should be listed. 
Included in Parts C and D should be the activi-
t i e s in which the holding company is directly engaged or is indirectly 
engaged through a corporation controlled either by the holding company or 
y a corporation in which control of the holding company ultimately rests, 
third column should indicate whether the relationship is direct or 
indirect. The column headed "SIC code" need not be filled in. 
If you have any corrections or additional information, the 
°ard would appreciate receiving the enclosed form back by September 16, 
time required for submission to the Banking and Currency Committee. 
Self-addressed envelope is enclosed for your convenience. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Closures 
; 

3 2 9 1 
B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
• F THE 
8/27/68 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 27, 1968. 
Mr. Herbert V. Prochnow, 
Secretary, 
Federal Advisory Council, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Herb: 
The Board of Governors suggests the topics 
shown on the attached list for discussion at the meeting 
of the Federal Advisory Council on September 16, 1968, 
and the joint meeting of the Board and the Council on 
" 
• 
September 17. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Attachment. 

Suggested Topics for Discussion at Meeting of 
Federal Advisory Council o n September 16-17, 1968 
Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. 
B. 
B. 
for the fan 
J 
t h e 8 6 n e r a l 
e C° n°» i c 
effect' ColZt 
Kn°" th3t 
the 
t3X 
increase 
has taken 
x e 
^ H ? 
W 0 U i d b e e s P e c i a l l y helpful on the probable 
extent and duration of the steel inventory adjustment 
on 
p l a n r t a i r o f r 0 , n H C U S I : 0 m e r C ° n t a C t S ° f " p i t a l ' i n v e n t 
plans and on indications of any cutbacks resulting from 
reductions in Federal Government purchases or new orders. 
T u n V l ^ 
° U t l 0 ° k f° r t h e C O S t a n d availability of mortgage 
members- 
' r r f S l d e n t i a l construction activity in the Council 
members 
respective regions? 
Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the probable strength of 
business loan demand in the fall? Have there been an?indica-
tions of a further shifting of short-term financing into rte 
commercial paper market, or of corporate intent to repay debt 
through the issuance of long-term securities? 
^ " b ^ V ^ 
C o T " ' S 
V i e W S "garding the liquidity position 
of banks? Does it believe that banks would wish to increase 
holdings of short-term securities substantially if t^ey cou!d 
Obtain funds from CD's or other deposit sources? 
Does the Council believe that banks will significantly increase 
their interest in mortgages and municipal bonds, now that 
interest rates have declined somewhat and there is less pressure 
on current positions? 
pressure 
What is the Council's view regarding current and prospective 
inflows of consumer-type time deposits? Has the recent tax 
increase had any noticeable effect on such flows? 
What are the views of Council members on the recent Board 
to o2 a n d T " 8 
m e m b e, r b a n k S ' u n d e r sPecified conditions, 
to own and operate certain kinds of subsidiary corporations and 
loan production offices? 
a n a 
'he Council's views regarding the appropriate role of 
the'co,1!?? H 1" 8 C O n , p a n i e s i n t h e U-S. banking structure? 
Does 
tht n 
« have comments on a proper legislative framework for 
the operations of such companies? 
D. 

3 2 3 3 
- 2 -
Balance of payments. 
How does the Council appraise the outlook for the remainder 
of the year for (1) demands for Euro-dollar loans at foreign 
branches of U.S. banks, (2) Euro-dollars advanced by branches 
to home offices, and (3) direct borrowings from foreign banks 
by U.S. banks (i.e., not through foreign branches)? 
Are there any particular suggestions that the members of the 
Council would wish to convey to the Board regarding its 
implementation of the Truth in Lending legislation? 
• 
What are the Council's views on monetary and credit policy 
under current circumstances? 

pjgSSte 
r^Lit^f.-' 
BOARD OF G D V E R N O R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RE5ERVE 5YBTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 D 5 5 I 
Item No 
8/27/68 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
August 27, 1963 
The Honorable Charles J. Zwick, 
Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Charlie: 
This is in reply to your letter of August 20, 1968, 
regarding your responsibility for reassigning vacancies among 
departments and agencies of the executive branch pursuant to 
section 201 of the Revenue and Expenditure Control Act of 1968. 
As you know, the Board's expenses are met from earnings 
of the Federal Reserve Banks rather than from appropriated funds. 
In section 10, paragraph 4, of the Federal Reserve Act, the 
Congress provided that the employment of Board personnel "shall 
be governed solely by the provisions of this Act, _/and/ specific 
amendments thereof." This provision of the Federal Reserve Act 
makes it clear that general provisions of law applicable to 
Federal personnel are not to be interpreted as applying to 
Board employees, in the absence of some specific expression of 
Congressional intent to do so. It follows, therefore, that the 
Provisions of section 201 of the 1968 Act do not apply with 
respect to Board personnel. 
Even though the Board is not subject to the provisions 
of the 1968 Act, we recognize the pressing need for all agencies 
of Government to keep expenditures to a minimum, and accordingly 
have carefully reappraised our budget for calendar 1968, 
cancelling or deferring a number of proposed expenditures. 
Sincerely yours, 
<Jiu/ 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

m
m
m
* 
PY 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
R I C H M O N D 
RICHMOND, V I R G I N I A 
23213 
August 26, 1968. 
ii, 
or 
7 U I 
Mr. Woodrow W. Lankford, 
•lc« Pr«»id«nt-Comptroller, 
Onion Trust Coapany of Maryland, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21203. 
ft 
of Oovernors of the Vadcral laitrve lyitia, has 
4 f - -
r 
-t). 
approved tha application of Union Trust Company of 
Maryland, laItinera, Maryland, for a one*year ex-
tern ion of time within which to establish a branch 
on Maryland ioute 404, SUlsboro, Maryland. The 
new expiration date is August 27, 1969. 
Vlease advise us when a definite date for 
opening this office has been determined. 
3 Jr*j 
Item No. 5 
8/27/68 
Sear Woody: 
The Federal leserve Bank of Klchnond, on 
behalf of and under euthority delegated by the Boerd 
Tours very truly, 
/S/ Lloyd W. Bostian, Jr 
for 
John L. Ifoaker, 
•ice President. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST. LOUIS 
P. O. BOX 442 
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 63166 
item No. 6 
• .-v<s >-Vv" 
lV ' I j' : y- • 
8/27/68 
• •• iji v: \:i >n • .• 
August 26, 1968 
Sotrd of Directors 
p®** of Laks Village 
fv0» Box 669 
VtlUge, Arkansas 71653 
^tlsosn: 
^ 
This will acknowledge a letter dated August 23, 1^68, signed by 
Jj^utivo Vice President Carlton, together with the eccompany^rig)reso lu-
ll^1 signifying your intention to withdraw frdiu membership iiN&e Federal 
i,.:?17® System and requesting waiver di the six twonths1 notice of such 
^hdrswai. 
/ 
/ 
J 
K 
/ 
/ 
U 
We, of course, regret your" decision/' However, on behalf of the 
of Governors, acting under delegated authority, this Bank valves 
H r*H*irement of six month** notice of^yithdrawal. Under the provi-
t^^ 
Section 206.10(c) of the Board*a angulation H, your inatltutlon 
fr ^oo^plish termination o£ wambetship at hty time within eight months 
the date that notice of intention to withdraw from membership vaa 
tittT* U p 0 n •urr*n<**r t o this Reserve frank of the Foderal Reserve stock 
t6fUtd t o y™* institution, such stock will be canceled and appropriate 
iimdviu be made thereon. 
' / 
X 
\ 
N. V / 
A, , 
ft 
Instructiohe in respect to/effecting withdrawal of the bank 
pr ^Bberfehip are detailed in letter addreased to your executive vice 
V \ 
< 
\ 
V 
Very truly y6urs, 
\
' 
/ 
/ 
: 
. ' 
J 
/ 
0. 0* Wyrick 
Vice President 
Mr Holland, Secretary, Bd. Of Governors 
«SC:Jt 

O/O ^ 4 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
8/27/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
4 
August 28, 1968 
\ 
i 
•-•„ 
V 
<• 
'I 
i y * 
i'.h 
V 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of August 23, 1968, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Supervision and Regulation, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointment of Harold M. Holmes as an 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York. Please advise the effective date of the 
appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Hob 
3 2 9 8 
• •84) 
Item No. 8 
8/27/68 
AUG 2 7 1968 
Paul A. P.ens311 
pisior Vico Procidont 
'"-nufacturerc Hanover Trust 
Company 
0 Park Avonuo 
Scv York, IIct; Yorli 
10022 
Ccar Kr* Rcsnell: 
We refer to your lottor dated August 21, 1963, 
"guesting an extension of time within which your bank 
establish n branch at 4 New York Plaza, IJow York, 
York, fornorly designated ao 111 Broad Street, Hew 
Kcv York, a3 approved by the Board of Governors on 
September 22, 1966. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
^efloral Reserve System, the Federal Reserve Bank of Hew 
-ork, acting under delegated authority, approves your 
?e<iu;;ct and e::tendo to March 22, 19<>9> the time within 
ffclch your bank nay establish a branch at the above location. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the 
^ranch is established and opened for business, giving 
tlio effective date of opening, the name, if any, by which 
** will bo known, and the official postal address, in-
ciuding the sip code number. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by 
signing end roturning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Thoman 
Assistant Vice President 
cBltd 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
OF A T L A N T A 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 
3 0 3 0 3 
August 27, 1968 
Item No. 
8/27/68 
Board of Directors 
The Bank of Nov Orleann 
and Trust Company . 
New Orleans, Louisiana 70150 
Gentlemen: 
On behalf of the Board-of Governor? of 
. 
. . • 
i i 
- 
, ' 
the Fudcrul Reserve System, acting under djly dele-
i. ; 
• - : . ; ;t; y ' 
i; 
• , 
gated authority, this Bank approves an extension of 
jfOUX" hiici-i.lj wj i i i iid i '• 
., 
thjj 
the time within vhioh your Broadmoor, Gentilly, anc* 
oa Ly ; 
, - y. 
• ' 
. t 
Lakoview facilities ra£y be established to March f>, 1969. 
I^/^GC: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reaerve Syatem 
/ 
