MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 1, 1969 

2 i i ; o 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, July 1, 1969. A meeting of the available members of the 
Board was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, 
Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Schober, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
1/ Attended afternoon session only. 

2151 
7/1/69 
- 2 -
Messrs. Doyle and Lynch of the Legal 
Office 
Messrs. Fleming, Goodfellow, and Shuter 
of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Actions taken at this session were subject to ratification when 
a quorum was present. 
The following items were approved unanimously after consideration 
of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Marine Midland International 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, grant-
ing consent to investments, directly or 
indirectly, in certain German concerns. 
Letter to Manufacturers National Bank of 
2 
Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, granting per-
mission for the establishment of a branch 
in Nassau, Bahamas. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
3 
Chicago regarding compliance of two stock 
purchase plans of Walgreen Company with 
the provisions of section 207.4(a) of 
Regulation G, Securities Credit by Persons 
other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers. 
With respect to Item No. 2, Governor Robertson explained his 
favorable vote by saying that in this instance there would be no 
services supplied under contract and a resident manager would be 
appointed to handle the Nassau operations. Further, the applicant 
bank had no other foreign branch. 

7/1/69 
-3-
Marine Corporation. There had been distributed drafts of an 
order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on June 3, 1969, 
of the application of The Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
to acquire shares of The First State Bank, West Bend, Wisconsin. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
are attached under Item No. 4. 
Examiners' Conference. After consideration of a memorandum 
from Mr. Leavitt dated June 25, 1969, the Board approved the holding 
of a conference of representatives of Bank Examination Departments of 
the Federal Reserve Banks in Washington on October 6 through 8, 1969, 
and authorized payment of the cost of a dinner to be given during the 
conference. 
Definition of competitive factor report terms. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated June 25, 1969, from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation, the Legal Division, and the Banking Markets 
Section recommending that the definition of the standard terms used by 
the Board in making reports on the competitive effects of proposed 
mergers be released to the public. Attached to the memorandum was a 
proposed statement for publication in the Federal Register. 
The recommendation was approved unanimously. A copy of the 
statement, as issued, is attached as Item No. 5. 
Supplement to Regulation Z. There had been distributed a draft 
of supplement to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, that would define the 

21 S3 
7/1/69 
- 4 -
rules and procedure to be followed by States seeking exemption for 
classes of credit transactions within those States from the Federal 
truth in lending disclosure requirements. 
At the beginning of the discussion, Governor Maisel stated that 
his reaction to the draft was negative. To him, the presentation gave the 
impression that the Board was attempting to be obstructive rather than 
cooperative. 
In response to a request by Governor Robertson for specifics, 
Governor Maisel touched upon some of the points to which he took excep-
tion, and members of the staff explained the reasoning behind the 
suggested approach, noting in some instances that the language was 
designed to answer questions raised by State representatives. 
Governor Maisel then stated that his main problem had to do 
with the manner in which the term "substantially similar" was inter-
preted. As he understood it, transactions within a State should be 
exempt from Federal truth in lending requirements if the State law 
imposed requirements "substantially similar" to those imposed by Federal 
law. It seemed to him that the supplement, as drafted, was more stringent. 
Governor Robertson said that the supplement envisaged fairly 
uniform requirements throughout the country, with some flexibility. If 
a State imposed higher penalties, for instance, it was not proposed to 
rule them out. However, requirements generally below the minimum des-
cribed in the Federal statute would not suffice. The protective measures 

2151 
7/1/69 
- 5 -
and penalties of the Federal statute were intended as a standard. To 
accept less would appear to deviate from the protection intended by 
the Congress. 
Governor Mitchell said it seemed to him that the Congress 
deliberately took a middle course. Through appropriate use of the 
term "substantially similar" in the supplement, a desirable degree of 
flexibility would be retained. 
There followed some discussion of types of variations that 
might occur from State to State, and the interpretations that might 
be called for in the light of apparent Congressional intent, following 
which Mr. Shay described the changing attitudes that had prevailed in 
the process of enacting the Federal legislation. 
Governor Maisel then commented on the history of Federal-State 
relationships and expressed the view that the States should be con-
sidered co-equals with the Federal Government in the area of truth in 
lending legislation. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that one of the aims of 
the legislation was to achieve a degree of uniformity throughout the 
United States in the matter of truth in lending requirements and that 
to be exempt from Federal regulation a State should have legislation 
substantially similar to the standard set by Federal law. 
Governor Mitchell suggested the inclusion in the proposed 
supplement of a prefatory note that would help to make the purpose of 
the supplement clear. 

o i r r 
< o ± 5 5 
7/1/69 
- 6 -
Governor Robertson noted that the laws of the few States 
interested thus far in seeking exemptions appeared generally to meet 
or go beyond the Federal requirements. He summarized the points on 
which there were some differences and areas in which liberal interpre-
tations would appear to be in order. He pointed out that certain States 
were pushing for Board action on requests for exemption, possibly 
because of pressure from groups within the States that preferred to 
deal with State rather than Federal authorities. 
Governor Maisel reiterated that his basic question went back 
to the intent of the Congress with respect to Federal-State relation-
ships. He would assume that the Congress had acted in the light of 
the normal Federal-State relationship unless there was specific indica-
tion to the contrary. 
Governor Robertson and members of the staff then responded to 
a number of questions on other points, one of which related to the 
problems State laws might pose for firms that operated on a nationwide 
basis. During this discussion, several suggestions were made for 
changes to meet problems seen in the proposed supplement, with particular 
emphasis on changes that would make the tone of the language more accept-
able to State officials. 
It was understood that the staff would rework the document in 
light of this morning's discussion, that Mr. Shay would search the 
record for evidence of Congressional intent, and that the matter would 
be considered further this afternoon. 

2 1 S £ 
7/1/69 
- 7 -
Survey of business capital spending. Under date of June 30, 
1969, the Office of the Secretary had distributed a telegram from 
President Hickman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland relating 
to a proposal from an Administration source that a telephone survey of 
business capital spending plans be conducted by the Federal Reserve Banks. 
It was contemplated that 10 to 15 of the largest firms in each District 
would be contacted. Mr. Holland had brought the matter to the attention 
of the Board on Friday, June 27. 
Governor Robertson said that Mr. Partee had participated in a 
discussion with other Government officials on the subject and that 
another meeting was scheduled for later today. 
There was agreement with Governor Mitchell's suggestion that 
the matter be referred to Mr. Partee to work out on whatever basis seemed 
most appropriate after further negotiation. 
New York salary structures. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated June 30, 1969, from the Division of Personnel Admin-
istration relating to a request from the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York for (1) adjustment of the clerical and nonclerical salary struc-
tures at the head office and the clerical salary structure at the 
Buffalo Branch; (2) an increase in the special grade 16 maximum from 
$23,500 to $26,000; and (3) a new salary range for full-time physicians 
with a minimum of $22,000 and a maximum of $30,000. The Division 
recommended favorably. 

' 
> A C " i ' i 
7/1/69 
- 8 -
Unanimous approval was given to the Division's recommendation. 
Attached as Item No. 6 is a copy of the letter subsequently sent to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:15 p.m. with the following attendance: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Schober, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Messrs. Fleming and Garwood of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Supplement to Regulation Z. Governor Robertson commented on 
the changes reflected in a revised draft of supplement to Regulation Z, 
Truth in Lending, copies of which had been distributed prior to this 
afternoon's meeting. Among other points, he noted that the criteria 

21.58 
7/1/69 
- 9 -
for State exemptions were now cast generally in terms of provisions of 
State law "substantially similar" to those of the Federal law. Also, 
a prefatory note had been drafted, but he was not sure that such an 
introduction was desirable. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that the proposed changes seemed to 
him to set the proper tone with respect to standards. However, he was 
now of the view that it might be preferable to work the prefatory material, 
with a little expansion, into the press release. 
After some discussion, it was agreed that a brief explanation of 
the supplement would be shifted from the proposed prefatory note to the 
press release, and suggestions were made as to various points to be 
covered as well as to the language in which they should be couched. 
The discussion then reverted to the questions of Federal-State 
relationships and Congressional intent, and Governors Robertson and 
Mitchell reiterated views they had expressed during the morning session. 
They agreed that the approach used in the supplement would provide rea-
sonable latitude for the use of discretion in determining whether or 
not State legislation met the appropriate standards. 
Mr. Shay expressed the view that interpretation of the Federal 
law along the lines of the proposed supplement could be supported by 
the legislative history, and he substantiated his statement by reference 
to a document he had compiled, copies of which were then distributed. 

o 1 t 
7/1/69 
-10-
In further discussion, Mr. Cardon commented on possible 
Congressional reaction, noting among other things that the climate 
had changed during the progress of the legislation through the House 
and Senate and that he did not sense any support in the end for an 
earlier inclination to defer to State law for the regulation of truth 
in lending. 
Unanimous approval was then given to Supplement II to Regula-
tion Z, effective July 1, 1969, and the issuance of the related press 
release. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under 
Item No. 7. 
In this connection, Governor Maisel commented that he still 
felt, as a member of the Board concerned with the whole area of the 
relationships between Federal and State laws, that the Board should 
adopt as relaxed an attitude as possible toward this problem. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by the available members 
of the Board at the morning session of today's meeting, as recorded in 
the minutes thereof, were ratified by unanimous vote. 
Discount rate. The Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago had again voted, on June 26, 1969, to establish a rate 
of 7 per cent (instead of 6 per cent) on advances to and discounts for 
member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, with 

2 1 U 0 
7/1/69 
-11-
comparable adjustments in related rates, subject to review and determina-
tion by the Board of Governors. 
After discussion, the Board voted unanimously to disapprove the 
proposed rates. A copy of the letter informing the Reserve Bank of the 
Board's action is attached as Item No. 8. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. 1 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
7/1/69 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A O O R E S 3 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 1, 1969 
Marine Midland International 
Corporation, 
250 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10017 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of May 29, June 3, and June 12, 
1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for your wholly-owned sub-
sidiary, Marine Midland Overseas Corporation ("MMOC"), New York, New 
York, to purchase and hold up to 100 per cent of the shares of Marine 
Midland G.m.b.H. ("MMGH"), a holding company to be formed in Germany, 
at a cost of approximately $2,750,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In this 
connection, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of such 
shares by MMOC in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in 
the provisions of paragraph 5(c) of Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act and in Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of MMGH by MMOC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That MMOC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of MMGH if MMGH at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if MMGH establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Germany or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to MMOC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, MMOC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of MMGH as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by MMGH 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if MMGH were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

2 1 6 2 
Marine Midland International 
Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this lette.- so far as it 
relates to restrictions on loans granted by MMGH in Germany, in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Memorandum of Association, Articles 
of Association, and By-Laws of MMGH. 
The Board also grants its consent for MMOC to continue to 
hold the shares of MMGH after MMGH acquires approximately 15 per 
cent of the partnership capital of Burkhardt 6c Company, Essen, 
Germany, at a cost of approximately $2,750,000, provided such acqui-
sition is made within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board also grants consent for MMOC to purchase and 
hold, either directly or indirectly through MMGH, up to 30 per cent 
of a holding company ("KKB Holding Company"), at a cost of approx-
imately $4,485,000, which is to be formed in Germany and which will 
own as its sole holding up to 51 per cent of Kundenkreditbank 
Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien ("KKB"), Duesseldorf, Germany, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. In this connection, the Board also approves the pur-
chase and holding of such shares by MMOC or MMGH in excess of the 
applicable limitations set forth in the provisions of paragraph 5(c) 
of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and in Section 211.9 (b) 
of Regulation K. In the event the acquisition of KKB Holding Company 
is effected by MMGH, the Board grants consent for MMOC to purchase 
the shares of MMGH at a cost of approximately $7,235,000. 
The above consents are given with the same understanding 
regarding the financing of foreign credits and investments by MMOC 
as contained in the Board's letter of April 23, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2163 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N • R S 
Item No. 2 
D F T H E 
7/1/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 1, 1969 
Manufacturers National Bank 
of Detroit, 
151 West Fort Street, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48231 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit, 
Detroit, Michigan, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch at 243 Bay Street, 
Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such branch subject 
to the provisions of such Section and Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States or for obtaining deposits that would otherwise be 
placed in the United States. It is also understood that there is 
to be no contact with the local public at the branch. In view of 
the unusual character of this operation, the foregoing permission 
is granted subject to continuing special observation and review 
by the Board and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified. 
The foregoing permission is also granted on the condition that 
adequate information covering the branch's operations will be 
maintained at your head office and will be available to the Board 
and its accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly 
notified of any modification in the branch's methods of operation. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before July 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 

21M 
Manufacturers National Bank 
of Detroit 
-2-
Under Sect ion 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the 
States of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt 
from any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 
and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not subject 
to the reserve requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose 
of these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States 
banks to compete abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, 
it has long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal 
Reserve System to discourage deposits by United States residents at 
foreign branches of United States banks unless such deposits have 
been placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose in connection 
with foreign or international transactions outside the United States, 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investments 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank, and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2 1 t 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
7/1/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R O 
July 2, 1969 
Mr. Ward J. Larson, 
Vice President, General 
Counsel and Secretary, 
Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago, 
230 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Larson: 
This is in response to your letter of March 3, 1969, inquiring 
whether two stock purchase plans of Walgreen Company comply with the pro-
visions of § 207.4(a) of Regulation G. That section permits credit to be 
Extended to employees by the employing corporation (or other member of the 
corporate family) without regard to the "margin rate," if the credit complies 
with certain requirements. 
Walgreen Company offers two types of stock purchase plans, one 
for "key" employees and the other for "general" employees. The plans are 
described in a document entitled Post-effective Amendment No. 7 to Registra-
tion Statement No. 2-20739, filed with the SEC, and a letter of April 14, 
1969, from Walgreen to Mr. Gram of your staff. 
As amended, the key employees plan involves the purchase of stock 
°n credit to be repaid by salary deductions and bonus payments. Under the 
tables submitted in the above documents, it would appear that except for 
the question of stockholder approval, discussed below, such plan complies 
with the repayment and other requirements of the regulation. 
As amended, the general employees plan involves a three-year 
repayment of a loan for the entire amount of shares purchased. This plan 
also, except for stockholder approval, appears to meet the requirements of 
the regulation. 
Section 207.4(a) requires that in order to qualify for the credit 
exemption, such plans be approved by the issuing corporation's stockholders. 
It is understood that for technical reasons Walgreen was unable to present 
the plans to its stockholders at their annual meeting in January, 1969. 

Mr. Ward J. Larson 
- 
2 
-
2 1 6 6 
Walgreen intends to offer these plans for ratification by stockholders at 
their next meeting in January, 1970. In the meantime, they wish to begin 
extending credit under the plans as amended. Walgreen has represented to 
you that any credit extended under the plans before such approval is obtained 
will comply with all the restrictions described in the above documents. 
Since the plans appear to comply in all other respects with the 
requirements of § 207.4(a), and it is anticipated that stockholder approval 
will shortly be secured, the Board does not object to the proposed course 
of action. It would be appreciated if your Bank would determine, however, 
that Walgreen does actually obtain stockholder approval at the earliest 
convenient date. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

* 
—
.
— 
2167 
Item No. 4 
7/1/69 
\ 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
THE MARINE CORPORATION, 
1 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The First State Bank, West Bend, 
1 
Wisconsin. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The Marine Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisi-
tion of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The First State 
Bank, West Bend, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Wisconsin 
Commissioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. 
He advised the Board that he would take no action to disapprove of 
the application. 

21.68 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 22, 1969 (34 Federal Register 6749), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
time shall be extended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 1st day of July, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, 
and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2U13 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE MARINE CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST STATE BANK-, WEST BEND, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
The Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The First 
State Bank, West Bend, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
Applicant controls 13 banks with aggregate total deposits 
1/ 
of approximately $582 million. 
Bank, operating one office in the 
city of West Bend in Washington County, Wisconsin, has total deposits 
of approximately $11 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
y 
Banking data are as of December 31, 1968, unless otherwise noted, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company forma-
tions and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

2170 
- 2 -
i 
aPpllcatiori was given to the Wisconsin Commissioner of Banking, arid 
his views and recommendation were requested. He stated that he would 
take no action to disapprove of the application. 
. 
-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
t 
or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 
of banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board 
aPprove a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section 
of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to 
tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
Public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meet-
ing 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 
10 largest banking organizations in Wisconsin, which include eight 
hank holding companies, control approximately $3 billion of total 
hank deposits in the State or about 39 per cent of such deposits. 

2171 
-3-
The three largest, all holding companies, control about 30 per cent. 
The largest controls almost 17 per cent. Applicant, the second largest, 
controls 6.8 per cent. After acquisition of Bank, Applicant- would still 
rank second and would control an additional .1 per cent of total bank 
deposits in the State. Thus, acquisition of Bank would have only a 
negligible effect on Applicant's market share. 
The Milwaukee Standard MeCfopolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA") 
includes Milwaukee, Ozaukee, Waukesha, and Washington counties. 
Applicant ranks third among the five holding companies in the SMSA 
and controls 13.8 per cent of deposits in the area. The addition of 
Bank to Applicant's system would increase that percentage to 14.1. 
On the basis of total deposits, Bank is the second largest 
of 11 banks located in Washington County. The county's largest bank, 
with approximately $26 million of deposits and control of 31 per cent 
of county deposits, is also located in West Bend. Germantown Marine 
Bank (deposits of less than $5 million), a subsidiary of Applicant, 
is also located in Washington County but is about 16 miles southeast 
of Bank. Consummation of the proposal herein would give Applicant 
control of about 18 per cent "of deposits in the county. 
Bank's primary service area is represented as forming a 
five by five mile square with 
the city of West Bend in the center 
and about one mile of farming and recreational area on each side of the 
city. West Bend is approximately 33 miles northwest of Milwaukee. 
Bank's primary service area is estimated to contain 24,500 persons. 

In that area, Bank holds less than 24 per cent of the deposits held 
by the three banks that compete in the area. The largest bank in 
that service area holds close to 55 per cent of the deposits in the 
area, and the third competitor (located outside the area, about seven 
wiles northwest of Bank) holds close to 22 per cent of such deposits. 
The data presented reflect that Applicant's acquisition of 
Bank would not have a substantially adverse impact upon the degree 
of concentration of banking resources in the State, nor in any of 
the relevant service areas. On the record before the Board, it is 
concluded that the proposed affiliation would not result in a 
monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking i:. any 
relevant area. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of 
Applicant's proposal on existing or potential competition, the 
Board finds that these considerations present no bar to approval 
of the application. Applicant states that no service area of any 
Applicant's subsidiaries overlaps Bank's service area, and that 
deposit and loan overlap between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries 
is negligible. No banking alternative in the service area would be 
eliminated by consummation of the proposed acquisition. 
As stated earlier, Applicant's subsidiary nearest to Bank 
is 16 miles away. Although an intervening distance of 16 miles 
does not preclude the development of competition, there appears to be 

little likelihood of any significant competition developing between 
West Bend and Germantown banks, particularly as the Germantown area 
growth seems to be related to the northward growth of Milwaukee, 
whereas the West Bend area apparently has developed as an industrial 
area independent of the Germantown and Milwaukee areas. Inasmuch as 
Bank appears to be a weak competitor in an expanding community, con-
summation of the proposed application should improve Bank's competitive 
ability, and stimulate competition in Bank's service area, without 
having any undue adverse effect on competitors. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed trans-
action would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a 
monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in any relevant 
section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiaries is 
generally satisfactory; and management is considered competent. 
Future prospects for the group appear favorable. 
Bank's prospects are also considered favorable and its 
management and financial condition are judged to be satisfactory. 
However the record shows that Bank's management has been overly 
conservative in the operation of Bank; and the advanced ages of the 
two principal executive officers (77 and 70) indicate that successor 
management will be needed in the near future. Bank would benefit 

21 
-6-
ftora the additional management strength and aggressive operation that 
Applicant could provide. The Board concludes that considerations 
under the banking factors are consistent with and lend some weight 
towards approval. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - West 
Bend, a manufacturing community with a population of approximately 
16,500, has shown steady commercial and residential expansion. 
Several of the larger companies that started in this city have an 
international business. Applicant reports that the West Bend banks 
have not served the community's banking needs adequately. It appears 
that the credit needs of the principal industrial businesses in the 
area exceed the loan limits of the banks located in or near West Bend 
and that some local credit needs are being served by banks in other 
cities. Applicant proposes to effect more aggressive credit policies 
for Bank and a program of loan participations with other banks in 
Applicant's system without the loss to Bank of deposit balances. 
Applicant also proposes to assist Bank to install accounts receivable 
financing, foreign trade banking, savings account on-line computer 
service, check credit service and improved fiduciary services; to 
Provide trained personnel skilled in various types of credit adminis-
tration; to assist in studying and providing needed changes in 
Parking facilities and drive-in and walk-up windows; and to introduce 
more attractive rates on certificates of deposit and passbook time 
deposits. It appears that Applicant can and will assist Bank to 

become a stronger and more aggressive competitor and to serve the 
area more fully. The local availability of improved and expanded 
services as proposed would be beneficial to the area as well as to 
Bank. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community served by Bank provide weight in favor of approval of the 
application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
1,-1969. 

2176 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
5 
7/1/69 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER. A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 250--MISCELLANEOUS INTERPRETATIONS 
Bank Mergers 
§250.182 Terms defining competitive effects of proposed mergers. 
The Board has developed and used for some time certain terms 
to describe the competitive effect of the proposed mergers in reports 
competitive factors requested of the Board by the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)). Under the Act, a Federal banking 
agency receiving a merger application must request the views of the 
°ther two Federal banking agencies and the Department of Justice on 
the competitive factors involved. The terms and their definitions 
a r e as follows: 
(a) The term "monopoly" is used to indicate the Board's 
view that the proposed transactions must be disapproved in accordance 
w*th paragraph (5)(A) of section 1828(c) of 12 U.S.C. 
(b) The term "substantially adverse" is used to indicate 
the Board's view that the proposed transaction would have such actual 
Potential anticompetitive effects as to forbid approval unless 
Nearly outweighed" as specified in paragraph (5)(B) of section 1828(c) 
o f 12 U.S.C. 

(c) The term "adverse" is used to indicate the Board's view 
that in appraising the public interest to determine whether the 
proposal should be approved or disapproved, the actual or potential 
adverse anticompetitive effects thereof would be such as to necessi-
tate definite consideration as one of the factors covered in the last 
sentence of paragraph (5) of section 1828(c) of 12 U.S.C. 
(d) The terra "slightly adverse" is used to indicate the 
Board's view that the actual or potential anticompetitive effect of 
the transaction would be of little importance. 
(e) The term "no adverse competitive effects" is used to 
indicate the Board's view that the situation with respect to actual 
potential anticompetitive effects need not weigh against the 
application. 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i). Interprets 12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 1st day of July 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(seal) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
Item No. 6 
7/1/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
Q F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 3, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
The Board of Governors has approved all requests for 
salary structure changes, effective July 3, 1969, contained in 
your letter of June 10, 1969. However, approval of the Buffalo 
structure is granted with the understanding that the application 
of survey results to the Buffalo structure will be reviewed 
thoroughly with the New York Bank at the time of the next salary 
survey at that Branch. 
It is contemplated that a Board repre-
sentative will participate in this review. 
Salaries should be paid to employees within the limits 
specified for the grades in which their respective positions are 
classified. 
All employees whose salaries are below the minimum 
of their grades as a result of the structure increase should be 
brought within appropriate ranges by October 1, 1969. 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 7 
7/1/69 
For immediate release 
July 2, 1969 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued the attached rules and procedures to be followed by States 
wishing to regulate credit disclosures under their own laws rather than 
the Federal statute on Truth in Lending. The rules and procedures 
constitute Supplement II to the Board's Truth in Lending Regulation Z 
which went into effect July 1. 
The law states that the Board shall exempt from Federal Truth 
in Lending requirements "any class of credit transactions within any 
State if it determines that under the law of that State that class of 
transactions is subject to requirements substantially similar to those 
imposed" by the Federal law, and there is "adequate provision for 
enforcement." 
State laws, if substituted for the Federal statute, must: 
1. Cover all real property transactions regardless of the 
amount but may exclude other consumer credit transactions exceeding 
$25,000. 
2. Require disclosures and notices in the form, content and 
terminology prescribed in Regulation Z. 
3. Require disclosure of the finance charge and the annual 
Percentage rate, determined as prescribed in Regulation Z. 

4. In a class of transactions which normally involves 
security interests in real estate, provide a customer the right to 
rescind certain credit transactions as provided in the Truth in 
Lending Act. 
5. Require creditors to deliver disclosures and notices in 
circumstances and on time schedules like those prescribed in Regulation Z. 
6. Include definitions and rules of construction that give 
the same meaning and have the same application as those prescribed in 
Regulation Z. 
Exemptions from Federal jurisdiction may be granted only with 
respect to the disclosure and rescission requirements of the Truth in 
Lending Act and Regulation Z, 
Under the Act, advertising of credit must remain subject to 
Federal jurisdiction. 

2181 
SUPnLEMENT II TO JlE3ULATION Z 
TRUTH IN LENDING 
(Section 226.12 - Supplement) 
Procedures and criteria under which any State may apply for exemption 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of § 226.12 
(a) Application—Any State may make application to the Board, 
Pursuant to the terms of this supplement and the Board's Rules of 
Procedure (12 CFR 262), for a determination that, under the laws of that 
State, 
a ny class of transactions - within that State is subject to 
requirements substantially similar to those imposed under Chapter 2 of 
the Act -2/ and that there is adequate provision for enforcement of such 
requirements. Such application shall be: 
(1) Made by letter addressed to the Board signed by the Governor, 
the Attorney General, or any official of the State having responsibilities 
under the State laws which are applicable to that class of transaction 
and supported by the documents specified in paragraph (b); and 
(2) Made with respect to any class of transactions described in 
subparagraph (c)(1) under which creditors extend or arrange to extend, 
0 r in connection with which creditors offer to extend or offer to arrange 
t o extend, consumer credit within that State. 
\J 
Any reference to State law in Supplement II includes a reference to 
any regulations which implement State law and formal interpretations thereof. 
2J 
References to "class of transactions" in Supplement II, as applicable, 
include two or more of such classes of transactions. 
3/ Any reference to Chapter 2 of the Act or any section thereof in 
Supplement II includes a reference to the implementing provisions of 
this part and the Board's formal interpretations thereof. 

2182 
- 2 -
(b) Supporting Documents—The application shall be accompanied by: 
(1) A copy of the full text of the laws of the State which are 
claimed by the applicant to impose requirements substantially similar to 
those imposed under Chapter 2 of the Act with respect to the class of 
transactions within that State. 
(2) A comparison of each requirement of State law with the correspond-
ing requirement of Chapter 2 of the Act, together with reasons to support 
the claim that applicable requirements of State law are substantially 
similar to all requirements imposed under Chapter 2 of the Act (including 
the provisions of § 125) with respect to that class of transactions, and 
to demonstrate that any differences are not inconsistent with the require-
ments of Chapter 2 of the Act and that there are no other effective State 
laws which are inconsistent with the requirements of Chapter 2 of the Act 
with respect to that class of transactions. 
(3) A copy of t!\e full text of the laws of the State which provide 
for enforcement of the State laws referred to in subparagraph (1) of this 
Paragraph. 
(4) A comparison of the provisions of State law with the provisions 
§ 108, § 112, § 130, and 5 131 of the Act, together with reasons to 
support the claim that such State laws provide for: 
(i) Administrative enforcement of the State laws referred to in 
subparagraph (1) of this paragraph which is tantamount to the provisions 
for enforcement under 3 108 of the Act; 
(ii) Criminal liability for willful and knowing violation with 
Penalties substantially similar to those prescribed under § 112 of the Act; 

2183 
- 3 -
(iii) Civil liability for failure to make required disclosures 
substantially similar to those provided under § 130 and § 131 of the Act, 
except that more severe penalties may be provided; and 
(iv) A statute of limitations that prescribes a period, with respect 
to civil liability actions, of substantially similar duration as that 
provided under paragraph (e) of § 130 of the Act. 
(5) A statement identifying the office designated or to be designated 
to administer the State laws referred to in subparagraph (1) of this para-
graph, together with complete information regarding the fiscal arrangements 
for administrative enforcement (including the amount of funds available or 
to be provided), the number and qualification of personnel engaged therein, 
and a description of the procedures under which such State laws are to 
be administratively enforced, including administrative enforcement with 
respect to Federally chartered creditors. - 
The foregoing statement 
should include reasons to support the claim that there is adequate pro-
vision for enforcement of such State laws. 
(c) Criteria for Determination--The Board will consider the following 
criteria along with any other relevant information in making a determination 
°f whether the laws of a State impose requirements substantially similar to 
4/ All transactions within an exempt class of transactions in which a 
Federally chartered institution is a creditor shall be treated as a separate 
class of transactions not subject to the exemption, and such Federally 
chartered creditors shall remain subject to the requirements of the Act 
and administrative enforcement by the appropriate Federal authority under 
5 108 of the Act, unless it is established to the satisfaction of the 
Board that appropriate arrangements have been made with such Federal 
authorities to assure effective enforcement of the requirements of State 
laws with respect to such creditors. 

2184 
- 4 -
those imposed under Chapter 2 of the Act with respect to any class of 
transactions within that State, and whether there is adequate provision 
for enforcement of such laws: 
(1) A class of transactions shall be: 
(1) Transactions under open end consumer credit plans which are 
subject to the requirements of § 127 of the Act; 
(ii) Consumer credit sale transactions not under open end credit 
plans which are subject to the requirements of § 128 of the Act; 
(iii) Consumer loan transactions not under open end credit plans 
which are subject to the requirements of § 129 of the Act; or 
(iv) Any significant class of credit transactions which is deter-
mined by the Board to be readily susceptible to treatment as a separate 
class of transactions consistent with the purpose of the Act and without 
undue likelihood of impairing enforcement. Such class of credit trans-
actions may be identified by reference to the type of creditor or the 
type of subject matter of the transaction, or both. 
(2) In order for requirements of State law to be substantially 
similar to requirements imposed under Chapter 2 of the Act, the provisions 
°f State law - shall require that: 
(i) Definitions and rules of construction, as applicable, import the 
same meaning and have the same application as those prescribed under § 226.2 
5/ This paragraph is not to be construed as indicating that the Board 
would consider adversely any additional requirements of State law which 
a*e not inconsistent with the purpose of the Act or the requirements imposed 
under Chapter 2 of the Act. 

2185 
- 5 -
(ii) Each class of transactions shall include all consumer credit 
transactions in that class in which a security interest in real property 
is or will be retained or acquired irrespective of the amount financed, 
but may exclude other transactions where the amount financed exceeds 
$25,000; 
(iii) Creditors make required disclosures and deliver required 
notices in form, content, and terminology as prescribed in this part; 
however, references to Federal law in the form of notice required under 
5 226.9(b) may be changed so as to refer to State law; 
(iv) Creditors make disclosures of the finance charge determined 
as prescribed under 5 226.4; 
(v) Creditors make disclosures of the annual percentage rate 
determined as prescribed under § 226.5; 
(vi) Customers shall have a right to rescind certain transactions 
as provided under 3 125 of the Act and shall also be afforded remedies 
in event of rescission as provided under that section; —^ 
(vii) Creditors make delivery of required disclosures and notices 
in the circumstances and at a time no later than as prescribed under 
S 226.7, § 226.8, and 5 226,9, as applicable; 
6/ No class of transactions which normally involves a security interest 
in real property which the customer uses or expects to use as his principal 
residence will be exempted unless that class of transactions is subject 
to the right of rescission under State law as provided under 5 125 of the 
Act. However, any other class of transactions which in the opinion of 
the Board does not normally involve any such security interest may be 
conditionally exempted although it is not subject to the right of rescis-
sion under State law, the condition being that those transactions within 
the class which do involve any such security interest shall remain subject 
to the provisions of $ 125 of the Act. In such cases, the right to rescind 
shall exist until midnight of the third business day following the date 
°f consummation of that transaction or the date of delivery of the dis-
closures required under § 226.9 and all other material disclosures required 
under State law, whichever is later. 

2186 
-6-
(viii) If the Comparative Index of Credit Cost is permitted or reqiiired 
t 0 be disclosed, it is determined and disclosed as prescribed under § 226*11; 
and 
(ix) Creditors comply with general disclosure requirements prescribed 
accordance with paragraphs (a), (d), (e), and (i) of § 226.6, and any pro-
vision in State law which permits the supplying of additional information or 
exPlanations shall be subject to restrictions as provided under the first 
sentence of § 226.6(c). 
(3) In determining whether provision for enforcement of State law 
^terred to in subparagraph (1) of paragraph (b) is adequate, consideration 
w i U be given to the extent to which, under the laws of the State, provision 
i s made for: 
(i) Admini strative enforcement, including necessary facilities, 
Personnel and funding; 
(ii) Criminal liability for willful and knowing violation with penalties 
8ubstantially similar to those prescribed under § 112 of the Act; 
(iii) Civil liability for failure to make required disclosures 
8uhstantially similar to those provided under § 130 and § 131 of the Act, 
except that more severe penalties may be provided; and 
(iv) A statute of limitations with respect to civil liability of 
substantially similar duration as that provided under § 130 of the Act. 
<d) Public Notice of Filing and Proposed Rule Making--In connection with 
9 n y aPPlication which has been filed in accordance with the requirements of 
Para graphs (a) and (b), notice of such filing and proposed rule making will be 

2187 
-7-
Published by the Board in the Federal Register, arid a copy of such application 
will be made available for examination by interested persons during business 
hours at the Board and at the Federal Reserve Bank of each Federal Reserve 
District in which any part of the State of the applicant is situated. A period 
time will be allowed from the date of such publication for the Board to 
receive written comments from interested persons with respect to that appli-
cation. 
(e) Exemption from Requirements of Chapter 2 — If the Board determines 
° n the basis of the information before it that under the law of a State any 
class of transactions is subject to requirements substantially similar to those 
imposed under Chapter 2 of the Act and that there is adequate provision for 
enforcement, the Board will exempt such class of transactions in that State 
from the reauirements of Chapter 2 of the Act in the following manner and 
Subject to the following conditions: 
(1) Notice of the exemption will be published in the Federal Register, 
,a the Board will furnish a copy of such notice to the official who made 
aPplication for such exemption and to each Federal authority responsible for 
adn\inistrat:ive enforcement of the requirements of Chapter 2 of the Act. 
(2) The appropriate official of any State which receives an exemption 
s^all inform the Board within 30 days of the occurrence of any change in its 
telated law (or regulations). The report of any such change shall contain 
CoPies of the full text of that change together with statements setting forth 
tlle information and opinions with respect to that change as specified in 
8ubParagraph s (2) and (4) of paragraph (b). The appropriate official of any 
St 
a t e which has received an exemption shall file with the Board from time to 
tirne such reports as the Board may require. 

2188 
-8-
(3) The Board will inform the appropriate official of any State which 
receives an exemption of any subsequent amendments of Chapter 2 of the Act 
(including the implementing provisions of this part and the Board's formal 
interpretations) which might call for amendment of State law, regulations, or 
formal interpretations. 
(f) Adverse Determination—(1) If after publication of notice in the 
federal Register as provided under paragraph (d) the Board finds on the basis 
o f the informati on before it that it cannot make any favorable determination 
connection with the application, the Board will notify the appropriate 
state official of the facts upon which such findings are based and shall afford 
that State a reasonable opportunity to demonstrate or achieve compliance. 
(2) If, after having afforded the State such opportunity to demonstrate 
°r achieve compliance, the Board finds on the basis of the information before 
*t that it still cannot make any favorable determination in connection with 
application, the Board will publish in the Federal Register a notice of 
its decision with respect to such application and will furnish a copy of 
Such notice to the official who made application for such exemption. 
(g) Revocation of Exemption—(1) The Board reserves the right to 
revoke any exemption if at any time it determines that the State law does not 
fact impose requirements which a re substantially similar to those imposed 
Under Chapter 2 of the Act or that there is not in fact adequate provision for 
enforcement. 
(2) Before revoking any State exemption, the Board will notify the app*o-
^riate State official of the facts or conduct which in the opinion of the Board 
Warrant such revocation and shall afford that State such opportunity as the 
®°ard deems appropriate in the circumstances to demonstrate or achieve 
c°mPliance. 

v 
w, 
2189 
-9-
(3) If, after having been afforded the opportunity to demonstrate or 
achieve compliance, the Board determines that the State has not done so, 
notice of the Board's intention to revoke such exemption shall be published 
as a notice of proposed rule making in the Federal Register. A period of 
time will 
be allowed from the date of such publication for the Board to 
receive written comments from interested persons with respect to the proposed 
rule making. 
(4) In the event of revocation of such exemption, notice of such 
revocation shall be published by the Board in the Federal Register, and a copy 
°f such notice shall also be furnished to the appropriate State official and 
to the Federal authorities responsible for enforcement of requirements of 
Chapter 2 of the Act, and the class of transactions affected within that 
state shall then be subject to the requirements of Chapter 2 of the Act 
and subject to administrative enforcement as provided under § 108 of the Act. 

21 SO 
B C A R D OF D D V E R N D R B 
Item No. 8 
7/1/69 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
July 
1969 
Mr. Franklin J. Lunding, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Frank: 
This letter is to inform you that the Board voted on 
July 1, 1969 to disapprove the pending increase in your Bank's 
di scount rate to 7 per cent which was established by your board 
of directors on June 26, 1969. This disapproval, of course, is 
also applicable to the rates established under the last para-
graph of section 13 and under section 10(b). 
The Board's action was taken for reasons similar to 
those communicated to you in conjunction with the Board's 
previous decision on June 25, 1969, to disapprove a then pend-
ing increase in your Bank's discount rate. In light of prevail-
ing conditions and continuing uncertainties in financial markets, 
the Board has deemed it advisable to disapprove the higher rate 
rather than to hold it in abeyance. This Board decision is again 
being taken without prejudice to any future consideration of such 
discount rate action as your board of directors may regard as 
appropriate. 
Sincerely 
(signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
cc: Mr. Scanlon 
