MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 20, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy 
actions required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 
of the Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item m this 
set of minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the 
subject referred to below: 
Page 2 Amendment to Regulation Y, 
Bank Holding Companies. 

105 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 20, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant.to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Miss Key, and Mr. Wilbanks, 
Technical Assistants, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Plotkin, Senior Attorney 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
liberty State Bank & Trust, Hamtramck, Michigan, approving an issuance 
°f capital notes. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 

106 
1/20/72 
-2-
The Board approved unanimously the application of Atlantic 
Bancorporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of The First 
State Bank and Trust Company, Eustis, Florida, and authorized issuance 
°f an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
a s Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of North Platte 
Corporation, Torrington, Wyoming, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of The Citizens National Bank of Torrington, 
anc* authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago responding to a request from counsel for Continental 
Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago for an interpretation 
Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Car-
rying Margin Stocks. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Investment adviser services by bank holding companies. At the 
feting 
on January 18, 1972, the Board held a preliminary discussion of a 
Proposal made by the Legal Division in a memorandum of January 14 that 
^egulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, be amended to permit bank holding 
companies to serve as investment advisers to investment companies, includ-
lug open-end companies (mutual funds), and that an interpretation be issued 
v"'\ ^ frC^t.' 'Z-ii "M i » : 
ft •tl"rrf. fs t .-G'1' * P •;*:•; rv: '<. s Ac t 
with respect to many of the issues that had been raised when the proposal 
t o permit such activity was published for comment and at the hearing 
^eld in November 1971. Drafts of an amendment and an interpretation 
W er e attached. 

107 
1/20/72 
-3-
The draft interpretation, which clarified the scope of the 
activity to be permitted, served as a vehicle for today's discussion. 
-Lt was brought out that in general, whereas open—end investment com-
panies offered and redeemed their shares continuously, closed-end compa-
nies issued new securities only infrequently and did not stand ready to 
redeem them. 
A major theme of comments was a comparison between the two types 
°f investment companies with respect to the range of services permitted, 
risks of conflict of interest, and maintenance of the separation of 
securities business and banking business called for by the Glass-Steagall 
Many of the comments in this area were in the nature of testing 
the validity of the staff's view that permitting investment adviser ser-
vices for both open and closed-end investment companies would not be in 
c°nflict with the Supreme Court's decision in Investment Company Institute 
v- Camp. 
The staff indicated that it had started with the premise that, 
since the Board several years ago had concluded, with respect to a leg-
islative proposal to permit banks to offer no-load funds, that the bene-
fits to the public of increased competition would outweigh arty adverse 
results, it might be assumed that the Board would want bank holding com-
pany subsidiaries to perform investment adviser services to the maximum 
extent permissible under the Glass-Steagall Act. 

108 
1/20/72 
-4-
It was pointed out that, although the terms of activity proposed 
to be permitted were geared to the typical situation, there were many 
atypical situations. For example, one or two closed-end funds had filed 
registration statements to issue additional securities continuously. 
Discussion of this point led to agreement upon a strengthening of lan-
guage in the interpretation to exclude services for closed-end investment 
companies that were primarily or frequently engaged in the issuance, 
sale, and distribution of securities. 
Governor Brimmer posed a series of questions bearing upon the 
restrictions that might be placed upon frequency of issues, the relative 
size of fees paid to the managers of open-end and closed-end funds, 
and whether the proposed scope of activity provided sufficient separation 
o f managing investments, which was allowed, and underwriting and selling 
shares in the fund, which was not allowed. It appeared to him that only 
a thin wall was provided between the two functions. Although a bank 
Elding company subsidiary would be prohibited from underwriting a fund's 
securities, it might be possible to arrange to have the underwriting 
handled by an institutional cousin. 
After further discussion the Board approved the amendment to 
Regulation Y, effective February 1, 1972, and the interpretation. Governor 
dimmer dissented from this action in so far as it applied to open-end 
investment companies. Attached under Item No. 5 are copies of the press 
release announcing the Board's action, the amendment to Regulation Y, and 
tlle interpretation. 

109 
1/20/72 
-5-
First Chicago Corporation. In memoranda of October 4, 1971, 
' U. .. »J ; ,; — 
" 
. 
" " 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
^commended approval of the application of First Chicago Corporation, 
Chicago, Illinois, to acquire shares of I. J. Markin & Co., also of 
xT!2, , 
: .. • -i' • 
ri • I • 
. • 
. ,, 
Chicago, a mortgage banking firm. After consideration of the case at 
zh,. 
• 
, 
... 
; 
. , 
the meeting on December 15, 1971, three members of the Board voted for 
aPproval and three for denial. Governor Sheehan had taken office as a 
Member of the Board earlier this month, and question had been raised 
whether the Board might wish to reopen the case. 
f*^: 
'i':' <i o T • r : > 
t-'j-j ir •> 
• i •'• + i-j. i . • <vt • f '.>,"• r •> 
K .•» ^ ij c "••'*'i- 1 
A motion to reconsider the case was made and carried, after 
X 
r-.d £oc uiie r.,t 
ce;.« 
, 
k ,v/c '• .. 
"L . -Li 
which the staff summarized the principal elements of the application 
ar*d responded to a number of questions. 
. id iv vicmojjancluni c?" .j.'-untnry '.s 1^72, cLo 'JiviL1-. -n or :Ai;?t*j:vX''. :m 
After discussion, the application was approved, Governors 
iv.ion 
*io;u'ovai -vr u«e 
iCbzioii <:•!: 
u>. 
Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer dissenting. It was understood that appro-
Priate documents would be prepared to reflect the views expressed. 
Firstbrook Corporation. On January 6, 1972, the Board discussed 
application of Firstbrook Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to become 
a hank holding company through acquisition of shares of Northbrook Trust 
& Savings Bank, Northbrook, Illinois. The Division of Supervision and 
Re8ulation 
had recommended denial in a memorandum of December 28, 1971. 
^ction was deferred pending exploration of questions that were raised. 
SuPplementary information was furnished by the Division in memoranda of 
January 12 and 18, 1972. 

ri 
; 
CO 
" 
1/20/72 
-6-
-
The Board unanimously denied the application and authorized 
V.; 
J-ssuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 6. 
Associated Bank Services. In a memorandum dated January 7, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
o f the application of Associated Bank Services, Inc., Green Bay, Wis-
consin, to acquire shares of Neenah West National Bank, Neenah, Wis-
' S^-Jj JS1 
•• 
• . 
• 
°nsin. The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had recommended denial. 
The Board approved the application, Governor Robertson dissenting 
It* 
was understood that appropriate documents reflecting the decision 
w°uld be prepared for the Board's consideration, and that a dissenting 
statement would also be prepared. 
' 
.. 
;: ; .. 
u M- . 
. 
. 
. 
• • 
t) ? .« • ..... . , . 
. 
> 
. 
. 
. . ., 
• 
• 
In a memorandum of January 7, 1972, the Division of Supervision 
V 
' - " 
*' > /"» f ' L. 
i. ' ; . LJ '.. - ~< ..:• • J < . • ' •)••"'.. 
and Regulation recommended approval of the application of Associated Bank 
^e^vices, Inc., Green Bay, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of American 
National Bank of Green Bay. 
After a brief discussion, action was deferred. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

SOfCpy-. 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
111 
Item No. 1 
1/20/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 20, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Liberty State Bank & Trust 
Hamtramck, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
Section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $500,000 
subordinated capital debentures by Liberty State Bank & Trust, 
Hatntramck, Michigan, as proposed in President Salkowski's letter 
December 29, 1971, with enclosures, to the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f Chicago. Approval is granted with the understanding that the 
Sale of these capital debentures will be consummated within 
Sl*-months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 2 
1/20/72 
± ± £ 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Atlantic Bancorporation, Jacksonville, Florida, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
®hares of The First State Bank and Trust Company, Eustis, Florida 
("Bank"), 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
a n d all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant presently controls 19 banks with aggregate 
dePoaits of $687 million, representing 4.7 per cent of total com-
^ e l a l bank deposits held by Florida's banks. (All banking data 
a r e as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company formations 
9 n d acquisitions approved through November 30, 1971.) Applicant's 
ac<luisition o f B a n k ) wi th deposits of approximately $21 million, 
V,°uld not represent a significant increase in Applicant's share 
° f ^tal deposits in the State. 

-2-
113 
Bank Is the larger of two banks headquartered in Eustis 
a n d the second largest of 10 banks located in Lake County, the 
relevant market, wherein it holds 13.2 per cent of the market's 
total deposits. However, the fifth and eighth largest of the 
c°unty banks are closely affiliated and together hold 16,3 per 
C G n t of market deposits, and two other county banks, as subsidiar-
les o f the fifth and sixth largest banking organizations in the 
e*. 
a t e, together control 28,5 per cent of market deposits. Bank 
<*oes 
banks 
not compete significantly with any of Applicant's subsidiary 
» the nearest of which is located in Sanford, 26 miles east 
Eustis. It also appears that consummation of this proposal 
*°uld not eliminate any meaningful potential competition due, 
m°ng other factors of record, to the distances involved, the 
nutnber o f intervening banks, and the restrictions placed on 
inching by Florida law. 
^tion 
ver 
Based upon the record, the Board concludes that consum~ 
of the proposed acquisition would have no significant ad-
S e effect on competition in any relevant area. The financial 
0tUlitions a n d managerial resources of Applicant and its subsidiary 
^anks are regarded as satisfactory and prospects for Applicant's 
P appear favorable. The financial resources and future pros-
Pecta 
of Bank are generally satisfactory and favorable; however, 
^cant's ability 
to provide Bank with management strength as 
e<1 lends some weight toward approval of this application, 
vonvenience and needs aspects of the proposal also 'lend < , •; 

-3-
Veight toward approval since Applicant proposes to increase Bank's 
Ending capabilities, and to provide Bank with counseling regard-
trusts, investments, credit and overall operations of the Bank. 
l s the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be 
the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
C°nsummated ^ 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
(J^ k 
e °f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
^ this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
January 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
tSEAL") 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
for this action; Chairman Burns and Governoro Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and SW.ehan. 

Item No. 3 
1 / 2 0 / 7 H 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NORTH PLATTE CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
North Platte Corporation, Torrington, Wyoming, has applied 
for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)),for the formation of a bank holding company 
through acquisition of 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) 
o f the voting shares of The Citizens National Bank of Torrington, 
Tor*ington, Wyoming ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
9 1 1 comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
e*Press purpose of acquiring Bank which has aggregate deposits of 
tely $14 million. (All banking data are as of June 30, 
The proposed transaction would effect a corporate ownership 
°f fiank, and all shareholders of Bank are being accorded equal 
tteatment. Since Applicant has no present operations or subsidiaries, 
It aPpears that consummation of the proposal would not significantly 
• 
Qff 
e c t existing or potential competition, nor have an adverse effect 
On t. 
other bank in the area. 
The banking considerations are consistent with approval of 
aPPlication. 
T h e financial and managerial resources of Bank and 
Prospects are regarded as generally satisfactory. Applicant has 

-2-
116 
n°t commenced operations; thus, its financial condition, management 
and prospects are dependent on those of Bank. Applicant's projected 
Garnings appear to be sufficient to service its debt without undue 
strain on Bank's income. The acquisition herein is not likely to 
^ave any significant immediate effect on the convenience and needs 
the community. However, the new and expanded services which 
applicant proposes to institute should ultimately benefit the public; 
and this aspect of the proposal lends some weight toward approval of the 
aPPlication. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction would 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
th 
e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
fed 
G r al Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
January 20, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
^ ^oting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^tchell 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan, 

±r 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
1/20/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OrFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 20, 1972 
James Nash, Esq. , 
Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago, 
230 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60604 
Dear Mr. Nash: 
This refers to your letter of November 23, 1971, with 
which you submitted a request under the same date from Mayer 
Brown & Piatt Counsel for Continental Illinois National Bank 
and Trust Company of Chicago ("Bank") that the Board of Governors 
interpret the applicability of its Regulation U, "Credit by Ban.s 
for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks to a set 
of facts summarized below. 
Bank proposes to extend two credits (credits "A" and "B") 
to National City Lines, Inc. ("Customer"). Both credits « U 
extended at the same time, but each will be evidenced by a separate 
agreement. Credit A is for $10 million for the purposeofprov.drnE 
working capital and secured by the customer's covenant that it will 
maintain a certain relationship between Credit A borrowings and the 
book value of equipment owned by Customer and its consolidated 
subsidiaries. Credit B is also for $10 million may be used to 
Purchase margin stock, and will be secured by stock. 
market value of the stock securing Credit B will beat least enough 
to meet the margin requirements of the current Supplement to the 
•regulation. 

118 
James Nash, Esq. 
2 
With respect to the foregoing set of facts, counsel poses 
(a) Are Credit A and Credit B two separate credits? 
(b) Would Credit A and Credit B continue to be two 
separate credits if Credit A had the benefit of 
cross-over rights to the pledged shares? 
It is implicit, when subsections (1) and (3) of 
section 221 3(n) of Regulation U are read together, that a bank 
extend purpose and non-purpose credits to the same customer 
Subsection (1) requires that the bank segregate and identify all 
the collateral used to secure any purpose credit extended to the 
customer 
In the case of Bank's purpose credit here under con-
sideration (Credit B), stock collateral having a market value oi 
$22,222 000 on the date on which the loan is made would support 
such $10 000 000 loan under the 55 per cent requirement of the 
current Supplement to the regulation, and would have to be segrej 
and so identified. Subsection (3) of the same section requires 
that the bank "shall in good faith require as much collateral no 
so identified as the bank would require if it held neither the 
[purpose] . . . credit nor the identified collateral." In the 
Present case, counsel for Bank represented to the Board tnat 
Bank would in the ordinary course of its business be prepared to 
extend the non-purpose credit (Credit A) to Customer, on the.bas 
of the described covenants, even though it held neither Credit B 
nor the stock which will secure Credit B. 
two questions, i.e. 
"i^urtmg SUCH lluuil. 
' 
, i . . . ^ 
the non-purpose loan without obtaining the pledge of addition 
collateral aside from the stock, in an amount sufficient to s 
the non-purpose credit. 

James Nash, Esq. 
- 3 -
In regard to the question whether Bank may hold 
cross-over rights from Credit A to the stock securing Credit B, 
it is the view of the Board that such cross-over rights would 
not negate the separate identity of Credit A, if the collateral, 
including the aforementioned covenants securing the non-purpose 
loan (Credit A) is such that Bank would have made that loan 
independently of the existence of the purpose loan (Credit B) 
and its identified stock collateral. 
It would be greatly appreciated if you would transmit 
the enclosed copy of this letter to Bank's counsel. 
Very truly yours, 
r/ 
/y 
— 
// 
... v 
J Tynan Smith, 
Secretary to the Board. 
Enclosure 

Item No. 5 
1/20/72 
For immediate release 
January 24, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced an amendment to its regulations permitting bank holding com-
panies to act--under the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company 
Act--as investment advisers to investment companies, including mutual 
funds. The Board said, however, that a holding company engaging in 
^ i s activity may not, among other things: 
1. Sell or distribute securities of any investment company 
for which it acts as investment adviser. 
2. Act as investment adviser to an investment company that 
has a name similar to the name of the holding company or any of 
its subsidiary banks. 
3. Purchase for its own account securities of any investment 
company for which it acts as investment adviser; purchase, at its 
sole discretion, any such securities in a fiduciary capacity; 
extend credit to any such investment company; or accept the 
securities of any such investment company as collateral for a loan 
to purchase securities of the investment company. 
In an amendment to its Regulation Y relating to bank holding 
companies, the Board said it has determined that acting as investment 
a^viser to companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 
is a n activity "so closely related to banking or managing or con-
trolling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. 

.2. 
1 2 1 
Last year, the Board determined that acting as investment 
°r financial adviser--including adviser to a mortgage or real estate 
investment trust and furnishing economic or financial information--is 
a Permissible activity for bank holding companies, subject to Board 
aPproval in individual cases. Effective February 1, this provision of 
Regulation Y will read as follows (new language underlined): 
"Acting as investment or financial adviser, including 
(i) serving as the advisory company for a mortgage or a real estate 
investment trust; (ii) serving as investment adviser, as defined in 
•^fel&O) of the Investment Company Act of 1940. to an investment com-
^S3LXegistered under that Act; and (iii) furnishing economic or fi-
l i a l information." 
Acting as a management consultant is not regarded by the 
as part of this activity and whether to propose this as an 
Qctivity closely related to banking is still under consideration. 
The scope of the activity announced today is spelled out in 
a n interpretation that accompanies the amendment. In general, the 
Boa*d said a bank holding company may exercise all functions customarily 
Permitted 
an investment adviser except to the extent limited by the 
atlUng Act of 1933 (frequently called the Glass-Steagall Act). 
The Board interpreted the Glass Steagall Act as prohibiting 
° bank holding company from sponsoring, organizing or controlling a 
mut^al f u n d # 
xhe Board does not believe, however, that this restriction 
9 pPUes to closed-end investment companies as long as they are not pri-
or frequently engaged in the issuance, sale and distribution of 
C i t i e s . 
A copy of the amendment, together with the accompanying inter-
action.
is attached.

122 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Reg. Y] 
PART 225—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanking Activities of Bank Holding Companies 
"By notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal 
Agister on August 25, 1971 (36 F.R. 16695), the Board of Governors 
Proposed to add to the list of activities that it has determined to 
b e closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks 
t* 225.4(a) of Regulation Y) the following: "serving as investment 
adviser to an investment company registered under the Investment 
Company Act of 1940". A hearing on this proposal was held on 
M e m b e r 12, 1971, after a notice thereof was published in the 
^deral Register on October 29, 1971 (36 F.R. 20779). 
Following consideration of the comments received and the 
**cord of the hearing, the Board has amended § 225.4(a), effective 
February 1, 1972, to add the new activity, with a minor modification 
language from that proposed, to its list of permitted activities. 
An accompanying interpretation expresses the Board1s views 
questions, which arose during the course of its considera-
tion of this matter, concerning the scope of the new activity and the 
applicability of certain provision*, of 
junking Act of 1933 
Stat. 162) thereto. 

w m m . 
123 
-2-
The text of the amendment to § 225.4(a) reads as follows: 
5 225.4 Nonbanking activities. 
(a) Activities closely related to banking or managing or 
controlling banks. * * * The following activities have been deter-
mined by the Board to be so closely related to banking or managing 
controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto; 
* * * 
(5) acting as investment or financial adviser, including 
(i) serving as the advisory company for a mortgage or a real estate 
Investment trust; (ii) serving as investment adviser, as defined in 
S ^(a)(20) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, to an investment 
company registered under that Act; and (iii) furnishing economic or 
financial information;** 
Effective date: February 1, 1972. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
. 
For an interpretation relating to the scope of the activity 
described in (ii) see 12 CFR 225.125. Acting as a management 
consultant is not regarded by the Board as within this activity (5). 
Aether to propose expanding activity (5) to include management 
consulting is under consideration by the Board. 
I 

124 
TITLE 12—-BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
! 
[Reg. Y] 
i 
PART 225—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanklng Activities of Bank Holding Companies 
5 225.125 Investment Adviser Activities. 
(a) Effective February 1, 1972, the Board of Governors 
tended § 225.4(a) of Regulation Y to add "serving as investment 
adviser, as defined in § 2(a)(20) of the Investment Company Act of 
to an investment company registered under that Act" to the list 
o f activities it has determined to be so closely related to banking 
managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto, 
^ring the course of the Board's consideration of this amendment 
®eVeral questions arose as to the scope of such activity, particularly 
i n view of certain restrictions imposed by sections 16, 20, 21 and 32 
0 f the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 24, 377, 378, 78) (sometimes 
*e*erred to hereinafter as the "Glass-Steagall Act provisions") and 
t h e United States Supreme Court's decision in Investment Company 
•J^itute v. Camp, 401 U.S. 617 (1971). The Board's views with respect 
t o some of these questions are set forth below. 
(b) It is clear from the legislative history of the Bank 
H°lding Company Act Amendments of 1970 (84 Stat. 1760) that the Glass-
Steagali Act provisions were not intended to be affected thereby. 

Accordingly, the Board regards the Glass-Steagall Act provisions and 
the Board's prior interpretations thereof as applicable to a holding 
company's activities as an investment adviser. Consistently with 
tl*e spirit and purpose of the Glass-Steagall Act, this interpretation 
a?plies to all bank holding companies registered under the Bank Holding 
c°Qpany Act irrespective of whether they have subsidiaries that are 
member banks. 
(c) Under § 225.4(a)(5), as amended, bank holding companies 
(vhich term, as used herein, includes both their bank and nonbank 
may, in accordance with the provisions of § 225.4(b), 
* c t as investment advisers to various types of investment companies, 
EUch as "open-end" investment companies (commonly referred to as 
"mutual funds") and "closed-end" investment companies. Briefly, a 
^tual fund is an investment company which, typically, is continuously 
*n8aged in the issuance of its shares and stands ready at any time to 
^ e e m the securities as to which it is the issuer; a closed-end 
^Vestment company typically does not issue shares after its initial 
Or&anization except at infrequent intervals and does not stand ready 
t o redeem its shares. 
(d) The Board intends that a bank holding company may 
all functions that are permitted to be exercised by an 

inve8tment adviser" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, except 
t o the extent limited by the Glass-Steagall Act provisions, as 
Ascribed, in part, hereinafter. 
(e) The Board recognizes that presently most mutual funds 
a t e organized, sponsored and managed by investment advisers with which 
t h e y a r e affiliated and that their securities are distributed to the 
P U b l i* by such affiliated investment advisers, or subsidiaries or 
filiates thereof. However, the Board believes that (i) the Glass-
Ste 
agall £ c t provisions do not permit a bank holding company to perform 
such functions, and (ii) it is not necessary for a bank holding 
0tnpany to perform all such functions in order to engage effectively 
i n the described activity* 
(f) In the Board's opinion, the Glass-Steagall Act provisions, 
interpreted by the U.S. Supreme Court, forbid a bank holding company 
sPonsor, organize or control a mutual fund. However, the Board does 
believe that such restrictions apply to closed-end investment com-
bes as long as such companies are not primarily or frequently engaged 
the issuance, sale and distribution of securities. In no case, 
hovjevA 
er> should a bank holding company act as investment adviser to an 
Vestment company which has a name that is similar to, or a variation 
of t, 
* 
name of the holding company or any of its subsidiary banks. 
(g) In view of the potential conflicts of interests that may 
» a bank holding company and its bank and nonbank subsidiaries 
*hould n°t (i) purchase for their own account securities of any invest-
^nt company for which the bank holding company acts as investment 

127 
-2-
adviser; ( a ) purchase in their sole discretion, any such securities in 
a fiduciary capacity (including as managing agent); (iii) extend credit 
t o any such investment company; or (iv) accept the securities of any 
8uch investment company as collateral for a loan which is for the pur-
Pose of purchasing securities of the investment company, 
(h) A bank holding company should not engage, directly or 
^directly, in the sale or distribution of securities of any investment 
C0®pany f o r which it acts as investment adviser. Prospectuses or sales 
llterature should not be distributed by the holding company, nor should 
®ny Such literature be made available to the public at any offices of 
t h e Elding company. In addition, officers and employees of bank 
should be instructed not to express any opinion with respect 
t o advisability of purchase of securities of any investment company for 
V l U ch the bank holding company acts as investment adviser. Customers 
0f banks i n a b a n k holding company system who request information on an 
Solicited basis regarding any investment company for which the bank 
b°lding company acts as investment adviser may be furnished the name 
Qnd address of the fund and its underwriter or distributing company, but 
the name8 of bank customers should not be furnished by the bank holding 
»an> 
8hould 
c°*Pany t o the fund or its distributor. Further, a bank holding company 
in 
not act as investment adviser to a mutual fund which has offices 
any building which is likely to be identified in the public's mind 
the bank holding company. 

128 
-2-
(i) Acting in such capacities as registrar, transfer agent, 
°r custodian for an investment company is not a selling activity and is 
Permitted under § 225.4(a)(4) of Regulation Y. However, in view of 
Potential conflicts of interests, a bank holding company which acts both 
as custodian and investment adviser for an investment company should 
care to maintain at a minimal level demand deposit accounts 
0f the investment company which are placed with a bank affiliate and 
should not invest cash funds of the investment company in time deposit 
accounts (including certificates of deposit) of any bank affiliate. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8).) 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEll 
1/20/72". 
FIRSTBROOK CORPORATION 
"<•••••'. 
t i 
. 
i ' 
Order Denying Formafcioh of Bfethk Holding Company 
Firstbrook Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, has applied for 
the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Northbrook 
Trust & Savings Bank, Northbrook, Illinois ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in accor-
dance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and views 
expired. The Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant is a newly-formed organization and has no operating 
history, upon acquisition of Bank ($31.5 million of deposits), Applicant 
x*°uld control less than .1 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in 
Illinois. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1971.) As the proposed 
transaction represents a sale of individuals1 ownership of Bank to a 
pre-sently nonoperating holding company, consummation of the transaction 
V° U l d not eliminate any existing or potential competition and would not 
in any increase in the concentration of banking resources in any 
Levant area. 
* 
Bank is presently in satisfactory financial condition with 
^uate capital and satisfactory management. Its location in a growing 
Coinmunity about 25 miles northwest of Chicago should Insure favorable 

130 
-2-
although growth may not continue at past rates due to the recent 
France of two other banks into the area previously served only by Bank, 
Despite future growth prospects of Bank, however, the proposed method 
o f financing the acquisition of Bank, would, if utilized, adversely affect 
financial condition and prospects of both Applicant and Bank. 
Applicant, upon consummation of the proposed transaction, 
°uld incur acquisition debt in the amount of $4,500,000 resulting 
n a debt-to-equity ratio of over 250 per cent. Applicant proposes 
rePay the debt with interest in ten years with increasing annual 
P inciPal payments beginning in 1973. Based upon the expected rapid 
Elation growth and development of the llorthbrook area and Bank's 
8 t Earnings history, Applicant projects Bank's annual earnings growth 
at a r ate that x^ould enable Applicant to service its acquisition debt 
ft 
no more than a 50 per cent dividend payout from Bank, 
However, Bank's present adequate capitalization derives 
f,. 
the restraint Bank has exercised in past declarations of divi-
j 
s* Between 1966 and 1970, dividends averaged approximately 19 
cent of current earnings (whereas Applicant projects 50 per cent 
Service the debt). The projected average annual earnings growth 
fate m 
m ay be unrealistic; it is higher than that experienced by Bank 
een 1961 and 1970 when Bank was the only bank located in its ser-
vice 
a r ea. In fact, despite the favorable growth trend of the community 
Bank serves, the growth rate of Bank's earnings has declined from 
25.4 n 
Pe* cent in 1969 to 9.5 per cent in 1971. If earnings growth 
to keep pace with Applicant's projections, the percentage of 
nSs paid out as dividends of Bank would have to be increased in 

131 
-3-
°*der t 0 s e r v i c e Applicant's acquisition debt, in turn, retarding Bank's 
CaPital growth. Finally, it is not clear that Applicant, even if its 
Ejections proved accurate, could properly service its acquisition 
and meet its expenses. 
Beside imperiling Bank's future capital growth, the high 
level of acquisition debt contemplated by this application would 
ric*er Applicant1 s ability to meet any emergency capital needs of 
^ank should such arise. These factors weigh heavily against approval 
this application. It should be emphasized, however, that these 
^actors in no way reflect upon the present financial soundness of Bank, 
n°r upon its future financial condition absent consummation of the 
ttl£Jtant proposal. 
The banking needs of the residents of Bank's service area 
appear to be adequately served by existing institutions. The added 
Ability of a holding company structure to enable Bank to better 
G e t future demands lends some weight for approval. 
Under all of the circumstances of this case, the Board concludes 
th 
the acquisition debt involved in this proposal presents adverse 
cumstances bearing on the financial condition and prospects of Applicant 
^ Sank. Such circumstances are not outweighed by any procompetitive 
actors or by circumstances relating to the convenience and needs of the 
Unities to be served. Accordingly, approval of the application is 
not i the public interest and it should be denied. 

_4-
132 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for 
the reasons summarized above. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 20, 1972. 
(8BAL) 
,\Y 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
v°ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
tchellj Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 
