Minutes for 
May 26, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
adv ise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
i 
l M J 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
/
M
l 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
J L 
_ 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Uf 

2 1 1 9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
j/ 
• 
/ • > ' 
System on Friday, May 26, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
$ C a s; f ,, ' ' 
,••.•• 
' r-
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Partee, Williams, Eckert, Bernard, Ettin, 
Fry, Keir, and Kelty of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Hersey, Katz, Reynolds, Wood, Baker, 
Bryant, Gemmill, and Pizer of the Division 
of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard commented on developments in 
the Government securities market, Mr. Fry discussed bank reserve utiliza-
tion and financial and monetary indicators, and Mr. Baker reviewed activ-
ity in the gold and foreign exchange markets. Copies of charts and 
tabular material distributed in connection with today's review have 
b een placed in the Board's files. 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2 1 2 0 
X 5/26/67 
-2-
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman and Kenyon then 
withdrew from the meeting and Governor Robertson advised the Board of 
certain developments in the market that had come to his attention. After 
this report Governor Maisel withdrew from the meeting and the following 
staff members entered the room: 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Hexter, Associate General Counsel, and 
O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Hart, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Keir, Chief, Capital Markets Section, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on May 22, 1967, and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 
and Dallas on May 25, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
h."<Y > . • ' : 
. 
. . • 
Approved letters. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective item numbers indicated, 
Were approved unanimously after consideration of background material 
<"5 * fir f -. . 
that had been made available to the members of the Board: 

2121 
X 5/26/67 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
1 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment of 
a branch in Media and an investment in bank 
premises, and commenting on the bank's pro-
posal to increase its capital funds. 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
2 
Pennsylvania, granting an extension of time 
to establish a branch in Upper Dublin Town-
ship, Montgomery County. 
With respect to Item No. 1, Governor Brimmer observed that 
Fidelity Bank had indicated an intention to increase its capital by 
issuing debentures. He inquired whether this plan was still firm in 
light of current money market conditions. Mr. Leavitt having stated 
that there was no indication of any change in the bank's intentions, 
at Governor Brimmer's suggestion a paragraph was added to the letter 
stating that the proposal to increase capital funds appeared most desir-
able and that the Board hoped the program could be completed as planned. 
Revenue bond underwriting. In December 1966 the United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia granted plaintiffs' motion 
for summary judgment in Baker, Watts & Co. v. Saxon, a suit seeking to 
have declared invalid a ruling by the Comptroller of the Currency that 
certain types of revenue bonds were within the purview of the term 
"general obligations" in section 5136, Revised Statutes of the United 
States, and consequently that national banks might underwrite and deal 
in such securities. The Board, on the other hand, had consistently 
adhered to the opposite position. 

i. 
5/26/67 
-4-
In the process of considering whether or not to appeal the 
decision of the District Court, the Department of Justice solicited the 
Board's views, and in a letter of January 26, 1967, the Board reiterated 
its belief that the position advanced by plaintiffs was correct as a 
matter of law. 
It was now reported that advice had been received of the Solic-
itor General's conclusion not to appeal from the District Court's action. 
Report on proposed revision of S. 518 (Item No. 3). On March 6, 
1967, the Board transmitted a letter to Chairman Eastland of the Senate 
Judiciary Committee commenting on certain objectionable provisions of 
S. 518, a bill to amend the Administrative Procedure Act. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Divi-
sion dated May 24, 1967, in which proposals made by the Department of 
Justice to revise S. 518 were reviewed. Appended was a draft of letter 
to the Bureau of the Budget responding to its request for comments on 
the suggested revisions. 
Following discussion and adoption of certain editorial changes, 
the letter to the Bureau of the Budget was approved unanimously in the 
form attached to these minutes as Item No. 3. 
Report on H.R. 9510 (Item No. 4). There had been distributed 
a revised draft of letter to Chairman Staggers of the House Interstate 
and Foreign Commerce Committee commenting on H.R. 9510, a bill to amend 
the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the Investment 

'0'iii 
X 
5/26/67 
-5-
Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, to define equitable standards governing 
relationships between investment companies and their investment advisers 
and principal underwriters. The revised draft reflected suggestions 
that had been made to the staff by Governor Brimmer, pursuant to the 
, iC't'
1 
understanding at the meeting on May 17, 1967, and Governor Brimmer 
expressed himself as satisfied with the new draft. 
'I < 
Following agreement on an editorial change, the letter was 
approved unanimously in the form attached to these minutes as Item 
No. 4. 
i f f e • 
, • ; 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: The requirements contem-
plated by the Board's action on May 17, 1967, 
in approving the issuance of a preliminary 
permit to First National City Bank (Inter-
national), San Francisco, California, having 
been completed, a letter was sent today to 
that corporation transmitting a final permit 
to commence business. . 
} ' 
"l 
) ' • 
r. 
Secret?ary^> 
t-
a 
a; 
A, 
w 
aU-

. . . 
E3DARD • F G • VER N • RS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
5/26/67 
AODKESS nrriCIAC CORRtSPCINCtNCt 
TD THE BOARD 
May 26, 1967 
a-.?*' 
Board of Directors, 
The Fidelity Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch by The Fidelity Rank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at the intersection of Baltimore 
Pike and Jackson Street, Media, Pennsylvania, provided the 
branch is established within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board also approves pursuant to Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act an investment in bank premises of 
$265,000 by The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania s for 
the purchase of land and construction of quarters for the 
Proposed branch. 
• v 
The Board understands that you propose to sell long 
term debt obligations within the next few months to raise from 
$2.0 -25 million of new capital funds. Such an increase appears 
m°st desirable, and the Board hopes the program can be completed 
a s planned. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
"oard also had approved a six-month extension 
°f the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Eoard's letter 
°f November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
5/26/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 26, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Fidelity Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to June 9, 1968, the time within which 
The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, may 
establish a branch in the vicinity of the intersection 
of Limekiln Pike and Dreshertown Road, Upper Dublin 
Township, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E . Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2126 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2.0551 
Item No. 3 
5/26/67 
OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 26, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in reply to Legislative Referral Memorandum dated 
Hay 10, 1967, whereby the Bureau of the Budget has requested the 
Board's views with respect to a revision of S. 518, a bill "To amend 
the Administrative Procedure Act, and for other purposes", which has 
been proposed by the Department of Justice. 
In the Board's report on S. 518, submitted to the Committee 
°n the Judiciary of the United States Senate on March 6, 1967, the 
Board urged adoption by the Committee of specific recommended changes 
in the bill, and of suggested interpretive language for inclusion in 
Committee Report on the bill. The Board stated that such changes 
and statements of interpretation would reasonably assist agencies to 
Perform their statutory functions, while securing to the public the 
full measure of rights and protection intended to be afforded by the 
The Board's March 6 report reflected the coordinated study and 
viev/s of the Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the 
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. 
It is the Board's judgment that the Department of Justice's 
Proposed revision is consistent with accomplishment of the objectives 
c°ntemp]ated by the proposals in the Board's March 6 report, and that 
°nactment of a bill amended along the lines proposed by the Department, 
Particularly if accompanied by a Committee Report amplifying certain 
Provisions, would present no significant problem to the Board. The 
Specific provisions concerning which the Board believes that explana-
tory statements should be included in the Committee Report are contained 
Subsections 4(h)(6) and 5(a). The Board's report of March 6, 1967, 
Recommended language believed appropriate for adoption with respect to 
each 
of the subsections. While the Department proposes changes in both 
the subsections cited, the nature of these proposals does not, in 

Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
« 2 -
the Board's judgment, wholly remove the problems that were believed to 
warrant the Board's initial recommendations for Committee Report 
language. Regarding Subsection 4(h), we believe that the "Proposed 
Committee Report Statement Regarding Exemption (6) of Subsection 4(h)", 
submitted as part of the Board's March 6 report, is as necessary to 
the revised subsection as it was to the original S. 518 provision. 
The Department proposes to revise Subsection 5(a) so as to 
make applicable the procedures enumerated in Section 5 to cases which 
are required "_by_judicial precedent" to be determined on the record 
after opportunity for agency hearing, and to delete the reference to 
cases required "by the Constitution" to be so determined. The Board 
favors substitution of "by judicial precedent" for the phrase "by the 
Constitution" in Subsection 5(a). However, the Board continues to urge 
inclusion in the Committee Report of language that would make clear that 
the addition to the statute of the phrase "by judicial precedent" is not 
intended to control those administrative agencies
1 hearings or adjudica-
tory procedures which are not required by other statutes or "by judicial 
Precedent" to meet the more formal requirements of Subsection 5(a). For 
convenient reference, a copy of the Board's report of March 6 and attach 
meat thereto are enclosed. The Proposed Committee Report Statement re-
garding Subsection 5(a), appearing at pages 1 and 2 of the enclosed 
attachment, has been amended to coincide with the Department's proposed 
revision of the subsection. As amended, we .believe this statement to be 
an important factor contributing to the proper interpretation of the 
revised Subsection 5(a) . 
To the extent that any of the Department's proposals that may 
adopted fail to cover the matters which were the subject of the 
Board's March 6 recommendations, the Board continues to urge adoption 
those recommendations in the form and for the purposes set forth in 
its March 6 report. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
^closures 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
5/26/67 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
MH yjwTKC - . • i * .-...v., •*• » 
m m m 
W A S H I N G T O N 
OFFICE OF THt VICE CHAIRMAN 
May 26, 1967 
The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your request for a report on H.R. 9510, 
a bill to amend the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and 
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, to define the equitable 
standards governing relationships between investment companies and their 
investment advisers and principal underwriters, and for other purposes. 
While the chief thrust of the bill is outside the area of the 
Board's responsibility, the Board is concerned with promoting the kinds 
savings flows required for economic growth. Findings of a survey of 
mutual fund investors prepared for the Securities and Exchange Commission 
at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania suggest that 
current selling practices can result in mutual funds being sold to some 
Persons for whom they are not an appropriate savings or investment medium 
and may lead to instability of savings. To the extent that the present 
bill would tend to correct this situation and shift the relative emphasis 
to areas where mutual funds can contribute most effectively in mobilizing 
savings to meet expanding needs for capital, the Board believes the pro-
posals merit careful consideration. 
Sincerely 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson. 
