609 
iv. 5-67) 
Minutes for October 4, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 4, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mes srs. Leavitt and Egertson, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Eisenbeis, Golden, Greenspun, and King 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring of the Division of Bank Operations 
Miss McShane and Messrs. Achor, Harris, and 
Sanford of the Division of Examinations 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
Posed merger of The First National Bank of McAdoo, McAdoo, Pennsylvania, 

3840 
10/4/67 
-2-
into American Bank and Trust Co. of Pa., Reading, Pennsylvania, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclu-
sion read as follows: 
Some competition would appear to exist between the 
Tamaqua and Coaldale offices of American Bank and Trust 
Co. of Pa., Reading, and The First National Bank of McAdoo. 
American Bank and Trust Co. of Pa. is presently the 
largest bank operating in its service area, and has at-
tained its growth through numerous mergers; this posi-
tion would be slightly enhanced by the proposal. The 
overall competitive effect of the proposed merger would 
be adverse. 
Application of Union and New Haven Trust Company. There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated September 27, 1967, from the Divi-
sion of Examinations, with other pertinent papers, regarding the appli-
cation of The Union and New Haven Trust Company to merge The Tradesmens 
National Bank of New Haven, also of New Haven, Connecticut. 
In support of its adverse recommendation the Division noted 
that there was considerable competition between the two banks and 
potential for increased competition. Also, the merger would increase 
the already high degree of concentration of banking resources held by 
New Haven's three largest commercial banks. Therefore, the over-all 
effect of the transaction on competition would be adverse. The con-
venience and needs factor lent little support for approval. While 
Tradesmens National Bank did not have depth in senior management, the 
Problem was not urgent, and it seemed likely that it could be solved 
by means other than the present proposal. 

3841 
10/4/67 
- 3 -
The Banking Markets Section also recommended denial, principally 
on the grounds that (1) the merger would eliminate the substantial com-
petition existing between the two banks; (2) convenience and needs 
would probably be adversely affected by the elimination of one competi-
tor; and (3) alternative merger offers had been made to Tradesmens 
National Bank by at least two out-of-town banks. A merger with an out-
of-town bank would not adversely affect competition and convenience and 
needs, as it would not change the number of banks or the concentration 
of banking resources in the New Haven area. 
The Department of Justice had concluded in its competitive 
factor report that the effect of the proposal on competition would be 
substantially adverse. The Division of Examinations believed this con-
clusion meant that the Department regarded the case as falling under 
paragraph 5(B) of the Bank Merger Act, so as to preclude approval 
unless the anticompetitive effects were clearly outweighed in the pub-
lic interest by the probable effect on the convenience and needs of 
the community. 
After summary comments by Mr. Egertson based primarily on the 
material that had been distributed, Governors Mitchell, Daane, and 
Brimmer raised questions regarding alternative mergers that might be 
available to Tradesmens National Bank, the relative effects of those 
Possible mergers compared with the present proposal, and what course 
it seemed probable the bank would take if the present application were 
denied. 

10/4/67 
-4-
In discussing those questions, the staff brought out that State 
National Bank of Connecticut, in Bridgeport, had made a firm offer to 
merge Tradesmens National Bank in March 1967, and it was understood 
that one of Connecticut's two largest commercial banks, both in Hart-
ford, had submitted a firm offer after the present application was 
filed. Each of the Hartford banks had deposits in excess of $600 
million and held more than 17 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
in the State, whereas the Bridgeport bank held only 7 per cent. Entry 
of either the Bridgeport or Hartford banks into New Haven through 
merger with Tradesmens National Bank would leave five sources of com-
mercial banking services in the city, whereas the present proposal 
would reduce the number to four. However, a merger with either of 
the two large Hartford banks would increase an already high concentra-
tion at the State level. The Banking Markets Section would prefer an 
alternative merger, with as small a bank as possible. However, so far 
as the New Haven area was concerned, an alternative merger with either 
the bank in Bridgeport or one of the large banks in Hartford would have 
no appreciable effect on concentration and might have a favorable 
effect on competition. It was noted that because of the home office 
Protection provisions of State law, no out-of-town bank could enter 
New Haven except through the merger route. 
During discussion of the management succession problem at 
Tradesmens National Bank, Governor Brimmer observed that the chief 

10/4/67 
-5-
officer of the bank was understood to have been seeking a sale for 
several years, which would seem to indicate that he may not have been 
interested in building better depth of staff. Denial of the present 
application might have the effect of encouraging efforts to strengthen 
the institution. 
In reply to questions regarding the viability of the bank, the 
staff expressed the view that a merger was not essential. There had 
been several personnel losses, but apparently due mainly to the bank's 
unwillingness to pay competitive salaries. 
The Vice Chairman then requested the views of the members of 
the Board and, each member having indicated an adverse position, the 
application was denied by unanimous vote. It was understood that an 
order and statement reflecting this action would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration. 
Question was raised whether the provisions of paragraph 5(B) 
of the Bank Merger Act should be cited as the ground for the Board's 
action. (Under that paragraph, if a finding is made that a proposal 
may have the effect of lessening competition substantially, the appli-
cation cannot be approved unless the anticompetitive effects are 
dearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect on 
the convenience and needs of the community.) However, the discussion 
suggested that the statement should be cast in terms of describing the 
competitive effect as adverse, without sufficient benefits in regard 
to other factors to outweigh that effect. 

3 8 4 4 
10/4/67 
-6-
Several members of the staff who had attended for the discus-
sion of the preceding items withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Permission to carry reduced reserves (Items 1-2). There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated September 28, 1967, from the Divi-
sion of Bank Operations regarding the application of Southern California 
First National Bank (formerly First National Bank of San Diego), San 
Diego, California, for permission to carry reduced reserves following 
its acquisition on October 5, 1967, of Heritage-Wilshire National Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. The merger would give the bank three offices 
on the western side of Los Angeles, located about 11 to 14 miles from 
the financial center of the city. Two of the offices were within the 
city limits of Los Angeles. 
The memorandum brought out that the applicant bank was in 
direct competition with United States National Bank, San Diego, which 
the Board decided on June 23, 1967, should not be permitted to continue 
to carry country bank reserves beyond January 3, 1968, unless there 
should be a material change in the bank's situation. United States 
National Bank had acquired an office in the downtown financial section 
of Los Angeles at the beginning of 1966, but the Board had granted 
several postponements of the effective date to allow the bank time to 
adjust to the higher reserve requirements. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco recommended approval 
°f the request of Southern California First National Bank, feeling that 

3845 
10/4/67 
-7-
the bank's merger with Heritage-Wilshire National Bank, which had 
primarily a residential type business and no downtown locations, would 
not make the applicant bank an effective competitor with the major 
reserve city banks in Los Angeles. 
On the basis of analysis of the nature of the bank's business 
and its competitive situation, the Division of Bank Operations found, 
in summary, no evidence that First National Bank was presently engaged 
in the "wholesale" type of business usually characteristic of reserve 
city banks, nor any indication that the situation would change to any 
degree when the bank acquired the offices of Heritage-Wilshire National 
Bank. On the other hand, the Board had taken the position that size 
alone is a strong indicator of the character of a bank's business. 
United States National Bank and First National Bank were competitors, 
and to avoid the prospect of one bank's having a competitive advantage 
°ver the other, it would seem desirable that both be subject to the 
same reserve requirements. 
The memorandum stated, in conclusion, that the Division of 
Bank Operations felt that the application of reserve city reserve 
requirements to the applicant bank should be deferred until a decision 
was reached with respect to graduated reserve requirements, or until 
there was reason to believe that the character of the bank's business 
had changed significantly. However, in light of the competition 
between this bank and United States National Bank, and the fact that 

3 8 4 6 
10/4/67 
-8-
the Board had denied similar permission to the latter, the Division 
recommended that permission be denied to the applicant bank, but that 
the effective date of the change be deferred for six months to allow 
the bank to adjust to the higher reserve requirements. Attached was 
a draft of letter to the applicant reflecting the recommendation. 
After summary comments by Mr. Ring, it was brought out in dis-
cussion that Southern California First National Bank had been placed 
on notice that it would automatically become subject to reserve city 
reserves upon its merger with Heritage-Wilshire National Bank. In 
July 1967, when the Board considered its report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the then-proposed 
merger, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco was requested to make 
sure that the bank was aware of the prospective change in its status. 
Governor Daane commented that even though the Federal Reserve 
Bank had recommended approval of the applicant bank's request, it did 
not seem equitable to treat this bank differently from a bank that 
was its chief competitor. (It was noted that the Reserve Bank had 
also recommended granting United States National Bank permission to 
carry reduced reserves.) 
Governor Mitchell agreed that different treatment would not 
ke justified. Further, to the extent that size was the criterion for 
granting the privilege of carrying reduced reserves, denial of the 
Present request would appear consistent with the pattern followed in 
general around the country. 

3847 
10/4/67 
-9-
There ensued a discussion of the size of the largest banks 
that had been accorded the privilege, including comments on special 
circumstances that had entered into the decision in some instances. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the question of grant-
ing permission to carry reduced reserves in the Los Angeles environment 
had been settled when the Board refused the privilege to United States 
National Bank, and he was not prepared to reverse that decision. He 
noted that the Division of Bank Operations would allow six months for 
Southern California First National Bank to make its adjustment. It 
seemed to him unnecessary to allow the bank more time than until 
January 4, 1968, on which date United States National Bank was being 
required to carry reserve city reserves. 
Governor Daane commented that the principle of granting like 
treatment to the two banks would seem to argue for allowing First 
National Bank a somewhat longer time for adjustment. United States 
National Bank had been granted several extensions. 
Governor Brimmer observed that First National Bank had pro-
ceeded with its merger even though it had been warned of the effect 
that that would have on its reserve status. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that because of the need 
portfolio changes it would not seem unreasonable to allow six 
months, and he would so recommend. 
Further discussion indicated a consensus in favor of allowing 
six months for the adjustment to be made. Governor Brimmer said he 

3848 
10/4/67 
-10-
would go along with an action in those terms, although he did not 
believe it was desirable. 
The letter to Southern California First National Bank was then 
approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 1, for transmittal 
through the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. A copy of the trans-
mittal letter to the Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 2. 
Messrs. Holland and Ring then withdrew from the meeting. 
Officer salaries at San Francisco (Item No. 3). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated October 3, 1967, from the Division of 
Personnel Administration regarding a request from the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco for approval of the payment of salaries at the 
annual rates fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors to certain officers 
appointed or promoted, as follows: 
Effective November 1, 1967 - Seattle Branch 
W. R. Sandstrom promoted from Assistant Vice President to 
Vice President and Manager, at a salary of $20,000 per 
annum. 
R. P. Glascock promoted from Assistant Manager to Assis-
tant Vice President, at a salary of $15,750 per annum. 
E. R. Liggett appointed an officer with the title of 
Assistant Manager, at a salary of $12,000 per annum. 
Effective December 1, 1967 - head office 
R. E. McKendry promoted from Assistant General Auditor 
to General Auditor, at a salary of $18,000 per annum. 
A. G. Conte appointed an officer with the title of 
Assistant General Auditor, at a salary of $13,500 per 
annum. 

10/4/67 
-11-
The memorandum commented briefly on the background of each of 
the individuals concerned, recommended approval of the proposed sala-
ries, and noted that the Division of Examinations concurred in the 
appointments of Messrs. McKendry and Conte. 
In discussion of the new assignments, particularly at Seattle, 
Governor Brimmer commented on conversations he had had with President 
Swan of the San Francisco Reserve Bank regarding the depth of staff at 
the Bank. It was the general view that the Bank should be urged to 
continue efforts to build up its staff in the light of prospective 
requirements. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board approved unani-
mously the payment of salaries to the individuals concerned at the 
annual rates fixed by the Reserve Bank's Board of Directors. A copy 
of the letter sent to President Swan pursuant to this action is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On October 3, 1967, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the 
following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointments 
Clinton Lee Boddie as Cafeteria Laborer, Division of Administra-
tive Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Mary K. Nantell as Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,463, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 

10/4/67 
- 1 2 -
3850 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relat-
ing to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Sandra Anne Freyberger as Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective October 9, 
1967. 
Raymond A. Adams as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
On October 3 and October 4, 1967, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by the 
following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item num-
bers indicated: 
On October 3, 1967 
_By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Item No. 
Letter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
4 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Lower Makefield Township, Bucks County. 
On October 4, 1967 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
5 
approving the reappointment of Bruce D. Brereton 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
6 
approving the designation of Thomas E. Wilson 
as special assistant examiner. 

385 
^LRESf:. 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 1 
10/4/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
October 4, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Southern California First National Bank, 
San Diego, California. 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to the application from your bank, submitted 
through the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, for permission 
to continue to maintain the same reserves against deposits as are 
required to be maintained by banks not in reserve cities following 
its merger with Heritage-Wilshire National Bank, Los Angeles, and 
establishment of two offices within the city limits of Los Angeles. 
After consideration of the information submitted and in 
view of the size of your bank, the Board of Governors feels that 
it would not be justified in granting your application for permission 
to carry reduced reserves. However, the Board has deferred the 
effective date of the change for a six-months' period from the date 
°f the merger in order for your bank to adjust to the higher reserve 
requirement. Thus, it will not be necessary for your bank to 
"maintain reserves at the level required of other reserve city banks 
until the reserve computation period beginning April 11, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

I. ?< 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• 
F 
T H E 
Item No. 2 
10/4/67 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
October 4, 1967 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
Reference is made to your letter of September 13, 1967, 
recommending that the Southern California First National Bank, 
San Diego, California, be permitted to continue to maintain the same 
reserves against deposits as are required to be maintained by banks 
not in reserve cities following its acquisition of two offices 
within the city limits of Los Angeles. 
After consideration of the information submitted and in 
view of the size of the bank and the fact that this bank is the 
principal competitor of, and is comparable in size to, the United 
States National Bank, for which the Board has denied permission to 
carry reduced reserves, the Board feels that it would not be 
justified in granting this request. However, the Board has deferred 
the effective date of the change for a six-months' period from the 
date of the merger in order for the bank to adjust to the higher 
reserve requirement. Therefore, it will not be necessary for the 
subject bank to maintain reserve city reserves until the reserve 
computation period beginning April 11, 1968. 
Please forward the enclosed letter addressed to the subject 
bank. A copy is enclosed for your file. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 

7 cj rr o 
j'lO rS 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R 5 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 3 
10/4/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
October 4, 1967. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the following officers of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, effective dates shown through 
December 31, 1967: 
Name 
Title 
Annual Salary 
Effective November 1, 1967 - Seattle Branch 
W. R. Sandstrom Vice President and Manager $20,000 
R. P. Glascock 
Assistant Vice President 
15,750 
E. R. Liggett 
Assistant Manager 
12,000 
Effective December 1, 1967 - Head Office 
R. E. McKendry 
General Auditor 
$18,000 
A. G. Conte 
Assistant General Auditor 
13,500 
The rates approved are those fixed by your Board 
of Directors as reported in your letter of September 8. 
Very truly yours, 
•.':•!. i 
L; r,<:" 
tord 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

ZXf&M. HiCd d c 
Or* 
3854 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
P H I L A D E L P H I A 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
19101 
, 
ITEM NO. 4 
10/4/67 
0 E P * B T M C M T OR 
R 
bank E x a m i n a t i o n 
ii. y 
* 
October 3, 1967 
P 
Board of Directors 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101 
Dear Sirs: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia approves the establishment by 
The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, of a branch on the north side of Trenton Avenue, 
approximately 800 feet northeast of the intersection of Trenton 
Avenue and Pine Grove Road (Route 13), Lower Makefield Township, 
Bucks County, Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
This action is taken in view of the following opinions 
and factors: 
^ 
1. Capital of your bank presently is regarded as 
adequate. 
2. Management of your bank is regarded as adequate. 
3. It is believed the convenience and needs of the 
community will be better served if the pro-
posed branch is established. 
" / 
It is believed the establishment of the pro-
posed branch will not tend to create an un-
desirable competitive situation (either actual 
or potential). 
5. It is believed there are good prospects for 
profitable operations of the proposed branch 
within a reasonable time and the bank's earn-
ings are adequate to sustain the operational 
losses of the proposed branch until it becomes 
profitable. 

^DERAL RESERVE BANK o r PHILADELPHIA 
u o j O 
P A Q e N o . 
2 
T O Board of Directors 
"j :;r c •::• 
cr 
y 
> (Oi », u, 
' iOi^f 
10/ 3/67 
6. Your bank's investment in bank premises after 
the expenditure for the proposed branch will 
be reasonable. 
my 
7* Counsel for this Reeei^e Bank considers that 
establishment of the branch would be in con-
formity with the provisions of section 208.8 
of Regulation H and section 5155 of the Re-
vised Statutes. 
8. Establishment of the branch was approved by 
the Pennsylvania Department of Banking under 
date of September 28, 1967. 
Two banks 2/ in the area of the proposed branch have 
protested the application on the grounds there is not sufficient 
business in the vicinity to support an additional banking option. 
We do not reach this conclusion. The site of the proposed 
branch is in a growth area and it is our belief that, given ag-
gressive competitive efforts, there is sufficient business avail-
able to sustain existing banking facilities plus the proposed 
branch. o 1 n z uiiin s 
Yours sincerely, 
oseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 
1/ Central-Penn National Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and 
The Morrisville Bank, Morrisville, Pennsylvania. These two 
banks are being advised of this approval of the branch. 

1 'J-l 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
• 
F 
T H E 
10/4/67 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 ! 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
October 4, 1967 
Mr. L. E. Quackenbush, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Quackenbush: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of October 2, 1967, the Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board 
of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
reappointment of Bruce D. Brereton as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
effective today. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary. 

3857 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
item No. 6 
• F T H E 
1 0 / 4 / 6 7 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 4, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of September 29, 1967, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the designation of Thomas E. 
Wilson as a special assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
