Minutes for 
October 22, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

•a^/1 f-x 
o » 4±U 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 22, 1968. 
The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson and Miss Hart, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Bernard and Mrs. Semia of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Heyde of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver and Ducy of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. White of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Messrs. Achor, Harris, Karsten, Maguire, and 
Sanford of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 

kj 4 
10/22/68 
-2-
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of Merchants Bank and Trust Company, Meadville, 
Pennsylvania, into The Pennsylvania Bank and Trust Company, Titusville, 
Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corpora-
tion. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little existing competition between The 
Pennsylvania Bank and Trust Company, Titusville, and 
Merchants Bank and Trust Company, Meadville; however, 
there is considerable potential for competition between 
them through de novo branching. The overall competitive 
effect of the proposed merger would be adverse. 
Open Market Committee schedule. There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated October 18, 1968, 
submitting a suggested schedule of meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee in 1969. The schedule called for 14 meetings, as had the 
schedule for 1968, and involved ten 4-week intervals and four 3-week 
intervals, with the latter relatively well distributed throughout the 
year. 
The memorandum noted that the staff had been requested to con-
sider the possibility of shifting in 1969 to a schedule of 12 meetings, 
on the third Tuesday of each month. Such a schedule would have 
required that the Federal Advisory Council change the provision of 
its by-laws calling for meetings with the Board on third Tuesdays of 
four months of the year. Exploration of the latter question had indi-
cated that any other schedule of Council meetings than the one now 
followed would conflict with regularly scheduled commitments for 
several members of the Council. 

O / 'J. 
10/22/68 
-3-
The members of the Board having expressed agreement with the 
proposed 1969 schedule, it was understood that the schedule would be 
submitted to the Committee for approval at its next meeting. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum from Mr. Broida 
dated October 21, 1968, there were submitted drafts of policy record 
entries covering the meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee 
held on August 13 and 19, 1968. The August 13 entry had been revised 
to take account of comments received from Committee members and staff 
following distribution of a preliminary draft entry. No suggestions 
had been received for revision of the preliminary draft of the August 
19 entry. The entries were now presented for approval by the Board. 
The entries were approved unanimously. 
It was understood that 
they would be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily 
for information but with an indication of the date by which any further 
comments should be received. 
It was contemplated that the August 13 
entry would be released to the press about November 11, 1968, and that 
the August 19 entry would be released about November 18, in each case 
after final Board review. 
Application of Colonial Bank and Trust Company. A memorandum 
dated October 16, 1968, from the Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion and other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection 
with the application of The Colonial Bank and Trust Company, Waterbury, 
Connecticut, to merge Litchfield County National Bank, New Milford, 
Connecticut. 
The Division recommended approval. 

* 1 H" I f * } 
o 
10/22/68 
-4-
Following comments by Mr. Egertson, the application was 
approved unanimously with the understanding that an order and state-
ment reflecting this decision would be drafted for the Board's con-
sideration. 
Referrals to Securities and Exchange Commission (Item No. 1). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated October 14, 1968, from 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation advising that several 
possible violations of statutes and regulations administered by the 
Securities and Exchange Commission had come to light in the course 
of pilot inspections of lenders registered under the Board's Regula-
tion G, Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for 
the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities. 
The Division recommended that information regarding these situations 
be referred to the Commission for whatever action it might deem 
appropriate; a draft letter for that purpose was attached. 
The letter was approved unanimously; a copy is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
The Division also suggested that the Board might wish to 
authorize the staff to refer similar findings to the Commission in 
the future. 
Governor Brimmer proposed that a record of the transmittal 
by the staff of any such letters be included in the weekly summary 
(minutes appendix) listing actions taken under delegated authority 
and miscellaneous matters. 

o ? 44 
10/22/68 
-5-
It was agreed that this procedure would be followed. 
Memphis Branch building program (Item No. 2). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated October 15, 1968, from the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations regarding the request of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis for authorization to proceed with the 
preparation of detailed plans and specifications for the proposed new 
building for the Memphis Branch. The memorandum described various 
features of the proposed building-, the estimated cost of which was 
$5,790,000. Attached was a draft telegram that would grant the 
requested authorization. 
The telegram was approved unanimously; a copy is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
A number of staff members who had been in attendance withdrew 
at this point or earlier. 
Appointment of consultants. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by 
the Division of Research and Statistics in a memorandum dated Octo-
ber 11, 1968, which recommendation was concurred in by Governor 
Sherrill, the Board approved unanimously the appointment of the follow-
ing persons as consultants, at the rate of $95 a day, to attend the 
semiannual meeting of the Financial Analysis Committee (a System group) 
to be held at the Board's offices on October 30-31, 1968: 
Professor William Brainard, 
Professor Carl Christ, 
Yale University 
Johns Hopkins University 
Professor Ronald Teigen, 
Professor Barbara Bergmann, 
University of Michigan 
University of Maryland 

* > w 
O • 
10/22/68 
-6-
It was understood that transportation expenses and per diem would be 
paid in accordance with the Board's travel regulations, and that this 
action included authorization for any resulting overexpenditure in 
the pertinent account of the 1968 budget of the Division of Research 
and Statistics. 
Officer salary structure at New York (Item No. 3). There had 
been distributed a draft of letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York that would advise of approval of a revised salary structure 
for the Bank's officers other than the President and First Vice 
President. 
The letter would also state, in fixing a special maximum 
of $50,000 for Senior Vice Presidents, that the special maximum of 
$55,000 requested by the Bank was not believed to be needed at present 
and could be considered on an ad hoc basis if needed in the future. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the Board's Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans had reviewed the plan, 
which was endorsed by the Bank's directors, and had discussed it with 
President Hayes and First Vice President Treiber. The Committee had 
raised objection only to the proposed special maximum of $55,000 for 
Senior Vice Presidents. 
It seemed to the Committee that a $50,000 
maximum would provide enough headroom for the present. 
Governor Brimmer brought out that President Hayes had wanted 
the Board to know that he and his directors supported the $55,000 
maximum. 

10/22/68 
-7-
In response to a question by Governor Daane, Governor Mitchell 
explained that the Committee believed the $55,000 maximum would tres-
pass too deeply into the officer salary structures at other Reserve 
Banks, particularly with respect to salaries of Presidents and First 
Vice Presidents. 
The schedule now proposed would maintain present 
relationships reasonably well. 
Governor Brimmer cited pertinent figures he had assembled on 
this point and expressed the view that the existing relationships 
should not be disrupted without strong reason. 
Governor Daane agreed that such relationships were important. 
However, his view was that the ranges now being proposed were a little 
low if the New York Bank was to be able to compete effectively for 
top talent in the New York community. While he would go along with 
the Committee's recommendation, he would have been disposed to accept 
the $55,000 special maximum. 
The letter was then approved unanimously; a copy is attached 
as Item No. 3. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Kenyon, Hackley, Brill, and Frederic Solomon. 
Chemical Bank. Governor Brimmer reported, on behalf of Gover-
nor Robertson, information received by President Hayes from an official 
of Chemical Bank New York Trust Company concerning thought being given 
by the bank to conversion to national charter in connection with its 

•TV-"; -» 
O / f. 
10/22/68 
-8-
plan to organize a one-bank holding company. It was understood to be 
the bank's view that the Board's policy on mergers was too restrictive 
and reflected the Board's attitude toward the banking business gener-
ally, that the Federal Reserve took too much time in the processing 
of applications, and that a national bank was in a more advantageous 
position in terms of freedom from suits and exposure to taxes. 
There followed comments on the relative weight that may have 
been assigned to the several factors, and members of the Board 
expressed the view that other conversions to national bank status, 
although to be regretted, would not be surprising. 
(Note: 
Chemical 
subsequently announced the formation of a one-bank holding company 
but retained its State bank charter.) 
Annex building. Governor Sherrill stated that after further 
consideration in light of views expressed by Board members at a recent 
meeting he would recommend that the Loewy-Snaith firm be retained to 
provide interior design services in connection with the Board's new 
annex building. 
There was general acceptance of that decision. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

^CJGOW-. 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
OK<M 
V> / • 
Item No. 1 
10/22/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 22, 1968. 
M r . Irving Pollack, Director, 
Division of Trading and Markets, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
500 North Capitol Street, N.W., 
Washington, D. C. 
20549 
Dear Mr. Pollack: 
In the course of pilot inspections pursuant to section 17(b) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Federal Reserve Regulation G , 
"Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for Purpose of 
Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities,'
1
 the following 
situations were reported by members of the Board's staff, which may 
amount to violations of laws and regulations administered by the Securities 
and Exchange Commission. 
1 
Roberts & Co., 10 Milk Street, Boston, Massachusetts: 
Inspection was made of this concern on June 24, 1968, and in the course 
of that inspection credit extended to M r . Joseph DeGrazia by Roberts & 
Co., was discussed. Independent inquiry, confirmed by the SEC Boston 
Regional Office, indicated Mr. DeGrazia is Vice President and a Director 
of Spear and Staff, an investment advisory service registered under the 
Investment Advisors Act of 1940. 
It was noted that much of the collateral securing the Roberts 
loan to DeGrazia consisted of sizable blocks of over-the-counter securities, 
and among those was a block of stock of Wang Laboratories 
A review of 
several of Spear and Staff's recommendations for the period April through 
June 1968, indicated that the stock of Wang Laboratories was strongly 
recormnended. Between February 9, 1967, and the date of the inspection 
referred to above, Wang stock rose from $12 to $72 per share and the 
market value of Mr. DeGrazia's investment in the stock increased from 
$12,000 to $72,000. 
Copies of Spear and Staff reports for April through June 1968 
are enclosed! as are copies of the ledger sheets- of Roberts & Co., cover-
ing Mr. De Grazia's loans. 

O 
M r . Irving Pollack 
-2-
2. Ashwell & Co., 208 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 
(subsequently merged with John Neuveen & C o . ) . 
Inspection was made of 
this company on August 1, 1968. It was determined that Ashwell & Co., 
extended credit on registered equity securities (mostly mutual funds) 
for a very short term before selling the notes (with collateral) to one 
of several Chicago banks. In such cases, Ashwell would continue to 
serve the loan. Westamerica Securities Inc., (L. W . Hartsfield 
registered representative), which may be a broker/dealer subject to 
Federal Reserve Regulation T, "Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members 
of National Securities Exchanges," appears to have placed loans for 
customers through Ashwell. If such loans were "arranged" on behalf of 
clients of Westamerica, the firm and/or the individuals involved may 
have violated section 220.7(a) of Regulation T. 
3. Gibraltar Corporation, 120 West Madison Street, Chicago, 
Illinois. Inspection of this firm was made on July 31, 1968. In the 
course of the inspection it was disclosed that Gibraltar does not allow 
its borrowers to buy financed securities in the borrower's name. 
Instead, 
Gibraltar entered orders for its own cash or margin accounts with several 
member firms. Some such stocks are delivered to Gibraltar's bank against 
payment. 
This method of operation may cause Gibraltar to be considered 
to be conducting a business of buying and selling securities for the 
account of another, through the medium of a member of a national securities 
exchange and as such may cause Gibraltar to be considered as a broker 
acting without complying with applicable laws and regulations. 
This information is forwarded for whatever action the Commission 
may deem appropriate. If you have any questions or if you wish to discuss 
this matter with the Board's staff, please contact Miss Janet Hart, 
Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures 

v> 
O i J 
Item No. 2 
T E L E G R A M 
10/22/68 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 22, 1968. 
FRANCIS - ST. LOUIS 
Board authorizes your Bank to proceed with the preparation of 
detailed plans and specifications for the proposed new building 
for the Memphis Branch, as described in preliminary plans 
revised as of September 12, 1968, and outline specifications 
forwarded with your letter of July 29, 1968. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/22/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 22, 1968. 
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL 
M r . Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear M r . Hayes: 
The Board of Governors has approved the following revisions 
in your official salary structure, effective January 1, 1969: 
Salary Group 
Minimum 
Maximum 
A 
$32,000 
$46,000 
B 
28,000 
40,000 
C 
24,000 
35,000 
D 
20,000 
30,000 
E 
16,500 
25,000 
The Board also approved a special maximum of $50,000 for 
Senior Vice Presidents. The Board believes that the requested special 
maximum of $55,000 is not now needed and should be considered on an 
ad hoc basis if needed in the future. With the exception of the 
special maximum, salary ranges approved are those recommended by your 
Board of Directors, as presented in M r . Treiber's letter of September 6, 
addressed to Governor Mitchell. 
This approval is, of course, subject to review and formal 
approval of the Board of Directors of your Bank. 
Yours sincerely, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
