MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 28, 1969 

1761 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, May 28, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
f..,•; •,'•.,:•:-. V; 
I 
• . 
v 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Res erve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
0
<
• 
</•••:••.: 
'.I.-': ft, 
'.•;••• 
. ' 
' - ! ' -

5/28/69 
-2-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Charter New York Corporation. Mr. O'Connell recalled that 
the Board had, in the fall of 1968, denied an application of Charter 
New York Corporation, New York, New York to acquire Central Trust 
Company, Rochester, New York. That denial, by a vote of four to 
three, had been based primarily on the degree of concentration in 
the Rochester market. Thereafter Charter had requested reconsider-
ation, but had been informed that such would be in order only if 
there were new facts to present. Charter had at that time mentioned 
a possibility of acquiring Central Trust Company and divesting 
itself of 
some number of Central's offices and assets. 
Mr. O'Connell reported that he had recently been contacted 
by a representative of the holding company with a preliminary pro-
posal along the lines suggested earlier whereby Charter would, after 
acquiring Central Trust Company, divest itself of four of the latter1 
offices, one located in downtown Rochester. These would be acquired 
by 
another holding company or by some other party. Charter had been 
hopeful of receiving some indication as to whether the possibilities 
for approval of such an arrangement were great enough to make it 
w°rthwhile to proceed with the filing of an application. 
However, 
O'Connell 
realized that the Board might be hesitant to give any 
Such indication. 

17t>3 
5/28/69 
-3-
With regard to the proposal itself, Mr. O'Connell suggested 
that its innovative aspects alone might warrant giving it consider-
ation. On the other hand, he saw a possiblity that it might in some 
respects be construed adversely. Thus, while he did not expect any 
Board indication of the action it might take on any forthcoming 
application, he did request the Board's opinion on whether the staff 
might properly refer Charter to the Antitrust Division of the Justice 
Department for their views on the competitive effects of the proposal, 
including possible market-sharing features. 
Members of the Board were, as Mr. O'Connell had suggested, 
opposed to offering any prejudgment on the merits of the proposal. 
Governor Brimmer, who had talked with represenatives of Charter at 
the time of its earlier request for reconsideration, reported that 
he had attempted to discourage them from following their present 
Path. He had stressed the impropriety of requesting counsel from 
a single Board member or of expecting any degree of prior clearance 
from the Board. Mr. Holland noted that the issue had been brought 
before the Board at this time in an effort to head off possible 
aPproaches to individual Board members. 
While agreeing that the Board itself and the members thereof 
should give no indication of possible future actions, Governors 
Mitchell and Sherrill expressed some sympathy with the practice of 
prior consultation with the staff on an informal basis in cases 
o f this kind. 

1764 
5/28/69 
-4-
Most Board members expressed the view that the idea of 
referring Charter to the Justice Department should not be pursued, 
although it was noted that any agreement with respect to market-
sharing, if that was involved in the present proposal, would be of 
direct concern to Justice. 
There was fairly general agreement that the proposal now 
being made was essentially different from the one disapproved 
earlier. 
In view of this and the foregoing discussion, Chairman 
Martin suggested, and it was agreed, that the staff could appropri-
ately indicate to Charter that, should that corporation choose to 
file a new application, the Board would be prepared to entertain 
it. No indication of the prospects for its approval should be 
C o u n i 7 
.. >,:.-•,; 
• 
. ; - 
. • . 
J , 
given, however. 
Change of nomenclature at savings and loan associations. 
'•••• fc4. i.. i. 
( 
Governor Robertson reported that Chairman Preston Martin of the 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board had informed him that that agency 
intended to proceed with its pending regulations which would permit 
savings and loan associations to employ nomenclature referring to 
'deposits" and payment of "interest." Chairman Martin had assured 
Governor Robertson that the change would be made as quietly as 
Possible. Governor Robertson had stressed in response that, while 
it of course appreciated being kept informed, the Federal Reserve 
viewed itself as playing no role in this action. 
Objections from 
commercial banks were almost certain to be forthcoming, and it was 

17fj 
i 
5/28/69 
-5-
expected that those complaints would be answered by the Home Loan 
Bank Board. 
.V.. 
; 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Provident National Bank, 
i
-
'
-
i
i
: 
. 
, 
i. 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, with Sower National Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Compt-
Ihta'-: » v 
• 
... 
roller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Sower National 
Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and Provident National 
Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
I 
• j • ; J 
:. •• 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of St. Louis County National Bank, Clayton, Missouri, into 
County National Bank, Clayton, Missouri, also was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of St. Louis 
County National Bank, Clayton, Missouri, with County 
National Bank, Clayton, Missouri, would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed 
acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities of Bank of Texas, 
Houston, Texas, by Esperson State Bank, Houston, Texas, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
C't! \ » ; 
tion. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of Bank of 
Texas, Houston, Texas, by Esperson State Bank, Houston, 
Texas, would have no adverse competitive effects. 

5/28/69 
-6-
Each of the three foregoing proposed transactions was 
designed to facilitate acquisition of the existing bank by a 
<it 1 i. 
newly-formed bank holding company. 
'lit -
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of United National Bank of Brandon, Brandon, South Dakota, 
' i ; i 
,; Li v. 
- 
• 
: 
and Lyman County Bank, Kennebec, South Dakota, into United National 
v a i 1 j f , • ^ :, . 
Bank of Vermillion, Vermillion, South Dakota, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
The proposed merger of United National Bank of Brandon, 
Lyman County Bank, Kennebec, and United National Bank of 
Vermillion would have no adverse competitive effects. 
' i'vl--..; ..,: . . 
. S-.J '' *i 
>" 
. 
Midwest Bancorporation. 
There had been distributed a memo-
randum dated May 21, 1969, submitting drafts of a proposed order 
and a statement reflecting the Board's action on May 5, 1969, 
' Y
. 
• 
t\«< > 
' 
• 
approving the application of Midwest Bancorporation, Inc., Kansas 
^^•ty, Missouri, to become a bank holding company through the acqui-
si-tion of shares of Laurel Bank, Raytown, Missouri, and Platte 
W°ods Bank, Platte Woods, Missouri. 
Issuance of these documents was authorized; copies are 
' • v-' * 
'.u.t { r 
;i t . • • • 
attached under Item No. 1. 
_Euro-dollar regulation. A number of staff memoranda bearing 
° n the regulation of Euro-dollar borrowings and related matters had 
er* distributed to the Board in recent weeks. The latest of these 
W e r e memoranda: 
(1) from the Division of International Finance 

5/28/69 
-7-
dated May 27, 1969, regarding measures to affect the use of Euro-
dollars in the U.S.; (2) from the Division of International Finance 
dated May 27, 1969, regarding marginal reserve requirements on 
Euro-dollars; and (3) from Mr. Holland dated May 28, 1969, regard-
ing a possible amendment to Regulation D in connection with Euro-
dollar cash items. 
Several Board members observed that these memoranda had 
arrived too late for careful study and that they therefore did not 
feel adequately prepared for an intensive discussion of the Euro-
dollar issue. However, it was noted that the basic issues and 
principles involved had been well documented in earlier memoranda, 
with those recently distributed representing mainly elaborations. 
The importance of facing at least the underlying issues promptly 
was stressed, especially in view of the difficulty of assembling 
a full Board again in the immediate future. 
In opening the general discussion that followed, Mr. Holland 
reported that several staff members, both at the Board and at the 
New York Reserve Bank, saw a strong need for taking some action with 
regard to the Euro-dollar matter because increased pressures on 
banks were likely to materialize in June. While differences remained 
among individual staff members as to the precise form actions should 
take, agreement had been reached on most major questions. 
As noted, Mr. Holland said, there was a general consensus 
among the staff that this was the time to act, with a few staff 

\ 
A c 
5/28/69 
-8-
members feeling that action was virtually imperative. In addition 
to the domestic pressures on U.S. banks, there was a possibility 
of exceptionally strong demands from continental sources. Accord-
ingly, there could be extreme pressures on the Euro-dollar market, 
and it was felt that some means of dampening the demands of U.S. 
banks could be important. Further, some felt that a mechanism such 
as that being proposed could prove an important disincentive to 
i < 
reflows of Euro-dollars at a later time. 
Most staff members, Mr. Holland reported, favored a marginal 
reserve requirement on Euro-dollar borrowings. The base to be used 
should .be some daily average of holdings, with the first two weeks, 
in May tentatively suggested. The staff was undecided as to the 
aPpropriate level of such reserve requirements, but most suggestions 
W ere in a range of 6 to 10 per cent, with the highest suggestions 
coming in most cases from the staff of the New York Bank. The final 
choice of a level should depend in some part on the aggregate impact 
other actions that the Board might choose to take simultaneously. 
Most 
of the staff, Mr. Holland said, also favored the proposal 
t o redefine direct loans to domestic banks from foreign banks as 
deposits for purposes of Regulation D. This redefinition was not 
i* i • 
<n ., 
Proposed to apply under Regulation Q, however, so the loans would 
n o t be subject to interest rate ceilings. This move was viewed as 
important, in conjunction with the marginal reserve requirements, 
S in« 
ce in its absence the initial result of the latter move would 
•Uth 
i -

*1769 
5/28/69 
-9-
be to increase the incentives for U.S. banks with foreign branches 
to arrange direct Euro-dollar loans from foreign banks, rather than 
bidding for Euro-dollars through their foreign branches. Thus, it 
would be possible for the aggregate inflow of Euro-dollars to con-
tinue virtually unchecked. 
Mr. Holland added that these direct loans were not the only 
alternative method of gaining funds abroad. No staff proposals for 
dealing with certain other possibilities were currently ready for 
Board consideration, but such proposals probably could be prepared 
without serious difficulty. 
Turning to the proposal to amend Regulation D to meet the 
problem of reductions in reserve requirements being achieved by 
some banks through their handling of Euro-dollar transactions, 
Mr. Holland noted that this issue was in many ways separate from 
the other questions. 
The proposed amendment would have some initial 
policy impact via reserve absorption, and it would increase somewhat 
the effective cost of Euro-dollars, This should, other things being 
eclual, contribute to some lessening of the rate °f inflow. On the 
°ther hand, it was basically a technical amendment designed to close 
a loophole in Regulation D. Earl ier in the year broader questions 
had been raised regarding the whole area of deductibility of cash 
Items, and this general issue would still benefit from close exami-
nation, but the current proposal focused narrowly on the Euro-dollar 
Problem and was viewed as the least controversial method of dealing 
w lth it. 

1770 
5/28/69 
-10-
Mr. Holland added that several staff members viewed the 
exploitation of the deductibility provision currently taking place 
as a flagrant violation of the spirit of Regulation D calling for 
prompt remedial action. On the other hand, the transactions involved 
were not fully understood, and no substantiated estimates of the 
size of the reserve absorption that would result could be given, 
although it was believed to be fairly substantial and growing with 
the passage of time. 
While the recognition of the practice as being essentially 
unjustified and the progressive increase thought to be taking place 
in its dimensions might argue for prompt action, Mr. Holland sug-
gested that there might also be reasons to delay. First, the 
j'l-i ' .... :; i , 
inadequacy of present knowledge made it virtually impossible to 
i h h , . 
- , 
foresee with any certainty the size of the initial reserve impact. 
Particularly in view of this uncertainty, there might be some danger 
bank-?' o 
in adding this further tightening action to those resulting from 
other actions the Board might choose to take. Also, the practice 
ad been going on for some time and a further delay of several 
^ • ! 
V, 
months in halting it might not be too serious. 
*-Tt . 
. 
Following Mr. Holland's remarks, Mr. Gemmill, principal 
author of the memoranda from the Division of International Finance, 
'•J. . tafia* 
j . 
scussed the proposals being made with regard to marginal reserve 
e9uirements and the redefinition of direct loans from foreign banks. 
^Urning first to marginal reserve requirements on Euro-dollar 

1.771 
5/28/69 
-11-
borrowings, he noted that interest in this device reflected in large 
part balance of payments considerations. In the short run, such 
requirements would provide some disincentives to additional inflows. 
And at a later date, should domestic monetary conditions ease signif-
br r ; 
. 
• 
icantly relative to those in Europe, they would encourage banks to 
keep Euro-dollars up to the base level. 
Mr. Gemmill recognized that the use of any base date for 
establishing the requirements inevitably involved inequities. He 
felt 
that the sizable day-to-day and week-to-week variations often 
experienced by the very large banks would be dealt with satisfactorily 
if a long enough averaging period were used. In his opinion, the 
L ' J » . / J 
real problems would arise with the relatively small banks that were 
a •• 
- 
v 
i 
• t j i , •..•..:?••». .•• t I < > •, . 
just acquiring foreign branches or just beginning to participate in 
the Euro-dollar market. One possible solution would be to estimate 
in some way the amount of Euro-dollars it was "appropriate" for these 
banks to hold and establish this as their base. 
Mr. Gemmill pointed out that his memorandum of April 17 had 
Proposed that marginal reserve requirements apply to foreign branch 
claims on the head office, assets acquired through transactions with 
head office, and those acquired through direct transactions with 
»'V 
: jt' 
, 
customers of the head office. However, he had since concluded that a 
i 
substantial amount of work remained to be done before the final part 
this proposal could be effectively implemented. His later memo-
" '^f-tC4a v,< i. 
randum of May 27 was therefore limited to the first and second kinds 
o f claims. 

1. / * /J 
5/28/69 
-12-
Mr. Gemmill cited several rationales for the proposed action. 
First, it would remove, in connection with all future transactions, 
one special advantage currently enjoyed by banks having foreign 
branches. It should also cause some slowing down of the rate of 
inflows, although there remained the possibility that it would only 
cause banks to shift their attention to other methods of obtaining 
funds abroad. On the other hand, that possibility might be lessened 
by the European monetary authorities, who, after this initial move 
by the U.S., might find themselves in a better posture to take steps 
°f their own to slow the flow of funds to the U.S. And, should those 
steps fail to materialize, the Board could take additional actions 
such as redefining direct loans from foreign branches as deposits. 
Mr. Robert Solomon listed four reasons for taking some action 
Euro-dollars. First was a desire to increase monetary restraint 
domestically by blocking, or at least increasing the cost of, one 
source of funds used heavily by the very large banks. Second might 
be a desire to ease the pressures on the Euro-dollar market, which 
c°uld become severe in the month immediately ahead, by dampening 
somewhat the demands of U.S. banks. Third, the Board might consider 
important to respond in some way to the criticisms of Europeans 
a s to the heavy American presence in the market and the lack of 
fed 
e ral Reserve action up to now. Lastly, continued increases in 
merican holdings represented in the long run ever larger potential 
eflows that could at some time in the future cause stability problems 

177 
5/28/69 
-13-
for the dollar. It was unrealistic to expect the Board actions, 
however far-reaching, to stop the inflow of funds from abroad. While 
some slowing down might be achieved, he felt that emphasis should be 
placed on the removal of existing special advantages. 
Governor Maisel asked whether logic would not require adoption 
of a moving base, or at least one that was changed periodically, and 
it was agreed that there should at least be some implication that the 
base would be updated periodically, although explicit provision for 
such updating was probably not necessary. 
Governor Mitchell questioned the degree of urgency attached 
to the matter. He noted that the staff proposals, in their several 
forms, were not expected to block the flow of funds. Also, the 
Proposal currently under consideration, while it might reduce inequi-
ties, would not eliminate them. He no longer felt that the funds 
were needed as a safety valve, but he felt that hasty action without 
the benefit of more knowledge than was now available could be a 
Mistake. 
Mr. Solomon responded that one reason for fairly prompt action 
Night be the existence of outside pressures. Virtually all of the 
European countries were believed to be under some pressure as a result 
°f heavy American participation in the Euro-dollar market. 
On the other hand, Governor Daane reported that a country-by-
°Untry study performed by the New York Bank suggested that only one 

1774 
J i •'' ' " 
5/28/69 
-14-
country--Belgium--was actually experiencing serious difficulty. The 
study even suggested that a few countries might be benefiting from 
current conditions. 
In any case, Mr. Solomon said, while the marginal reserve 
requirement would not block the funds flow, it would increase the cost 
of funds slightly and provide some reinforcement to market forces. 
Thus, it should not be regarded as a meaningless gesture without real 
impact. 
Governor Robertson noted that, while he saw a need for disin-
centives to further additions, he felt it was also important to devise 
a mechanism to discourage reflows if and as monetary conditions here 
eased relative to those in Europe. As an amendment to Mr. Gemmill's 
Proposal for marginal reserve requirements, designed to make it more 
\ • 
effective as a device to discourage reflows, Governor Robertson 
Suggested what might be termed a downward-floating base. Whenever 
'J- • : 
.., • 
_ 
''. 
; , 
• 
. • 
• ' 
i -
the holdings of an individual bank fell below its initially estab-
lished base, the base would be lowered accordingly. 
With regard to the broad issue of Euro-dollar regulation, 
Governor Daane reported that he understood the Secretary of the 
treasury was unenthusiastic about any U.S. moves at this time. 
Under Secretary Volcker, while perhaps more sympathetic in general, 
also reportedly felt that this was not the time to act. He foresaw 
substantial pressures on the U.S. balance of payments in the next 

1775 
5/28/69 
-15-
month and hoped that regulatory actions could be postponed until 
after midyear. 
The discussion concluded with no decision to take action 
having been reached. Should the marginal reserve requirement pro-
posal be favored at a later date, however, Governor Robertson 
suggested that the normal period for receipt of comments might be 
waived. If there was to be an opportunity for comment, he stressed 
the importance of establishing a firm base date, already past, at 
the time of initial publication. Otherwise, there would be a strong 
incentive for banks to maximize their Euro-dollar borrowing in the 
interim, even at abnormally high rates, in order to achieve the 
largest possible base. 
At this point discussion turned to the cash items issue. 
Mr. Holland's memorandum of May 28 had submitted for Board consid-
eration regulatory language that had the effect of disallowing as 
a deduction from deposits in computing a member bank's reserve 
requirements any "cash item in process of collection" or "balance 
^ue from other bank" that was credited to any account with or in a 
foreign branch of such bank. The memorandum suggested three possible 
c°urses of action: (1) defer action pending (a) further staff study 
and/or (b) a change in market conditions, including adjustment to 
a ny other actions taken; (2) publish the proposed amendment for corn-
e t , with a longer period than usual for receipt of comment; or 
publish the proposed amendment for comment within 30 days. 
"v. 
ment 

1776 
5/28/69 
-16-
Governor Brimmer suggested prompt action on the matter. As 
he saw it, the only possible reason for delay was the uncertainty 
concerning the size of the resulting reserve absorption. If the 
Board did not at least publish an amendment for comment, it would 
appear to be unaware of the existence of a violation of its regula-
tions. Also, since the commercial banks were clearly aware of the 
questionable aspects of the practice and in some cases had refrained 
from making the deductions for this reason, continued lack of official 
action would penalize the banks that were abiding by the regulation 
relative to those that were not. 
Governor Mitchell, on the other hand, expressed concern 
regarding the unknown size of the reserve impact. He felt that even 
the publication of a proposed amendment could have a substantial 
impact as banks attempted to revise their methods of handling Euro-
dollar transactions in anticipation of the actual reserve absorption. 
Governor Daane, who also expressed concern about the reserve 
impact, tended to minimize the need to act for international political 
reasons alone, based in part on the results of the New York Bank study 
n°ted earlier. He felt that both publication and implementation 
ahould probably be delayed. 
The mechanics of the action were discussed briefly, but 
differences of view persisted regarding the appropriate step, if any, 
t o be taken. However, several Board members suggested that further 

5/28/69 
-17-
study of the memoranda involved might enable them to reach an agree-
ment. It was therefore agreed that the Board would reconvene at 
2:00 p.m. to give further consideration to the matter. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance, and the Board approved a request of the Division of 
Research and Statistics in a memorandum of May 23, 1969, for authori-
zation to obtain information on various types of nondeposit trans-
actions in connection with consideration of expanding the scope of 
Regulations D and Q to encompass additional means by which banks 
raise funds. This information, along with a variety of other 
information, would eventually be obtained by a subcommittee of the 
System Research Advisory Committee, but the report of that subcom-
mittee would not be available for some time and this more limited 
range of data was felt to be needed promptly. 
St. Louis discount rate. After discussion, the Board 
disapproved by unanimous vote the establishment by the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis on May 22, 1969, of a discount 
rate of 7 per cent (rather than 6 per cent). The Board took this 
action in the belief that present monetary conditions and uncer-
tainties—including widespread speculation regarding the possibility 
of a further increase in the commercial bank prime rate--made an 
increase in the discount rate untimely. The Board concluded that 
the circumstances necessitated a disapproval of the proposed increase 
rather than a deferral of consideration of the matter. 

1778 
l. 
5/28/69 
-18-
A copy of the letter sent to the St. Louis Bank pursuant to 
this action is attached as Item No. 2. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room 
at 2:00 p.m. with all members of the Board present and with staff 
attendance approximately the same as during the Euro-dollar discussion 
at the morning session. 
Discussion continued with respect to a possible amendment to 
Regulation D designed to meet the problem of reductions in reserve 
requirements achieved by some banks through their handling of Euro-
dollar transactions. It was noted that there had now been distributed 
to the members of the Board copies of a memorandum prepared by a staff 
member of the New York Bank and entitled "The 'inverted Reserve 
Requirement'--Some Startling Possibilities." This memorandum explored 
some of the implications of exploitation of the deductibility pro-
vision if it were carried to an extreme. 
In addition, Mr. Holland reported that staff members were 
in the process of drafting a press release that might be used in the 
event the Board decided to publish the proposed amendment. He also 
noted that he had talked with both the Manager and the Special Manager 
of the Open Market Account regarding the question of timing. They 
felt that Thursday afternoon would be a satisfactory time for release 
of an announcement, since the market would then have a long holiday 
weekend in which to adjust. 

177 
5/28/69 
-19-
Goverrior Daane, who during the morning session had been 
inclined against action at this time, reported that further study had 
changed his view and that he now favored prompt publication of the 
proposed amendment, although probably with a relatively long period 
for comment. He foresaw no serious problems domestically and felt 
that some political benefits would result at the international level. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the possibilities mentioned 
in the New York staff memorandum might argue for a shorter period for 
comment. In this connection Mr. Holland reported that, while the 
analysis of probable market response by the Account Managers, as 
reported, had not necessarily been based specifically on the assump-
tion that a 60-day period for comment would be allowed, they had 
assumed that the real reserve impact would be delayed because of the 
seasonal pressures that banks would face during the month of June. 
The amendments would require fairly large adjustments by some banks. 
If pyramided on strong pressures arising from other sources, that 
could cause problems. 
It was noted that the Board could always delay implementa-
tion if market conditions so indicated, and further that some delay 
would be inevitable because of the time required for analysis of 
comments. However, other Board members stressed the importance of 
assuring banks beforehand that the reserve impact would not come until 
after the June period. It was agreed, in view of all the consider-
ations involved, that a 45-day period for receipt of comment would 

1780 
5/28/69 
-20-
be appropriate. On that basis, the Board authorized publication of 
the proposed amendment for comment, with the understanding that a 
press release would be issued tomorrow afternoon. 
Mr. Molony distributed a first draft of a press release, 
regarding which Board members made editorial suggestions. Technical 
questions were also raised with respect to the regulatory language. 
It was agreed that the documents would be worked on further by the 
staff and presented for final consideration tomorrow morning. 
Mr. Robert Solomon then commented that, while this action 
would clearly have some psychological effect on the Euro-dollar 
market, its impact would be far less than that which would have 
resulted from the other proposals pending before the Board. While 
not wishing to reopen consideration of the other proposals, which 
the Board had chosen to defer for the present, he felt that he must 
note the serious concern of various staff members, especially the 
Special Manager, regarding near-term prospects in the Euro-dollar 
market. If the pressures foreseen for June developed as expected, 
they could result in a massive inflow of Euro-dollars. The actions 
°f U.S. banks had already created conditions in Europe tighter than 
would otherwise have existed and a continuation of this influence, 
Perhaps even strengthened, could have political implications. He 
therefore saw a possibility that the Board might be forced to take 
further actions in this area, perhaps on an emergency basis. 

1781 
5/28/69 
-21-
Turning to questions in the domestic sphere, and specifically 
the relation of nondeposit liabilities to Regulations D and Q, Chair-
man Martin expressed the fear that the commercial paper problem could 
grow rapidly in the absence of regulatory action, and Governor 
Robertson concurred. Mr. Hexter pointed to the number of requests 
being received by the Securities and Exchange Commission from one-
bank holding companies (and a few registered bank holding companies) 
for "no-action" letters as indicative of increasing interest in the 
issuance of commercial paper. 
It was noted that the Board had this morning authorized the 
staff to collect additional information bearing on the problem. 
However, Governor Brimmer, who agreed that the problem was constantly 
becoming more acute, felt that further extensive study could only 
delay needed action. He urged that the staff bring forward specific 
proposals for dealing with the problem in time for consideration on 
the next date when a full Board could be assembled. Mr. Partee noted 
that the collection of information, as authorized earlier, would be a 
necessary part of formulating such proposals, and it was agreed that 
this project should move forward. 
Governor Maisel urged that the proposals not be limited to 
the commercial paper issue, but also address the question of contin-
gent liabilities, which he viewed as serious. He suggested that the 
staff investigate the possibility of requiring contingent liabilities 
to be shown on the call report. 

1782 
•t. 
5/28/69 
-22-
Also in connection with the call report, Mr. Partee noted that 
the Comptroller of the Currency now intended that the national bank 
call report would explicitly define sales of loans and repurchase 
agreements as sales of assets. 
Mr. Holland noted at this point that he and Mr. Leavitt had 
been discussing the possibility of initiating discussions with staff 
members of other agencies regarding regulatory and statistical treat-
ment of the various nondeposit arrangements banks were using or 
planned to use for raising funds, and the Board indicated general 
agreement with the plan. 
Although Governor Mitchell did not oppose the various sugges-
tions for study and discussion, he argued that when a bank chose to 
act in a nonbank capacity it should be allowed to do so on the same 
footing as its nonbank rivals, subject to the competition of the 
market place. 
Governor Brimmer, on the other hand, argued that banks held 
a unique status that must be preserved in all their dealings. 
It was the consensus that the new methods of raising funds 
had regulatory and supervisory implications to which the System must 
be attentive. Chairman Martin noted in this connection the very high 
loan-deposit ratios of some banks and suggested that in some cases 
they might be so high as to raise questions of solvency. 
Governor 
Brimmer added, however, that banks were apparently comfortable with 

i ytj*.^ 
5/28/69 
-23-
these high ratios, in part because of their increasing ability to lay 
off loanso He suggested the need for improved measuring devices in 
this area. 
Differences persisted on whether there were also implications 
bearing on the System's responsibilities as the central monetary 
authority. As noted, Governor Mitchell felt that the System should 
confine its attention in this area to overall monetary creation. 
However, most other Board members felt that the new innovations did 
have a special influence on credit flows and could cause a much more 
rapid expansion of credit. 
It was agreed that fundamental principles were at issue and 
that a great deal of further consideration was called for. However, 
the discussion was not pursued further at this time. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1784 
Item No. 1 
5/28/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MIDWEST BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of 
®ore than 80 per cent of the voting shares 
of Laurel Bank, Raytown, Missouri, and 
Platte Woods Bank, Platte Woods, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Midwest Bancorporation, 
Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, for the Board's prior approval of action 
thereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acqui-
Qition of more than 80 per cent of the voting shares of Laurel Bank, 
Raytown, Missouri, and Platte Woods Bank, Platte Woods, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
Notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Finance of 

- 2 -
1785 
the State of Missouri and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 10, 1969 (34 Federal Register 1572), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli«. 
cation was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of the Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 28th day of May, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, K&iael, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1786 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MIDWEST BANCORPORATION, INC., KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Midwest Bancorporation, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
of action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
more than 80 per cent of the voting shares of Laurel Bank, Raytown, 
Missouri, and of Platte Woods Bank, Platte Woods, Missouri. The two 
banks named are sometimes hereafter referred to as the "Banks". 
Laurel Bank ($11.1 million deposits)~^and Platte Woods Bank 
($3.7 million deposits) are located in the Kansas City Standard Metro-
politan Statistical Area, and, at mid-year 1968, ranked 65th and 106th 
in size, respectively, of the 123 banks in that area. The laws of 
Missouri prohibit branch banking, and each of the Banks has only one 
office. A substantial degree of common ownership exists between them -
two individuals who are executives of both Banks own, in the aggregate, 
35.2 per cent of the outstanding stock of Laurel Bank and 30.1 per cent 
of that of Platte Woods Bank. 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1968, unless otherwise noted. 

1787 
-2-
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
application was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, 
the Commissioner of Finance of the State of Missouri. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board find3 that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Upon consummation 
the proposed transaction, Applicant would become the State's fifth 
bank holding company, ranking fourth among such organizations, with 
control of .13 per cent of total deposits of all banks in Missouri. All 
bank holding companies would then control 10.3 per cent of such deposits. 

1788 
-3-
The Banks are located 24 miles apart on opposite sides of 
metropolitan Kansas City, with some 50 banks intervening. There is 
no competition between the Banks. Laurel Bank ranks third in size 
of four banks in its service area; and, in its service area, Platte 
Woods Bank ranks second in size of three banks. Consummation of the 
transaction would increase but slightly the low degree of deposits 
concentration in holding companies in Missouri and the Kansas City 
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area. 
In addition to the aforedescribed common ownership of the 
Banks, their managements interlock to some extent, and the Banks have 
been operated jointly to a limited degree. Inasmuch as the chief effect 
of Applicant's proposal would be a change in the form of an existing 
relationship, the extent and nature of competition between the Banks 
end other area banks would not be significantly altered, nor would 
there be any reduction in the number of banking alternatives in any of 
the relevant areas. Moreover, the distance between the Banks, and the 
State's prohibition of branch banking make it highly unlikely that any 
Potential competition might develop between the Banks that would be 
foreclosed by consummation of the proposal. 
On the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, nor be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any relevant area. Further, there appears to be 
reasonable probability that consummation of the proposal would sub-
stantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or operate 
in restraint of trade. 

1789 
-4-
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects, -
Applicant has no operating history. Its projected financial condition 
is regarded as satisfactory, as is its management, which will be taken 
from the Banks. As applied to the Banks, these factors are considered 
satisfactory. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the individuals and businesses located in the areas 
served by the Banks appear to be adequately served at present by the 
Banks and their competitors. Considerations relating to these factors 
are consistent with approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
May 28, 1969. 

1780 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
5/28/69 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 S 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 29, 1969 
Mr. Frederic M. Peirce, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Fred: 
This letter is to inform you that the Board, on May 28, 
1969, voted to disapprove the pending increase in your Bank's 
discount rate to 7 per cent which was established by your board 
of directors on May 22, 1969. This disapproval, of course, was 
also applicable to the rates established under the last paragraph 
of section 13 and under section 10(b). 
The Board's action was taken in the belief that prevailing 
financial conditions and uncertainties make an increase in the 
discount rate untimely at present. These conditions also led the 
Board to deem it advisable to disapprove the higher rate rather than 
to hold it in abeyance. 
Sincerely 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
