MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 31, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 3 Amendment to Supplement III to Regulation Z, 
Truth in Lending. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 31, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on October 24 and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and 
Dallas on October 26, 1972, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
(Note: The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta had also established 
a special rate of 4-1/2 per cent on advances to nonmember banks under the 

3057 
10/31/72 
-2-
last paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. The Secretary 
of the Board informed the Reserve Bank of the Board's approval of that 
rate in situations where the liquidity of such banks and their ability 
to serve the community were impaired by the implementation of Regulation J.) 
As recommended in a memorandum from Governor Sheehan dated 
October 26, 1972, the Board unanimously approved a program change request 
by the Division of Data Processing for permission to exercise the purchase 
option in the three-year full payout lease for the Gerber 722 Automatic 
Drafting System. 
The Board unanimously approved a recommendation by the Banking 
Markets Section in a memorandum dated October 20, 1972, that the Board 
Publish for comment a preliminary determination regarding the status of 
the following bank holding companies under the grandfather provisions of 
the Bank Holding Company Act: Amalgamated Associates Company, Chicago, 
Illinois; Amalgamated Investments Company, Chicago, Illinois; First Highland 
Corporation, Highland Park, Illinois; Financial Network Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin; and Bankshares of Indiana, Inc., Merrillville, 
Indiana, (formerly Indiana Industries, Inc., Gary, Indiana). 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Boston Overseas 
Financial Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, to continue to hold shares 
of Colina do Farol Administracao e Empreendimentos S.A., Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil, after the latter makes certain investments and issues debt obli-
gations with maturities in excess of one year. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 

3058 
10/31/72 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Empire 
State Corporation, Buffalo, New York, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to The First National Bank of Highland, Highland, New York, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Chase 
Manhattan Corporation, New York, New YOrk, to acquire shares of Chase 
Manhattan Bank of Greater Rochester (National Association), Caledonia, 
New York, the successor by merger to Bank of Caledonia, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Allied Bancshares, 
Inc., Houston, Texas, to become a bank holding company through the acquisi-
tion of shares of the successors by reorganization to the following Texas 
banks: Conroe Bank, Conroe; Continental Bank, Houston; and Merchants Bank, 
Port Arthur. The Board also authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated October 27, 1972, the Board unanimously approved 
exemption of the State of Wyoming from certain provisions of the Truth in 
Lending Act, effective November 6, 1972. A copy of the amendment to 
Supplement III to Regulation Z is attached as Item No. 5. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
October 27, 1972, the Board granted an extension of time for Family Finance 

3053 
10/31/72 
-4-
Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware, to file its annual report as a 
bank holding company. A copy of the letter sent to the corporation 
is attached as Item No, 6 . 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Pennsyl-
vania Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to acquire the assets of 
American Loan and Finance Company, Hamilton, Ohio, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
as Item No. 7. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
FOHC policy record. 
In a memorandum dated November 30, 1972, 
Mr. Holland stated that the policy record entry for the meeting of the 
Federal Open Market Committee held on August 15, 1972, was being brought 
to the Board in view of a question raised by Governor Daane with respect 
to the clarity of the summary of the Committee's policy consensus. 
Governor Daane was concerned specifically with the adequacy of a clause 
regarding money market conditions. He felt that the possibility of a 
more explicit statement of the Committee's consensus should be considered. 
In his memorandum Mr. Holland suggested a possible revision of 
the paragraph in question, and discussion indicated agreement with his 
suggestion. 
The Board agreed to the changes proposed by Mr. Holland. 
It was 
understood that the revised entry would be distributed to the Reserve Bank 
Presidents with an indication of the date by which any further comments 

30 GO 
10/31/72 
-5-
should be received, and that it was scheduled for release to the press 
about November 13, 1972, after final review. 
Those who joined the meeting at this point included: 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Sullivan and Cochran of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Marine Midland. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of Marine Midland International Corporation, New York, New York, to 
continue to hold the shares of Marine Midland, Inc., New York, New York, 
and indirectly the shares of International Marine Banking Company, Ltd., 
London, England, after the latter (1) acquires shares of International 
Ship Finance (Panama) Inc., London, England, and (2) issues certain debt 
obligations. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 8. 
First National City. 
In memoranda dated October 11 and 19, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of (1) the 
application of First National City Corporation, New York, New York, to 

3061 
10/31/72 
-6-
purchase through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Citicorp Leasing Interna-
tional, Inc., shares of Citilease Internacional, S.A., Madrid, Spain, 
a finance-leasing company; and (2) the application of First National City 
Bank (International-Houston), Houston, Texas, for permission to borrow 
from the Export-Import up to $10 million, with maturities in excess of 
one year. 
Attached to a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation dated October 30, 1972, was a draft letter to First National 
City Corporation expressing concern with respect to the capital position 
of the holding company's lead bank, First National City Bank, and notifying 
the corporation that no further applications on behalf of either First 
National City Corporation or First National City Bank would be acted on 
until the Board had been informed in writing of plans for additions to the 
equity capital of First National City Bank. The Board had discussed the 
bank's capital position at several meetings, most recently on October 26, 
1972. At today's meeting Mr. Leavitt said that Messrs. Howard and Stewart 
of First National City Bank were to meet with members of the Board's staff 
today to discuss the bank's capital improvement program. 
A majority of the Board favored approval of the two applications, 
although Governor Brimmer said he would prefer not to act on any appli-
cations until a satisfactory capital improvement program had been agreed 
upon. 
At the conclusion of this part of the discussion, Governor Brimmer's 
view having been noted, the Board approved the applications. Copies of 
the letters sent to the applicants are attached as Items 9 and 10. 

10/31/72 
-7-
(A letter was also sent today to First National City Corporation reflecting 
the Board's action on October 26 approving the continued holding of shares 
of Inversiones Citycol, S.A., Bogota, Colombia. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 11.) 
Discussion then turned to the draft letter to First National City 
Corporation regarding action on further applications. 
It was suggested 
that the Board not make a decision about the processing of applications 
until after the staff's meeting with Messrs. Howard and Stewart. 
However, 
discussion developed a consensus for sending the letter today. 
The Board approved transmittal of the letter, with the under-
standing that revisions suggested during today's discussion would be made. 
A copy of the letter in the form sent to First National City Corporation 
is attached as Item No. 12. 
Shell branches. The following applications to establish branches 
in Nassau, Bahamas, were approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting 
with respect to each and Governor Bucher abstaining with respect to the 
application of United California Bank. Copies of the letters sent to the 
applicants are attached as indicated. 
Item No. 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, 
New York, New York 
13 
Continental Illinois National Bank and 
Trust Company of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 
14 
United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California 
15 

30 G3 
10/31/72 
-8-
The following applications to establish branches in Grand Cayman, 
Cayman Islands, were approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting 
with respect to each. Copies of the letters sent to the applicant are 
attached as indicated. 
Item No. 
Irving Trust Company, 
16 
New York, New York 
The Northern Trust Company, 
17 
Chicago, Illinois 
Regulation A. On August 15, 1972, the Board had agreed that a 
proposed revision of Regulation A, Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve 
Banks, would be published for comment about mid-October, after implementation 
of amendments to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation J, 
Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks. 
In a memo-
randum dated October 26, 1972, the Regulation A Task Force recommended 
publication of the proposed amendments on November 15, 1972. 
At today's meeting Chairman Burns said that he would prefer not 
to act today to set a publication date three weeks in advance, and he 
suggested that the Board defer action until mid-November. 
Action was deferred, with the understanding that the Board would 
consider the matter further about November 22. 
Committee on Reserve Bank lending. 
In a memorandum dated October 26, 
1972, the Office of Executive Director recommended approval of the formation 
a committee on Reserve Bank lending, designation of its members, and 
approval of a letter to the Reserve Banks regarding the committee. 

3064 
10/31/72 
-9-
Discussion indicated no opposition to formation of the committee; 
however, it was suggested that the Board discuss the draft letter with 
the Reserve Bank Presidents. 
Action was deferred, with the understanding that the Reserve Bank 
Presidents would be given an opportunity to comment on the draft letter, 
and that the Board would consider the matter further about November 22. 
Southern National Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated October 11, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of 
the application of Southern National Corporation, Lumber ton, North Carolina, 
to acquire shares of Citizens Realty and Insurance Agency, Inc., Roanoke 
Rapids, North Carolina. 
The Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond also recommended denial. 
Several questions were raised with respect to the application, and 
the Board deferred action with the understanding that the staff would 
provide additional information. 
First International Bancshares. 
In a memorandum dated October 26, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of the 
successors to First National Bank in Dallas and Houston-Citizens Bank & 
Trust Company, Houston, Texas. Related applications included (1) the 
application of Jefferson Street State Bank, Houston, a nonoperating bank, 
to merge with Houston-Citizens Bank & Trust Company; (2) the application 

3065 
10/31/72 
-10-
of Jefferson Street State Bank for membership in the Federal Reserve 
System; and (3) the application of Perpetual Corporation, Los Angeles, 
California, to acquire shares of First International Bancshares, Inc. 
As an incident to the acquisition of First National Bank in Dallas and 
Houston-Citizens Bank & Trust Company, First International Bancshares 
would (a) acquire indirect control of 26.4 per cent of the voting shares 
of Guaranty Bank, Dallas; (b) acquire indirectly through First National 
Securities Company in Dallas (a trusteed affiliate of First National Bank 
in Dallas) an interest in 13 Texas banks; and (c) acquire indirectly 
through HB&T Stockholders Company, Houston (a trusteed affiliate of 
Houston-Citizens Bank & Trust Company), a 6.7 per cent interest in First 
Alief Bank, Alief, Texas. The Banking Markets Section recommended denial 
of the applications, while the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas recommended 
approval. 
During today's discussion Governors Robertson and Brimmer indicated 
that they favored denial of the applications. 
They thought that the 
formation of First International Bancshares would have an adverse effect 
on future competition and that the adverse competitive effects were not 
outweighed by public benefit considerations. 
The Board approved the applications, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting. 
It was understood that implementing documents would 
be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
First City Bancorporation of Texas. 
In a memorandum dated 
September 20, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 

3066 
10/31/72 
-11-
denial of the applications of First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., 
Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of the successors to South Main Bank, 
Houston, and Heights State Bank, Houston; and approval of the applications 
of First City Bancorporation to acquire shares of the successors to Highland 
Village State Bank, Houston, and First State Bank of Clear Lake City, 
Clear Lake City, Texas. Approval of the Highland Village and Clear Lake 
applications would be conditioned upon applicant's divestiture of all 
except 5 per cent of its ownership interest in, and termination of its 
interlocking officer and director relationships with, South Main Bank 
and Heights State Bank. The Banking Markets Section concurred in the 
Division's recommendations, while the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas recom-
mended unconditional approval of all applications. 
The Board denied the applications to acquire the successors to 
south Main Bank and Heights State Bank, Governors Daane and Sheehan 
dissenting. 
The Board approved the applications to acquire the successors to 
Highland Village State Bank and First State Bank of Clear Lake City, subject 
to the conditions recommended by the staff. Although Governors Daane and 
Sheehan approved the acquisition of the two banks, they dissented from the 
conditional requirement that applicant divest itself of all but 5 per cent 
of the stock of South Main Bank and Heights State Bank. 
It was understood that documents implementing the foregoing 
decisions would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 

3067 
10/31/72 
-12-
First Florida Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum dated October 25, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of 
the application of First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, to merge 
with United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Miami Beach, Florida. The Banking 
Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta also recommended 
denial. 
The application was denied unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order reflecting that decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Payments mechanism. 
In a memorandum dated October 27, 1972, 
Governor Mitchell recommended that the Board accept, subject to certain 
modifications, a proposal by TRW Systems Application Center, Redondo Beach, 
California, to complete the handover of the Payments Mechanism Computerized 
Model (Phase III). 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation. 
A copy of the 
letter sent to TRW Systems is attached as Item No. 18. A copy of a letter 
sent by Governor Mitchell to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
is attached as Item No. 19. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Selection of audit firm. 
In a memorandum dated October 10, 197 2, 
Messrs. Kakalec and Kiley discussed the selection of a new accounting 
firm to perform financial audits of the Board's books and procedural reviews 

30G8 
10/31/72 
-13-
of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations field staff in its 
examination of the Reserve Banks. 
At today's meeting Messrs. Kakalec and Kiley recommended that the 
Board select Touche Ross & Co. to perform its financial and procedural 
audits for the next five-year period. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation. 
A copy of 
the letter sent to Touche Ross & Co. is attached as Item No. 20. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3069 
•ii^vv. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N G R B 
CJF 
T H E 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
10/31/72 
W A S H I N G T O N ' . 
D. 
C. 
aOSH 
A D D R E S S 
D - t l U I A L 
l O M f l t S P U N D t N C E 
T i l 
7 r l F: 
D C I A K D 
October 31, 3 972 
Boston Overseas Financial Cor po r a t x oil 
0. Box 17S4 
Boston, Massachusetts 02105 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of February 22, 1972, and 
subsequent dates, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation, ("B0FC") , to continue to hold the shares of Colin?. 
Ci° FaroJ. Administracao e Empreendimentos S.A. , ("Colina") , Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil, after Colina (1) acquires all of the stock of 
Karnauba S.A, Administracao e Participates, ("Karnauba"), Sao Paulo, 
Brazil ^ which holds or will hold up to 50 per cent of the preferred 
anu/or voting shares of Banco Comercial da Producao S.A,, ("COP"), 
Beleni, Brazil, (2) continues to hold 100 per cent of Bui'alo 
^dministradora Ltda., ("Bufalo"), acquired at a cost of $8,000 and 
Without the required prior Board consent, and (3) after BCP Issues 
UP to $30,000,000 in obligations with maturities in excess of one 
year and Colina and/or its other subsidiaries issues up to 
$15,000,000 of similar obligations, provided the shares are acquired 
Vitl lin one year from the date of this letter. 
In this connection, 
approval is also granted for the purchase and holding of shares of 
kCP by your Corporation in excess of the applicable limitations set 
f°rth j.n the provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the 
^sderal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
of shares of Karnauba by BOFC is granted subject to the 
1 owj.uft co nd i t i uns: 
(1) That BOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Karnauba if Karnauba at 
any time fails to restrict its activities to chose 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(H) of the Federal Reserve 
Act ceuJd, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or If Karruvaba establishes 
any branch or: agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to BOFC; 

3070 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
-2-
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
BOFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of Karnauba as it may 
require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Karnauba be reported under Section 2.11.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Karnauba 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That BOFC shall not carry on its books, directly 
or indirectly, the shares of Karnauba at a net 
amount in excess of its proportionate share, of the 
book capital accounts of Karnauba, after giving 
effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
^spends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
o f 
immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
^l&te to restrictions on loans granted by Karnauba in Brazil in the 
currency of that country. 
i 
The Board's consents to the proposed indirect purchase and 
,J°ldj.ng of shares of Bufalq and BC15 are granted subject to the same 
^-'nditiens as set forth in the immediately preceding two paragraphs, 
Su-l*£t ituting Bufalo and BCP, respectively, for Karnauba. 
The foregoing consents are given on the condition that the 
ac^uisit.ions will be made with the resources of Colina and/or Karnauba 
will not involve any transfer of funds, either directly or in-
irectly, from the United States. 
Very tru1y you rs, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3071 
Item No. 2 
10/31/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Empire State Corporation, Buffalo, New York, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' quali-
fying shares) of the successor by merger to the First National Bank of 
highland, Highland, New York ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to 
be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acqui-
sition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
shares of the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed 
acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the sixteenth largest banking organization in New 
Y°rk, has two subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of approximately 
$1.1 billion, representing 1.1 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
banks in the State. 
Acquisition of Bank by Applicant would increase its 
Statewide share of deposits by only .1 percentage points and Applicant 
^ 
Deposit data are as of December 31, 1971. Market rank and share are 
a s of June 30, 1970. 

3072 
-2-
would remain the sixteenth largest banking organization in New York. 
Bank, 
i s the fifth largest of 29 banks in the mid-Hudson banking market, which is 
aPproximated by Dutchess, Putnam, and Ulster Counties and the Newburgh area 
o f Orange County. 
It has deposits of $63 million and controls approximately 
6.6 per cent of commercial deposits in that market. 
The nearest subsidiary banking office of Applicant to Bank is 
^ P ire-New York, New York City ("Empire Bank"), located approximately 60 
miles away from Bank. Applicant's lead bank, Manufacturers and Traders 
Trust Company, Buffalo, Mew York ("M&T Bank"), is located about 285 miles 
Bank. Bank derives less than .1 per cent of its loans and deposits 
from M&T Bank's and Empire Bank's services areas,' and M&T Bank and Empire 
Bank derive no deposits and virtually no loans from Bank's service area. 
Accordingly, consummation of the proposed acquisition would not eliminate 
any significant existing competition. 
Bank is located in the Third Banking District. 
Applicant's 
listing subsidiary banks are prohibited by State law, until 1976, from 
Ranching into that District. 
It does not appear likely that Applicant 
choose to enter Bank's market de novo because of the distance separating 
Bank from Applicant's banks and the intense competition in Bank's market. 
^Vthermore, Applicant's acquisition of Bank would have the pro-competitive 
of removing home office protection from Highland, New York. Accordingly, 
n° significant potential competition would be foreclosed upon consummation 
0 f this proposal. The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
0 f Applicant, its existing subsidiaries and Bank are generally satisfactory 
atl(* consistent with approval. 

I ' 
3073 
Applicant proposes to offer new and improved services at Bank if 
this application is approved. Applicant would add increased capacity to 
Service large corporate customers, expanded services to local governmental 
units, the development of international banking services, and the develop-
ment of automated services, to the services Bank presently offers. Although 
there is no evidence that the banking needs of the communities to be served 
are not being adequately met at present, Bank would become an alternative 
competitive source for specialized banking services. Accordingly, consid-
erations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served are consistent with approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction is in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 31, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

3074 
Item No. 3 
10/31/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
folding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less direc-
tors' qualifying shares) of Chase Manhattan Bank of Greater Rochester 
(National Association), Caledonia, New York,~ the successor by merger 
t o Bank of Caledonia, Caledonia, New York ("Bank")* Chase Manhattan 
Bank of Greater Rochester (National Association), Caledonia, New York, 
has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of 
the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of 
share s of the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed 
acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accord-
ance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views 
has expired, and the Board has considered the application and all 
c°mnients received in light of the factors set forth in § 3( c) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Subsequent to publication of notice, Applicant changed the name of 
he surviving bank from Chase Manhattan Bank of the Genesee Valley 
Rational Association) to Chase Manhattan Bank of Greater Rochester 
National Association). 

-2-
3075 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in New York 
2/ 
in terms of domestic deposits, controls two subsidiary banks 
with 
aggregate deposits of approximately $13.6 billion, representing 14.1 
Per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
(Un-
less otherwise noted, deposit data are as of December 31, 1971, and 
market data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect bank holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
September 30, 1972.) Consummation of the proposal would not signifi-
cantly increase Applicant's share of deposits in the State. 
Bank ($8.8 million in deposits) is the tenth largest of 16 
banks in the Rochester banking market, controlling 0.5 per cent of the 
deposits in that market. The nearest office of one of Applicant's 
operating banking subsidiaries is approximately 320 miles southeast of 
Caledonia and there is no significant existing competition between this 
or any other of Applicant's subsidiaries, Applicant's acquisition of 
Bank would have a procompetitive effect since Bank, with Applicant's 
support, should compete more aggressively with the four largest banks 
in the market, all of which are affiliated with bank holding companies 
and control in the aggregate nearly 92 per cent of area deposits. 
Consummation of the proposal would have no adverse effects on existing 
potential competition nor would it have any adverse effect on any 
competing bank. 
X/ On August 10, 1972, the Board of Governors announced its approval 
°f Applicant's plan to acquire a third bank, Chase Manhattan Bank of 
Central New York (National Association), Syracuse, New York, a proposed 
new bank. 

3078 
-2-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are satisfactory and consistent 
with approval. The banking needs of the communities involved are being 
adequately met at present, However, Applicant proposes to provide, 
through Bank, an alternative source of specialized banking needs. There-
fore, considerations relating to convenience and needs lend some weight 
toward approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 
"*culd be in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
Applicant owns two nonbanking subsidiaries, Berkeley Service 
Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, and Dovenmuehle, Inc,, Chicago, 
Illinois, which were acquired on June 4, 1969, and December 19, 1969, 
respectively. Berkeley Service Corporation is a service agency for the 
Shapiro Factors Division of The Chase Manhattan Bank, and Dovenmuehle, 
is a mortgage servicing company. 
In making its determination herein, the Board has relied upon 
a finding that the combination of an additional subsidiary bank with 
Applicant's existing nonbanking subsidiaries is unlikely to have an 
Averse effect upon the public interest at the present time. However, 
applicant's banking and nonbanking activities remain subject to Board 
teview and the Board retains the authority to require Applicant to 
Modify or terminate its nonbanking activities or holdings if the Board 
a t any time determines that the combination of Applicant's banking and 
nonbanking activities is likely to have adverse effects on the public 
M e r e s t , 

3077 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective October 31, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

3078 
Item No. 4 
10/31/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ALLIED BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Allied Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(1)) of formation of a bank hold-
ing company through acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successors 
to the assets and liabilities of Conroe Bank, Conroe, Texas; 
of Continental Bank, Houston, Texas; and of Merchants Bank, 
Port Arthur, Texas (hereinafter collectively referred to as 
"Banks"). The banks which will succeed to the assets and 
liabilities of Banks have no significance other than as a means 
to facilitate the acquisition of the assets and the assumption 
of liabilities of Banks. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
°f shares of the successor organizations is treated herein as 
a proposed acquisition of the assets and assumption of liabilities 
°f Banks. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with 5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and none have been timely received. 
The Board has considered the application in light of the factors 
set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(c)). 

3079 
-2-
Applicant was recently formed for the purpose of 
acquiring Banks. Upon acquisition of Conroe Bank (deposits of 
$26 million), Continental Bank (deposits of $125 million), and 
Merchants Bank (deposits of $63 million), Applicant would become 
the eighth largest multi-bank holding company in the State, con-
trolling 0.7 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(Banking data are as of December 31, 1971, unless otherwise 
noted, and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved through August 21, 1972.) 
Conroe Bank and Continental Bank are the 43th and 9th 
largest, respectively, of the 149 commercial banks operating in 
the Houston banking market, approximated by the five-county area 
constituting the Houston Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area 
("SIISA"), and hold 0.4 and 1.79 per cent, respectively, of 
deposits in commercial banks in that market. Merchants Bank 
is the fourth largest of twenty banks in the adjacent Beaumont-
Port Arthur-Orange banking market, approximated by the Beaumont-
Port Arthur-Orange SMSA, and holds 10 per cent of deposits in 
commercial banks in this area. 
Although Conroe Bank and Continental Bank operate in 
the same market, consummation of the proposed transactions would 
not appear to have a significant adverse effect upon existing 
competition between the two banks. A distance of approximately 

-3-
3080 
forty miles separates the two banks and there are approximately 
eight banks located in the intervening area. Furthermore, there 
appears to exist a degree of affiliation between Conroe Bank and 
Continental Bank. Directors and officers of Applicant own approx-
imately 25 per cent of the shares of the former and 37 per cent 
of the shares of the latter. The two chief officers of Continental 
Bank are both former directors of Conroe Bank and are consulted 
on items of major importance to Conroe Bank. Merchants Bank, 
located ninety miles east of Houston, does not appear to compete 
significantly with either Conroe Bank or Continental Bank. The 
Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
will not have a significantly adverse effect upon existing com-
petition in either the Houston or Beaumont-Port Arthur-Orange 
banking markets. 
Nor does it appear that consummation of the proposed 
transaction would foreclose the development of competition among 
Banks. Texas law effectively prohibits each of the three banks 
from establishing branch offices in the vicinity of the other 
two, and there appears to be little prospect for disaffiliation 
among Banks. In any case, neither Conroe Bank, nor Merchants 
Bank is of sufficient size to form its own independent bank 
holding company. Applicant's acquisition of Conroe Bank may 
be viewed as a "foothold" entry into the northern periphery of 
the Houston market. Although Applicant's acquisition of Merchants 
Bank, in effect, represents entry by the ninth largest bank in 
the Houston market into an adjacent market, the acquisition should 

3081 
-2-
not have a significant adverse effect on potential competition 
in the Beaumont-Port Arthur-Orange banking market. That market 
is not particularly attractive for entry as evidenced by only a 
slight gain in population over the past decade, consistently 
high rates of unemployment, and a population-per-banlcing-office 
ratio approximating the average ratio for all Texas SMSAs. Con-
summation of the proposal is expected to have a beneficial effect 
upon the development of competition in both the Houston and 
Beaumont-Port Arthur-Orange banking markets in that it would 
enhance the ability of Banks, none of which are dominant in 
their respective markets, to compete with major banks in those 
Markets which are, or have proposed to become, subsidiaries of 
the three largest multi-bank holding companies in the State. 
Applicant1s financial condition, managerial resources, 
and future prospects are dependent upon those of its proposed 
subsidiary banks. The financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of Banks are presently consistent with approval. 
Applicant will increase the capital levels of Conroe Bank and 
Continental Bank by purchasing subordinated debentures to be 
issued by those Banks. This infusion of debt capital lends 
slight weight toward approval, as does the benefit to the con-
venience and needs of the communities to be served that will 
derive from the increased flexibility inherent in a holding 

-2-
3082 
company structure. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction is in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the effective date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective October 31, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

Item No. 5 
10/31/72 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
FART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
Exemption of Certain State Regulated Transactions 
1. 
Effective November 6, 1972, Supplement III to 
Regulation Z (Section 226,12--Supplement) is amended by adding para-
graph (f) an follows: 
(f) }]y_ominjx: Excc-.pt as provided in § 226.12(c), all classe 
OJL credit transactions within the State of Wyoming are hereby granted 
ftri exemption frora the requirements of Chapter 2 of the Truth in 
Lending Act. effective November 6, 1972, with the following exceptions: 
(1) Transactions iri which a federally chartered institution 
is a creditor; 
(2) Consumer credit; sales of insurance by an insurer in 
vbj.ch the insurer is a creditor; 
(3) Transactions in which a common carrier is a creditor; 
find, 

3 0 8 4 
-2-
(4) Consumer loan transactions in which a licensed pawn-
broker is a creditor. 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to exempt certain 
credit transactions in the State of Wyoming from the requirements of 
Chapter 2 of the Truth in Lending Act (Title I of the Consumer Credit 
Protection Act (15 U.S.C. § 1601ff)). 
b. 
Pursuant to the provisions of ]2 CFR 226.12 (Supplement II 
to Part 226 (Regulation Z)), the State of Wyoming applied to the Board 
for an exemption from the Truth in Lending Act; notice cf reccipt of 
the application was published in the Egderal Register of August 10, 1972, 
(37 F.R. 16134). The Board granted this exemption after consideration 
all relevant material, including communications from interested persons, 
the effective date of the exemption was deferred for less than the 30-day 
Period referred to in section 553(d) of Title 5, United States Code. 
The 
Board found that the amendment essentially involves no change in a sub-
stantive rule and deferral of the date beyond that adopted by the Board 
would serve no useful purpose. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 31, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A, Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

3085 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
OF THE 
10/31/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
2C551 
^ • " • D R C a S 
U r r t U I A L 
C r i U H f S P n N U F . N C f 
T O 
T H E 
B U A R D 
October 31, 1972 
Mr. V7al t e r F. Emmon s 
Secretary 
Family Finance Corporation 
0." Box 2210 
Miami} Florida 
33140 
Dear Mr. Emmons: 
I am writing with regard to your letter of October 11, in 
which you request that Family Finance Corporation, which presently 
ovns the North Shore Bank and Banking Company be granted an extension, 
of time to file an annual report with the Board of Governors? until 
G'lxi v (60) days after Board action on the application of C^ntury 
Bancorp., Inc., Somerville, Massachusetts, to acquire the North Shore 
Sank and Banking Company, 
The Board has decided to ^rant your request for an extension 
of time to file an annual report, until sixty (60) days after the Board 
has taken final action on Century Bancorp.'s application. 
In addition, the Eoard has decided to stay action on your 
section 4(d) application until after the Board has taken final action 
on Century Bancorp.'s application, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
jjuriU^fe: 

308* 
Item No. 7 
10/31/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST PENNSYLVANIA CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of American Loan and Finance Company 
First Pennsylvania Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under 5 4(c)(G) of the Act and 
5 225.4(b)(2) of the Boardfs Regulation Y, to acquire the assets of 
American Loan and Finance Company ("Company"), Hamilton, Ohio. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and vieus on the public interest factors, has 
heen duly published (37 Federal Register 22118). The time for filing com-
ments and vievjs has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant's banking subsidiary, First Pennsylvania Banking and 
Trust Company ("Bank"), is the second largest bank in the State of 
Pennsylvania and the largest in the Philadelphia market area, with total 
dePosits of $2.6 billion. 
Applicant also has nonbanlcing subsidiaries 
engaged principally in mortgage banking, data processing, equipment 
basing, investment advisory services, and consumer financing. 
Company is engaged in the consumer finance business from 
eleven offices located in Ohio, two in Indiana and one in Virginia, 
Company has experienced a decline in its receivables outstanding and, 
a s a result of a suit brought, by the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
placed in receivership in June, 1970. From that date until August, 
^72, Company has been operated by a court-appointed Receiver. Pro-
ceedings have now been commenced under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act, 
Banking data as of June 30, 1972. 

3087 
-2-
and Company's Trustee, with the guidance of the U. S. District Court 
for the Eastern District of Virginia, has concluded that continued 
operation of Company is not in the best interests of its creditors. 
Company's activities are consistent with the kinds of activities de-
termined by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 
225.4(a)(1)). 
Although both Applicant and Company are engaged in the con-
sumer finance business, consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
not have any significant adverse effect on existing competition. Elim-
ination of Company as an alternative source of personal loans would have 
hut minimal competitive effect due to the number of finance companies 
and banks presently competing for such loans in the respective markets, 
Nor does it appear that consummation of the proposed acquisition t;ould 
have any adverse effect on potential competition or on credit avail-
ability to independent finance companies in any relevant area. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consumma-
tion of the proposed transaction ifould result in any undue concentration 
of 
resources, unfair competition, unsound banking practices, or other 
adverse effects on the public interest. It is anticipated that Company's 
affiliation with Applicant will provide the capital and management 
strength to restore the 14 offices of Company to a viable competitive 
Position. The resulting increased competition and gains in efficiency 
l,ill add materially to the convenience and needs of the public. 

-2-
3088 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(3) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This de-
termination is subject to the conditions set forth in 5 225.4(c) of 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance x/ith the 
Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 31, 1S72. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2/ Voting for this Action: chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher, 

3 0 
s y 
B O A R D G F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e i n Nq< 
o r T H E 
10/31/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1?" 
| ® i t ; 
3 * 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
205S1 
ADnsEBB orriciAi. cosHrspuNOENcr 
T O 
T H E 
( J D A R O 
'•MlRF.C^ 
November 2, 1972 
Marine Midland International Corporation 
120 Broadway 
Nev York, New York 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in the letters of September 13 and 25, 
19/2, 
from the law firm of Sullivan and Cromwell, the Board of Governors 
grants consent for your Corporation, ("MMIC"), to continue to hold 
indirectly the shares of International Marine Banking Company, Ltd., 
("Intermarine"), London, England, after Intermarine acquires all of 
the stock of International Ship Finance (Panama) Inc., ("ISF"), 
London, England, at a cost of approximately $1,000, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board' F- consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of I'SF by MMIC is granted on the condition that 
iSF confine its activities to the particular leasing transaction 
described in the letters cited above. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
As social'.ion, and By-Laws of ISF t 
The Board also grants consent for MMIC to continue to hold 
the stock of 1SF after IS? borrows up to $3,700,000 with maturities up 
to ten years. 
The foregoing consents are given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to Marine Midland Bank-New York and its affiliates* 
Very tr u 1 y yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3090 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 9 
• F THE 
10/31/72 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L . 
C C R R E S P n U D r N C E 
T U 
T H E 
B O A R D 
£L 
October 31, 1972 
First National City Corporation 
Park Avenue 
vork, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested i n your letter of September 1, 1972, the Board of 
Governors grcints consent, pursuant t o the provisions of Section 4(c) (13) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and Section 225.4(f) 
Regulation Y, for First National City Corporation, ("FNCC"), to pur-
chase and hold 50 per cent of the shares of Citilease Internacional, S.A., 
("Citilisa"), Madrid, Spain, at a cost of approximately $800,000, provided 
such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Section 4(c)(13), 
^'•tilisa shall confine its activities to .international or foreign banking 
and other international or foreign financial operations. 
In addition, 
*'NCC shall furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activities of 
citilisa as it may require from time to tine. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
It is understood that the shares of Citilisa are to be acquired 
through your wholly-owned subsidiary, Citicorp Leasing International, Inc.,, 
("CLI") 0 
Your application did not request a determination that the con-
tinued* holding by your Corporation of the shares of CLI would be appre-
ciate under Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act and this 
"c°nsent is not to be construed as constituting such a determination. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Beard 

3091 
B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 10 
10/31/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
' K M * 
A D D f i E S B 
G r F I C I A I . . 
C U R B t S P D N O F N C E 
- 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 31, 1972 
First National City Bank 
(International-Houston) 
1200 Milam Street 
Houston, Texas 
77002 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 19, 
1972, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to issue and have outstanding, in accordance 
with Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and 
Section 211.4 of Regulation K, promissory notes or similar 
obligations payable to the Export-Import Bank of the 
United States with maturities in excess of one year up to 
a total of $10,000,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

4 11r r 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R B 
item No. 11 
OF THE 
10/31/72 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D P E E S 
n (•>". C IAL_ 
I J D K R E r P O N D C N n E : 
• * 
. 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 31, 1972 
First National City Corporation 
3C,S Park Avenue 
York, New York 
1002.2 
•ent lemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 6, 1972, the Board of 
Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation, ("FNCC"), 
to continue to hold directly or indirectly all of the shr.res of 
Inversiones Citycol, S.A., ("IC"), Bogota, Colombia, at a cost cf 
approximately $90,600, after IC ceases to become solely j bank premises 
holding company and engages in general, financial operations in 
Colombi. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Sec-
tion 4(c) (13), IC shall confine its activities to international or 
foreign banking and other international or foreign financial op-
erations. 
In this regard, IC shall confine its data processing 
activities to the provision in Colombia of data processing services 
of the type permitted by Section 225.4(a)(8) of Regulation Y, 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

30S3 
1 
B
p 
B O A R D 
OF G O V E R N • R S 
10/31/72 
U 
• r 
T H E 
covV *. 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
I t ^ 
H * 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDHE5S nrnciAi C C I K R E E P O N O S ncl 
T P 
T M F 
O O A R D 
October 31, 1972 
First National City Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen * 
The Board today approved the following applications: 
(a) First National City Corporation to continue to hold 
indirectly Inversiones Citycol, S.A., Bogota, 
Columbia. 
(b) First National City Bank to borrow from Exira Bank 
up to $3 0 million, with maturities in excess of 
one year. 
(c) First National City Corporation to purchase stock 
o.t a new finance-leasing company, Citilease Inter-
naci.oual, Madrid, Spain. 
In approving these applications the Board again expressed 
eonc.crn with capital position of the First National City Bank as 
reflected in the Board's letter of October 135 1972. 
The Board has 
concluded that nc further applications on behalf of either First 
National City Corporation or First National City Bank will be acted 
upon until after such time as we are informed in writing of your plans 
for additions to the equity capital oi: First: National City Bank, The 
ttoard was pleased to learn that Messrs. Howard and Stewart of First 
National City Bank are. to meet with members of the Board's staff today 
discuss the equity capital position ct: First National City Bank. 
If you wish the Board to held pending applications without 
acting until after receipt of this information, please furnish us with 
a letter indicating your willingness to waive any rights you may have 
under the 91-day provisions of sections 3 and 4 of the Bank Holding 
Company Act in connecti.cn with such applications. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary ot the Board 

309 
B O A R D D P G O V E R N D R B 
OF THE 
Item No. 13 
10/31/72 
. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C . 
20531 
A D D R E S S 
c r r i a i A L 
e n * R .: s p a N D E N r. r: 
TCI T H E 
C J D A S ' D 
October 31, 1972 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust 
Company 
350 Pari; Avenue 
"Hew York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen; 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York, New 
York wwnnt 
to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Feaerai 
^escrv'- Act 
l:c establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate 
and taniutn-n such branch subject to the provisions of such Sections 
and of l i g a t i o n 11, The foregoing permission is granted subject to 
any neccssaty approval of the New York. State Banking Department. 
In ?raat5na this permission, it is understood that the branch 
W i n he usod for developing new international business and not as a 
of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United htaces. 
it i s ui eo understood that at least initially there is to be no contact 
Vith thv! local public at the branch. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
forecroiMg permission is granted subject to (1.) a continuing review of 
these ty>os of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
nod i 
the condi tion that reserves shall be maintained against 
c W t V i n this broach under Section 213.7 of Regulation H without 
benefit of rr. exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213., (b), 
and C>) the- fur the- condition that adequate information covering tne 
branch's operations will, be maintained at yo-r bead mrfice and will oe 
available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
*hc Board 
should be promptly informed of any modification in the branch a methods 
of operation from that set forth in your application. 

3093 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company 
-2-
UnJ.ess the branch is actually established and' opened for 
business on or before December 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act. deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
U n i t e d States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limita-
tions on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subjecu to the 
reserve requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these 
exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to 
compete abroad with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has 
long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System 
to discourage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches 
of. United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a d e f i n i t e , necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, fuuds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board s 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the 
balance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that 
in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be 
Placed on resources obtained outside the United States. 
Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will, be made within the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and 
af J; lliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
ii 
I 
k
. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o > 
u 
. 
" r 
1
H
1
0
/
3
1
/
7
2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
H i ? 
A D O H t f l S 
O f f I C I A ' . . 
n O R K E S i f ' D H O K K ' C E 
iu IH; HOAHC 
October 31, 1972 
Continental Illinois National Bank 
a -;d Trust; Company of Chicago 
231 South La Salle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company 
of Chicago, Chicago. Illinois, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 
of tb- Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Sect:ion and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood thae the 
bra—h will be used for developing new international business and not 
as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United 
S t a t e s . 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact w i t h the 
local public at the branch. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
forgoing permission is granted subject to (1) a 
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
i
n
g review cl" 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
modified 
(?) the condition that reserves shall be maintainea against 
deposits'in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation ri without 
benefit of the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 21.,.7(b), 
and (3) the further condition that adequate information covering the 
branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and vn.ll 
be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
Ihe ? 
Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the branch s 
methods of operation. 
I M ess the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before December 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 

303 
Continental Illinois National Bank 
and '.Crust Company of Chicago 
-2-
Please advise the Beard of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, v?hen the branch is opened for business, fur-^ 
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
or 1y at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United Slates and the District of Columbia arc exempt from any limi-
t-n-ions on rates of interest prescribed in Section L9 and Regulation Q. 
Also 
deposits at. such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and con-
tinues to be the volicy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, nec-
essary purpose in connection with foreign or international transaction* 
outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, runes 
ptc-idcd by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advunros 
or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets lor pur-
poses of'the foreign credit restraint effort. In view or the Jioard 
concern with minimizing the impact of f o r e i g n investments on the 
balance of payments, the above consent i s given on the condition thai 
in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance w i U be_ 
placed on resources obtained outside the United States. 
Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will be made within the 
F o r e i g n Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your ban* ana 
a f f j j iates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretarv of the Board 

m s 
I&T * 
3038 
B O A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
10/31/72 
D F T H E 
Item No. 15 
F E D E R A L R E B E R V E 
B Y E 5 T E M 
A'T- V 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D 
C . 
20551 
m'te: 
I l W (< / ^ 
. 
A . 
A O O M C B B 
n r r i G I A l . 
C D R R E S S P O N O E N C C 
T C 
T H E 
D f l A P n 
October 31, 1972 
United California Bank 
600 South Spring Street 
Los Angeles, California 
90054 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to United California Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 2 5 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Sections and of 
Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
w i U be used for developing new international business and not as a 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the- United States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
Modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against 
deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without 
benefit of the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), 
and (3) the further condition that adequate information covering the 
branch's operations will, be maintained at your head office dnd will 
be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The 
Board should be promptly informed, of any modification in the branch's 
methods of operation, including changes in any contract under which 
Services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before December 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
i 11 automatically terminate on that date. 

MfZ 
United California Dank 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank'of Ban Francisco, when the hi anch 
^ 
furn-f r,hi na information as to the exact location of the branch. 
n 
B^ard should also be promptly informed of any future change xn location 
of »:1K: branch in Nassau. 
, . s s r s J L A S a s a s 
ff^SF 
B
t
^
z
^
t
^
i
^
^ 
q. 
M b o " e p o s 
t such bronchos are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirement^ of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptxous 
io to flllow"foreign branches of United States banks " c o m p e t e a road 
w'tb forcien banks. Xn these circumstances, it has long been dud 
; a 
to be the p o l i c y of the Federal Reserve System " 
discourag 
d.: 
ts by United States residents at foreign branches o Un ted , Late-
banks unless such deposits have been placed t o serve 
- 
; 
' 
sary purpose in connection with foreign or international transaction., 
outside t'ne United States. 
With rcspect to the establishnent of foreign branches, funds 
provided bv home office (whether in the form of allocated capita, 
advances, or otherwise) should b, regarded as foreign resets for p « ; 
poles of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of '-i.c 
s 
copccrn with m i n t i n g the impact of foreign in vestments on no 
balance of pavments. the above consent is given on the condition .hat 
in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum rclianco « u 
pieced on resources obtained outside the United States 
Accoidingly, 
it, is understood that any investment required will 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your Lank and 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3100 
I f : 
B • A R D D :• G • V E R N • R 5 
DF THM 
Item No. 16 
l ^ f e . • 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/31/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D O H K S B 
O f 
C I C I A L 
r O H H r S P D N D r . l J C E 
• f - ' / ' / . r • 
T O 
T H E 
I? O A F ? ij 
October 31, 1972 
Xtving Trust Company 
One Hall Street 
New Yorkj New York 
10015 
Gentlemen. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Irving Trust Company, New York, New York, pursuant 
to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Sections and of Regulation K. 
The foregoing permission is 
granted subject to any necessary approval of the New York State 
Banking Department. 
In granting, this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States, It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
v/ith the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by 
another party. 
in view of the special character of this operation, the 
forgoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
of these types of facilities, and after due notico may be withdrawn 
or modified 
(2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation ti 
without benefit of the exclusion provided in proviso (1) oi: Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate infor-
mation covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your 
head office and will be available to the Board and its accredited 
representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of: any 
modification in the branch's methods of operation, including changes 
in any contract under which services are supplied to the nranch. 

3101 
Irving Trust Company 
-2~ 
Unless the branch. Is actually established and opened for 
business on or before December 1, 19/3, ail rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will, automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Guvernors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
Board should also be promptly Informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the 
reserve requirements of Regulation D. 
The general purpose of these 
exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to 
compete abroad with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has 
long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System 
to discourage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches 
of United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite 
necessary purpo.se in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board's 
concern-with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the 
balance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that 
in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be 
placed on resources obtained outside the United States. 
Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will be made within the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3102 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 17 
10/31/72 
D F 
T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
-.< 
* 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C . 
20551 
T i l 
T H f 
C t - ' A R D 
m 
^ C ^ t ' ' ' 
October 31, 1972 
- < : / : * 
ADDRE.13 ARRICIAL 
RORRCSPONOENCF 
t$/p : 
The Northern Trust Company 
Fifty South La Salle Street 
Ch i c ago, X H i no :L s 60 690 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System giants 
its permission to The Northern Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois, 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch, in Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Sections and. of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
vili bo used for developing new international business end not as a 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United State*,. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact fcitb the local 
public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping may, 
at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
going permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
types of facilities, and after due notice may bo withdrawn or modified, 
(2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
this branch under Section 21.3.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the 
further condition that adequate information covering the branch's op-
erations will be maintained at your head office and will bo available 
t;> the Hoard and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be 
Promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods of op-
eration, including changes in any contract under which services ore 
supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before December 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted w i K 
automatically terminate on that date. 

3103 
The Northern Trust Company 
»2~ 
Please advise the Board of: Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Grand Cayman. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 39 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the 
reserve requirements of Regulation D. 
The general purpose of chese 
exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to 
compote abroad with foreign banks. 
Xn these circumstances, it has 
long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System 
to discourage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches 
of United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international 
transactions outside the United States, 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Beard's concern 
Vith minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
payments, the above cons-ant is given on the condition that in the con-
duct. of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood tnat any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3104 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 18 
10/31/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C . 
20551 
A D D I J t r n S OFFICIAL COIiftESPtlNOCNl'!. 
T D "IMF BOARD 
DIKES' 
October 31, 1972 
TRW Systems Application Center 
One. Space Park 
Redondo Beach, California 
902.78 
Attention: Mr. A. V, Sommer 
Vice President and General Manager 
Gentlemen: 
The Board, of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
hereby accepts, subject to certain modifications described below, 
your proposal, "Payments Mechanism Project Phase III, A Proposal 
to Complete the Handover of the Payments Model Computer Programs 
and Documentation," dated 16 October 1972, at a cost not to 
exceed $78,065, 
The modifications to the proposal are as follows: 
1. Attachment 1 shows individual subtasks referenced by 
the same paragraph numbers as in the Phase 111 pro-
posal. 
Each paragraph will be-, implemented, revised, 
or omitted as noted in Attachment 1, 
2. TRW will commence performance under the contract on 
November 1. 
1972. 
3. The Board will be billed monthly by TRW on the basis 
of cirae and material used. 
4. Upon giving TRW fifteen days notice, the Board may 
terminate the Phase III study effort at the end ef 
any month. 
It is understood and agreed between the contracting 
parties that the "General Provisions" covering Board contracts, 
as s«t forth in Attachment "A", are hereby incorporated herein 
and form a part of this agreement. 

TRW Systems Application Centex 
3105 
It is further understood that TRW agrees to he. bound 
by the provisions of the Board's "Equal Employment: Opportunity 
Regulations--Nondiscrimination in Employment by Contractors and 
Subcontractors" to the extent applicable to it. A copy of said 
Regulations is enclosed. 
A copy of the Notice provided for in 
Section 3 of the Regulations is also enclosed for your use. 
If the proposal as modified herein meets vrith ycui: approval, 
please signify your acceptance on the enclosed copy of this letter 
and return it to the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith. 
Secretary to the Board 
Enclosures 
ACCEPTED: 
TEW, Inc. 
By: 
T i U e : 
Date: 
_ 

ATTACHMENT 1 
1 6 
Amendments to the TRW Phase III 
•Proposal to Complete the Handover of the Payments 
Model Computer Programs and Documentation, 
dated 16 OeLeber 1972, 
— 
The proposal is segmented into three work units, each of which 
will be separately noted with references to paragraph numbers. 
2.1 Work.IhliiL 
J
L
—
T
—
J
^
S
H
i
—
~ 
2.1.1 a) Provide checkpoint and restart routines. 
Implement. 
2.1.1 
Changes to simulation 
2.1.1 b) Refined selection of detailed output print 
Implement. 
d home 
2.1.1 c)__j; d). Changes to reduce disk calls in sorting and 
debit operations 
Omit. 
2.1,1_e) Add receiving calculations at nonactive zones In node-
select mode 
Implement, and make any other changes necessary to insure that 
simulation results will be correct: for any combination of sclectea nodes 
2.1.2 Incorporate ADD-ON and AVENS into MDBGEN Program 
Omit. 
2.JLJ! Allow Dynamic Simulator to process 50 zones 
Omit 
2.1.4 Refine computer report formats 
Omi t 

3107 
ATTACHMENT 1 
2,2_ Work, 1 IHIILJL-T-J'I.°nram 
Docume-n-^ 
2j_'J Update "User's Guide" 
Omit a), b) , and c). 
Computer listings will lv retained by Federal Reserve analysts 
as a result of the planned TRW training sessions to provide ample source 
•program and JCL documentation. 
2.2.1 d) Preparation of input for RCPC analysis 
Implement. 
^.2.1 e) Other program documentation to be mutually defined 
As a minimum, this wiJJ include documentation for all simulation 
output reports to be done in a manner similar to the preliminary version of 
"User1*? Guide for Steady State Model," dated 16 June 1972, where circled 
column labels arc used in Section Ill-Output, to correspond to the mathe-
matical computations in Section 1-Problem Description. 
2.2.? 
Provioe flow dia°rams 
2.2.2 a) Update the informal flows provided in Phase. IX 
Provide photocopied pages of the latest versions of flowcharts 
currently in TRW 1 s possession. 
2.2,2 b) Provide finished documentation of the "top level" flows. 
Omit for Input Processor and Simulation. 
This documentation should be included for the Master Data Base 
Generati on. 
Wor k 
_JIser_and ProgrcTOnej^/jra^iiijig 
2.3.1 Provide user training 
Most program cleanup will be completed during the first month of 
Phase III, to allow training to begin in the second month of Phase III. 
Have sessions where an RCPC problem is defined and jointly setup 
V t h VKS analysts. 
After a computer run is returned, a thorough oral aralysi 
of f'he results should be presented by TRW, with FRS analysts having the op-
po-r-M-.nity to ask auctions on how the results may be interpreted. 

-3 
3108 
ATTACHMENT 1 
Heavy training emphasis will be placed en how parameters may be 
t •/-•ho V„,c,r data base to improve the accuracy of model output 
altered in the maste. aara 
t 
, 
.fllP T,rpf. studies and 
results 
Discuss how refinements were made in previous RCiC ^ c . e 
ai 
M u n work through some example parameter changes and compare the 
belorc 
and "aftei 
report listings* 
Explain how data base may be redefined for 
alternative RCPC -studies, 
If these work sessions reveal new bugs in the source programs, 
TRW will be responsible for making the. necessary corrections to allow the 
training program to continue on schedule. _ 
2.3,2 Provide programmer training 
Alt,Lough formal pro.se.ntafions will not be given by TRW in regard 
to „ro-rammitv.> aspects, a TRW programmer or analyst will be. available, to 
the Payments Staff to insver specific programing questions on an ad hoc 
basis. 

3109 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• E C A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
WASHINGTON. D.C. 2QSSI 
CT TH E 
G E O f l C E W . M I T C H E L L 
M E M O E R O F T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 19 
10/31/72 
October 31, 1972 
Dear Sir: 
The System Steering Committee on Improving the 
Payments Mechanism has voted to contract with TRW, Inc., 
to complete the handover of the Payments Mechanism Computer 
Model and to make programming refinements that will improve 
the model's usability. 
The term of the contract is four 
months from November 1, 1972, and the total cost is not to 
exceed $78,065. 
The Board proposes to pay for this contract on 
a monthly time and material basis, and to be reimbursed 
by the Reserve Banks at the end of the contract period on 
the usual basis by which the Board receives its operating 
funds. You will be advised later of your Bank's share of 
the total cost of the contract. 
Sincerely your 
Chairman 
System Steering Committee on 
Improving the Payments Mechanism 
TO THE PRESIDENTS 03? ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3110 
S • A R D • F G G V E K N O R S 
nr Tilt. 
Item No. 20 
' E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
10/31/72 
WASHINGTON", U. C. 20551 
A I O K E £5 l i 
O F F I C I A L 
C O K M IT V- P O N D K M C F. 
r e 
T H I 
H O A R D 
November 6, 1972 
Touche Roys & Co. 
1776 K Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C0 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your proposal elated August 22, 1972, the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has selected 
your firm to perform a financial audit* of the Board's books and a 
procedural review of our field examination staff in their review 
of a Federal Reserve Bank. 
It is understood that your firm will perform these 
services for a one year period commencing, for the financial 
audit, with a report on the. Board's books as of December 31, 19/2, 
and for the field staff, on or after January 1, 1973. 
As was explained in discussion with representatives of 
your firm> no restrictions have been or will be placed by the 
Board upon your firm as to the scope of the reviews or the manner 
in which they will be conducted. You will be expected to conduct: 
the reviews as extensively and in such manner as appears to you to 
be. desirable in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards. With regard to the. procedural review, you will also 
have full discretion in choosing the particular bank examination(s) 
that will be the subject of your study. 
You may find it helpful to discuss the two parts of this 
engagement with the appropriate Division Directors at the. Board 
who can acquaint you in more detail with the requirements of the 
reviews and who will assist you with any specific arrangements 
that may be desirable. 
For the financial audit, contact 
Mr. John Kakalec, Controller. For the field procedural review, 
contact Mr. James Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations. 

fcCJARO Of er.VERNOFn £'.'C V'!£ /"DW-.l. FtfcfiEnVC SYSTEM 
3 1 1 1 
Tver he Rose & Co. 
November 6, 1972 
The Board's preceding auditor, Lybraud, Ross Bros, & 
Montgomery, has completed the financial review and is new in the 
process of completing the procedural review for 1972v 
You may 
wish to consult with members of that firm in preparation for this 
engagement„ 
It is understood that compensation for your services 
will be on the basis of your regular fee rates. 
However, 
estimates as to expected charges as well as actual billings 
should be. kept separate for each part of the engagement. 
Your 
firm will be asked in the near future to supply preliminary 
estimates of fees for calendar year 1973 in order to facilitate 
our budgeting for these costs. 
Please feel free to consult with members or the Board 
and its staff regarding the engagement whenever that seems 
desirable. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
cc: Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery 
Mr. Kakalec 
Mr. Mcintosh 
