Minutes for 
June 14, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Rober 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
n 

24.15 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, June 14, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Forrestal and Porter of the Legal 
Division 
Approved items. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective item numbers indicated, 
V f" -.„, 
W e r e approved unanimously after consideration of background information 
fchat had been made available to the members of the Board: 
Item No. 
1 
etter to Princeton Bank and Trust Company, 
yinceton, New Jersey, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch at U.S. Route 206 and 
• Rose-Rocky Hill Road, Princeton Township, 
^incident with the closing of a branch in 
c n e Princ eton Shopping Center. 
•! n c c 
better to Morgan Guaranty International Finance 
^Orporation, New York, New York, granting con-
to the acquisition of additional shares of 
stralian United Corporation Limited, Melbourne, 
*Ustralia. 

241.6 
6/14/67 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
3 
Banks transmitting forms for the use of State 
member banks and their affiliates in submitting 
reports as of the date of the next call for 
deports of condition. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the establishment of a new position of 
Staff Assistant to Governor Sherrill in 
the Board Members' Offices. 
Governor Robertson also approved today 
on behalf of the Board the following 
items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (copy attached as 
•^gffl No- 4) approving the appointment of Richard J. Minard as assistant 
examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (copy attached as 
•^P1 No- 5) approving the designation of Charles F. Heiner, Daniel B. 
Branham, Hance L. Griffin, John J. Ralston, and Carl S. Waters as 
sPecial assistant examiners. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta (copy attached as 
-£g£LNo. 6) approving the reappointment of David L. Billings ley as 
assistant examiner. 
Memorandum from Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board, dated June 14, 
b 7
} recommending that arrangements be made for Professor Hyman Minsky 
Washington University to spend the month of July at the Board's 
fices developing a proposal for cash-flow liquidity analysis, with 
Compensation at the rate of $75 per day plus travel expenses in accor-
nce with the Board's travel regulations. 
Memorandum from the Director of the Division of International 
^^ ance dated June 13, 1967, requesting approval of a leave of absence 
in tu° y e a r s beginning on July 30, 1967, for Helen B. Junz, Economist 
hat Division, in order that she might accept an appointment with 
for S t a t e Department for assignment to the staff of the Organization 
p r,^onomic Cooperation and Development where she would occupy the 
ltion of Economic Adviser, Economics Department. 

2 4 1 7 
-3-
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
June 13, 1967, recommending the establishment of an additional position 
of economist in the Capital Markets Section. 
Governor Robertson also approved today 
on behalf of the Board a request from 
Ida Pronio, Stenographer, Division of 
Personnel Administration, for permis-
sion to work as a clerk-typist for the 
U.S. Catholic Conference on a part-time 
basis. 
Secret 

24 i 11 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
6/14/67 
a o o A e b i ornciAL c o r r c b p o n o i n c e 
TO THE BOARD 
June 14, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Princeton Bank and'Trust Company, 
Princeton, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
Sv.f» 
T h G B ° a r d ° f G o v e ™o r s of the Federal Reserve 
a ^ n ^ ^ t Y ^ 
«£ a branch b y l inl .on 
southl V 
Company, Princeton, New Jersey, at the 
1 
C ° r n e r ° f t h e ^ s e c t i o n of U. S Route 206 
Jersev" ^
^ 
H i l 1 
Princeton Towns hip New 
year f ; o
P r ? r f ^ 
b r a n C h i S ^ l i s h e d within on! 
I t thf K S ® 
a t G ° f t h i S l G t t e r a n d Provided operations 
Center P ^ 
G X i S t i n 8 ° f f i c e a t t h e Princeton Shopping 
s i l l t a n ^ o u 1 ^ " 0 0 ^ ° ^ S h i P > N e W J e r S ^ > a r e discontinued 
imultaneously with the opening of the new office. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
°f the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
°f November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

2419 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
6/14/67 
• V,of cow 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 14, 1967. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance 
Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 12, 1967, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and 
hold 430,000 additional ordinary shares, nominal value A.$1.00 each, 
of Australian United Corporation Limited ("AUC"), Melbourne, 
Australia, at a cost of approximately US$1,831,800, provided such 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
In this connection, the Board approves the purchase and holding of 
shares of AUC in exces.s of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capital 
and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of your Corporation, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
of New York, and Morgan Guaranty International Banking Corporation, 
will not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the 
guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2420 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
6/14/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 16, 1967. 
D*ar Sir: 
The indicated number of copies of the following forms are 
eing forwarded to your Bank under separate cover for use of State 
member banks and their affiliates in submitting reports as of the next 
call date. 
Number of 
fogies 
Form FR 105 (Call No. l8h, revised June 1967), 
Report of Condition of State member banks 
including a separate Schedule B for reporting 
U.S. Government and Federal agency securities 
by issue. 
Form FR 105e (Revised June 1967), Publisher's 
copy of report of condition of State member 
banks. 
Form FR 105e-l (Revised June 1967), Publisher's 
copy of report of condition of State member 
banks. 
Form FR 105J (Supplement), Supplemental Infor-
mation on Obligations of States and Political 
Subdivisions. 
Form FR 220 (Revised September i960), Report of 
Affiliate or Holding Company Affiliate. 
Form FR 220a (Revised September 1966), Publisher's 
copy of Report of Affiliate or Holding Company 
Affiliate. 

2421 
-2-
The condition report forms to be used for this call reflect 
agreements with the other Federal bank supervisory agencies to achieve 
substantive uniformity among reports used by the agencies. Revisions 
in the State member form are relatively minor. Security repurchase and 
resale transactions are now included with Federal funds transactions in 
separate items on the face of the report. The new item, "Federal funds 
sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell' under ASSETS 
is supplemented by Memoranda items on the back of the form which will 
Provide a breakdown of these transactions between commercial banks, 
brokers and dealers in securities, and others. These transactions will 
n° longer be included in the corresponding detail items or in the total 
Schedule A. No supplementary breakdown is provided for the new 
liability item, "Federal funds purchased and securities sold under 
agreements to repurchase." 
Transactions to be included in the new items are defined in 
the present instruction booklet under individual loan items and under 
Abilities for borrowed money" as " 
all transactions involving 
Purchases (sales) of securities under resale (repurchase) agreements or 
Similar transactions. Include 
similar transactions regardless of 
erminology used, such as simultaneous purchases and sales, buybacks, 
turnarounds, overnight transactions, delayed deliveries, etc., whether 
ne transactions involve identical or similar securities or whether the 
ransactions are with the same or different institutions where the 
^rpoge of the transactions is to resell (repurchase) identical or 
similar securities." 
, 
For the June call it will be necessary to obtain from member 
J*nks supplementary information on repurchase transactions with "Others." 
is has been done in the past for all such transactions but for this 
direct contact with member banks may be limited to those reporting 
othQmOUnt i n t h e " o t h e r" category in the Memoranda section. As for 
? e r recent calls this breakdown should be based on the loan classifi-
q tion of the transaction if it had been included in Schedule A. A 
P cial tabular presentation by individual banks should be sent to the 
Qncial Statistics Section, Division of Data Processing. 
Other changes in the condition report form are clarifying 
t h Q n substQntive. On the face of the report the phrase "direct 
ob guaranteed" has been deleted from Item 2, "United States Government 
negations;" and "not guaranteed by U.S." has been deleted from Item k, 
n^ C U r l t l e3 of Federal agencies and corporations." These changes were 
Of p t o eliminate any misunderstanding concerning the classification 
U n t 
Q l AEency securities for condition report purposes. The dis-
U,s 
° n f o r Purposes of classification in condition reports between 
Government and agency securities is maintained for statistical 
purposes. Issues to be included in each item are those 

2422 
-3-
listed in the accompanying Schedule B. This change has been made in the 
publisher's copy and in condition report forms used by the other Federal 
bank supervisory agencies. It has also been cleared with representatives 
°f the National Association of Supervisors of State Banks. 
Changes have been made in the national bank report form to bring 
about substantive uniformity with the State bank form but minor differences 
exist. The national bank form includes an inset against "Other assets" 
t o show the amount of direct lease financing. No inset item for the 
amount of corporate stock holdings is shown against the "Other securities" 
item although they are included in the extended total. No inset for 
including the amount of "Mortgages and other liens on bank premises and 
other real estate" is shown against "Other liabilities" although such 
liabilities are included in the extended total. The national bank form 
c°ntinues to include the Memoranda items on time certificates of deposit 
outstanding which has been included in other recent reports. 
Amended processing instructions for the revised reports will 
G covered in a forthcoming Supplement to Technical Memorandum No. 3. 
It 
appears that the revision will not require any changes in existing card 
°rmats used for keypunching the reports. The need for preprocessing 
and editing of the national bank reports has been eliminated. Minor 
Ranges in computer summary programs will be required to reflect changes 
ln location of items in the national bank report. 
Schedule B for reporting the holdings of U.S. Government and 
Federal agencies securities by issue will be collected for the June 
v 
The Comptroller's Office will require this report from national 
nks and it again will be necessary for the Reserve Eanks to keypunch 
. 
sports. Existing procedures with respect to this report continue 
110 apply. 
A special supplement for collecting information on the maturity 
of State and local obligations held by State member banks 
bn t 
recluired. for the June call. These summary data and the individual 
JJQ reports will contribute importantly to the economic research and 
Ltary policy functions of the System and to the needs of other banking 
„ nci.eG, particularly in the areas of bank liquidity and portfolio 
Reports of the maturity distribution of these securities have 
ollected since 1956 and important changes in the nature and 
Uses of these issues have occurred in recent years. The new 
^ 
01 onese issues nave occurred in recent years, xue new 
Govrination 
will supplement similar information now available on U.S. 
ornment and Federal agency securities. 
The special supplementary schedules will be keypunched and 
at the Board. A preliminary edit of such schedules submitted 
3tate member banks should consist of verification of the item that 

2423 
-k-
toust agree with the corresponding item in reports of condition and a 
general review for reasonableness. The Board's copies of these 
supplements should be forwarded to the Financial Statistics Section, 
°ivision of Data Processing as soon as possible after this review. 
Four copies of Schedule B and of Schedule 105J should be 
urnished each State member bank to be used as a work copy, a reporting 
ank file copy, and two copies to be returned to the Reserve Bank (one 
soard copy and one Federal Reserve Bank copy). 
Very truly yours, 
/ ^ A a . 
. - a
^
M
/
^ 
Merritt Sherman* 
Secretary. 
Closures. 
TO ^ 
PRESIDENT OF EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 

24 24 
£ 
B C A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
6/14/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 14, 1967 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of June 9, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Richard J. Minard as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

25 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
O F T H E 
6/14/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E B O A R D 
June 14, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of June 8, 1967, the Board approves 
the designation of each of the following employees 
as a special assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond: 
Charles F. Heiner 
Hance L. Griffin 
Daniel B. Branham 
John J. Ralston 
Carl S. Waters 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m No 
D F T H E 
6/14/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 14, 1967 
Mr. R. M. Stephenson, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Stephenson: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of June 9, 1967, the Board approves 
the reappointment of David L. Billingsley as an 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Atlanta. Please advise if the reappointment is 
not effective June 26, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
