MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 4, 1969 

3 2 . 9 5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, November 4, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 

O/v 
11/4/69 
-2-
Foreign banking matters. The following letters were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank International 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting permission to (1) the acquisition 
of shares of Wells Fargo International 
Investment Corporation, a wholly-owned 
subsidiary to be incorporated in California, 
and (2) the continued holding of that stock 
after issuance by the subsidiary of notes 
with maturities in excess of one year. 
Letter to Bankers International Corporation, 
2 
New York, New York, amending the Board's 
letter dated March 10, 1969, with respect 
to holding by its domestic subsidiary of 
Euro-dollar bonds not expressly subordinated 
to deposits. 
Letter to Marine Midland International Corpo- 
3 
ration, New York, New York, amending the Board's 
letter dated April 23, 1968, with respect to 
holding by its domestic subsidiary of Euro-dollar 
bonds not expressly subordinated to deposits. 
In connection with Item No. 1, Governor Robertson noted the 
developing movement toward establishment of affiliated Edge corporations 
various parts of the United States. He urged that the Board give 
°onsideration 
to the formulation of policy guidelines before the 
"movement had proceeded too far on a step-by-step basis. In response the 

11/4/69 
-3-
staff indicated that the issue would come squarely before the Board, 
with appropriate staff analysis and recommendations, in connection with 
certain applications that were now in the pipeline. 
Reports on competitive factors. A draft of report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of The Twelve Mile State Bank, Twelve Mile, Indiana, into The National 
Bank of Logansport, Logansport, Indiana, contained a conclusion, as 
recommended by the Division of Supervision and Regulation, that the 
overall competitive effect of the proposal would be slightly adverse. 
However, the Banking Market Section concluded that "adverse" would be 
wore accurate. The divergent conclusions were based principally on 
differing definitions of the relevant market area. 
Since comments by members of the Board reflected a division of 
opinion^ it was understood that the staff would develop certain additional 
information and that the matter would then be brought back for further 
discussion. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities of Umpqua National 
Bank, Reedsport, Oregon, by The Oregon Bank, Portland, Oregon, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The conclusion stated that the proposed acquisition would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 

11/4/69 
-4-
Commercial paper. On October 29, 1969, the Board had announced 
that it was publishing for comment, by December 1, 1969, a proposal under 
which Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, would apply to funds received 
by member banks from the issuance of commercial paper or similar obliga-
tions by their affiliates. Included within the coverage of the proposal 
would be commercial paper issued by a member bank's parent holding 
company or by a collateral affiliate of a member bank in a holding 
company system. 
At the same time the Board had confirmed that obligations issued 
by subsidiaries of member banks were, under the present provisions of 
both Regulation Q and Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, in the 
same status as obligations issued directly by the bank. 
Questions had now been raised by Reserve Banks with respect to 
implementation of the interpretation, and requests had been received 
from affected member banks seeking relief from, or a period of time 
within which to adjust to, the pertinent requirements. 
With a memorandum dated November 4, 1969, the Office of the 
Secretary had distributed alternative proposals. The first, in the 
form of a telegram to the Federal Reserve Banks, would (1) indicate 
that all such obligations issued or renewed after October 29, 1969, 
should conform to the provisions of Regulation Q; (2) outline the 
circumstances under which it would be appropriate for a Reserve Bank to 

11/4/69 
-5-
waive penalties for member bank reserve deficiencies during an adjustment 
period; and (3) define the accommodation at the discount window that 
might be extended to affected member banks. 
The second proposal took the form of a press release stating 
that the Board had suspended until December 1, 1969, both the reserve 
requirements applicable to obligations issued by a subsidiary of a member 
bank and the Regulation Q limitations on the rate of interest on such 
obligations, in both instances to the extent that the amount of such 
obligations did not exceed the amount outstanding on October 28, 1969. 
Likewise available to the Board was a compilation prepared by 
the Research Division on the basis of information obtained through the 
Reserve Banks showing the amount of commercial paper issued by bank 
affiliates that was estimated to have been outstanding as of October 22, 
1969. For bank subsidiaries the total was considerably larger than had 
previously been suggested to the Board, with the volume concentrated in 
a relatively few banking organizations. 
Also germane to consideration of the problem was a letter dated 
September 10, 1968, (a copy of which had been forwarded to the Board 
by ^ national bank in Boston, liassachCisetts), in which the Deputy 
Comptroller of the Currency, apparently without consultation with the 
Board or its staff, had advised the member bank that the provisions of 
Regulation Q were not applicable to any indebtedness incurred by an 
operating subsidiary of a national bank. 

3390 
11/4/69 
-6-
A substantial portion of today's discussion was given over 
to a further exploration of the extent to which it could be anticipated 
that, given provisions of law and other considerations, parallel regula-
tory treatment might be accorded to subsidiaries of banks as contrasted 
to collateral affiliates of member banks in bank holding company systems. 
The discussion, although not entirely conclusive, led some members of 
the Board to indicate that it tended to reinforce their negative opinions 
with respect to the feasibility of such treatment. 
When it came to the question more immediately at hand, there 
was general agreement that in all the circumstances some measure of 
adjustment relief should be granted to the affected banking organizations. 
However, some members of the Board were inclined toward a more liberal 
approach than others. 
Eventually Governor Robertson proposed a method of drawing 
together elements of the alternative approaches that had been suggested in 
the staff memorandum,and his proposal was regarded as offering a reasonably 
acceptable compromise. 
Accordingly, the issuance of a press release in the form attached 
as Item No. 4 was approved unanimously, with the understanding that an 
appropriate notice would be published in the Federal Register. A copy 
°f the letter sent to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks pursuant 
to the Board's action is attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
fry Secretary 

KS 
m
i 
mmm*: 
•f^LRES^;.-
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
11/4/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C I R R E S P O N O E N u E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 4, 1969 
Wells Fargo Bank International Corporation, 
40 Wall Street. 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen? 
As requested in your letters of January 27 and March 11, 
1969, the Board cf Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
("WFBIC") to purchase and hold all of the shares of Wells Fargo 
international Investment Corporation ("WFIIC"), a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary to be incorporated in California, at a cost of approximately 
$6,000,000, it being understood that a portion of this may be paid 
through the transfer of shares currently held by WFBICa provided the 
shares of WFIIC are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. In. this connection, the purchase and holding of such shares 
in excess of 10 j:er cent of WFBIC's capital and surplus is also 
approved. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
°f shares of WFIIC by WFBIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That WFBIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
shares of stock of WFIIC: (i) if WFIIC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock; (ii) if WFIIC establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in any manner which at the time would not 
be permissible to WFBIC; (iii) if WFIIC receives any 
deposits in tne United States; or (iv) if WFIIC under-
takes other operaticns in the United States of the 
types described in Section 211.7 of Regulation K, ex-
cept in connection with the purchase and holding of 
stock of other corporations, and except as those 
operations represent the interim use of funds pending 
employment in equity investments. 

Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation 
-2-
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, WFBIC 
will cause WFIIC (a) to permit examiners appointed 
by the Board of Governors to examine WFIIC, and 
(b) to furnish the Board of Governors with such 
reports as it may require from tine to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by WFIIC 
be reported under Section 2il.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if WFIIC were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Ac t; and 
(4) That WFBIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of WFIIC at a net amount in excess of the book capi-
tal accounts of WFIIC, after giving effect to the 
elimination of all known losses. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New Yo,:k, with copies of Articles of. Association and By-Laws 
of WFIIC. 
The Board also grants consent for WFBIC to continue to hold 
THE stock of W j I I C after WFIIC issues up to $ 6 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0 of notes with 
maturities in excess of one year. In this regard, the Board also 
specifies that insofar as WFIIC is concerned these notes shall not 
D e consid ered as deposits under Regulations D and Q. 
The board understands that WFBIC may guarantee payment of 
the notes issued by WFIIC, thus making them direct, primary obligation 
of WFBIC payable at its office in New York, and the proceeds thereof 
used by WFBIC in the ordinary course o_ its banking business. In 
these circumstances, such notes would be "deposits" of WFBIC under 
Sections 204.1(f) of Regulation D and 217.1(f) of Regulation Q. Such 
notes wouId therefore be subject to the requirements and restrictions 
of those Regulations unless one of the exceptions specified in those 
ections were applicable or unless both the notes and the guaranty 
V e r e expressly made payable only outside the United States. 
b 
Your attention is directed to the fact that WFIIC would 
e considered as a bank for the purposes of the foreign credit re-
straint program, and foreign loans and investments made by WFIIC 
^ould be made within the combined ceiling of Wells Fargo Bank, 
ational Association, and WFBIC. However, WFIIC might make foreign 

3303 
Wells Fargo Bank 
International. Corporation 
- 3 -
loans and investments, subject to other provisions of the guidelines, 
outside the celling so long as the funds weie borrowed abroad by 
WFIIC (and not oy Wells Fargo Bank, National Association or WFBIC) 
at terms of three years or more. Any foreign assets of WFIIC in ex-
cess of foreign borrowing meeting the stated condition would be 
counted against, the combined target ceiling of Wells Fargo Bank, 
National Association, and WFBIC. 
Very truly yours, 
c . 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
' > \ "i L 1 \ 
• \ • 
'' * 
\ 
»' 
. * » « 
I'- < • . ' u . 1 •
Robert ?. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 

3304 
'•f^uTts^-* 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
11/4/69 
ADDRES3 arriCIAL COHREnPONOENCE 
TD THE fcJOARO 
November 10, 1969 
Bankers International Corporation, 
280 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10017 
Gentlemen: 
Ihe Board of Governors has recently considered the applica« 
bi.lity of Regulations D and Q to obligations issued by bank affiliates, 
including certain domestic, subsidiaries of Edge Corporations. As a 
result, the Board has concluded that its consent to the purchase and 
holding by your Corporation ("BIC") of the stock of a Corporation to 
be organized in Delaware ("DC") through the transfer of all of the 
stock held by BIC in Bankers International (Luxembourg) S.A. ("BILSA"), 
and the subsequent merger of BILSA into DC which might result in the 
assumption by DC of the liability for the debentures issued by BILSA 
in accordance with the Board's approval of May 6, 1966, should be 
amended so as to make clear that such debentures are not subject to 
the requirements of Regulations D and Q. 
Accordingly, the Board amends i t s letter of consent of 
March 10, 1969, so that condition (1) in the second paragraph reads 
as follows: 
"(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in DC: (i) if DC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock; (ii) if 
DC establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in any manner 
which at the time would not be permissible to BIC; 
or (iii) if DC receives any deposits in the 
United States." 

Bankers International Corporation «2~ 
and by adding the following paragraph: 
"The Board understands that the merger of BILSA 
into DC may result in the assumption by DC of the lia-
bility for the debentures issued by BILSA in accordance 
with the Board's approval of May 6, 1966„ In this 
regard, the Board also specifies that these debentures 
shall not be considered as deposits under Regulations D 
and Q." 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P0 Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary,, 

b O 
• B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
..^oVgo'vV-. 
nr the 
11/4/69 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
^ I 
*. 
YVASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
v'ztejc: 
Jfrty^" . 
A D D R E S S 
n F F I d A L 
C a R H E S P a H D E N C C 
vm.-NS.-WTW 
T a 
T
H
E 
B O A R D 
November 10, 1969 
Mar ine Midland International Corporation, 
250 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10017 
Gentlemenl 
The Board of Governors has recently considered the applica-
bility of Regulations D and Q to obligations issued by bank affiliates, 
including certain domestic subsidiaries of Edge Corporations. As a 
result, the Board has concluded that its consent to the purchase and 
holding by your Corporation ("MMIC") of the stock of Marine Midland 
Overseas Corporation ("MMOC"), including the retention of such stock 
after MMOC issued debentures, should be amended so as to make clear 
that such debentures are not subject to the requirements of Regula-
tions D and Q. 
Accordingly, the Board amends its letter of consent of 
April 23, 1968, so that condition (1) in the second paragraph reads 
as follows: 
"(1) That MMIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in MMOC: (i) if MMOC at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those 
. permissible to a corporation in which a corpora-
tion organized under Section 25(a) ••of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock; (ii) if 
MMOC establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in any manner 
which at the time would not be permissible to MMIC; 
or (iii) if MMOC receives any deposits in the 
United States." 

Marine Midland 
International Corporation 
and by adding the following sentence to the third paragraph: 
"In this regard, the Board also specifics that these 
debentures shall not be considered as deposits under 
Regulations D and Q." 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

-w... 
. 
Miliiill®/ / 
"7TT 
Item No. 4 
11/4/69 
For immediate release 
November 4, 1969 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
outlined measures to allow member banks whose j.ubsidiaries had commer-
cial paper outstanding on October 29, 1969, a reasonable time to adjust 
to a determination by the Board published on that date. In that deter-
mination the Board pointed out that obligation of bank subsidiaries 
under present provisions of Regulation Q find D, subject to interest 
'c limitations and reserve requirements to the same extent as obliga-
tions issued directly by the bank. Following is the text of a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Banks setting out these measures: 
"In answer to inquiries from some Reserve Banks as to 
appropriate r.tcps for implementing the Board's determination, 
announced October 29, 1969, that certain kinds of obligations 
issued by mer.ber bank subsidiaries are presently covered by 
Regulations Q and D, the Board has responded as follows: 
"1. Regulation 0. The Board has suspended until December L, 
1969, the limitations on the rate of interest that may be 
specified in commercial paper or similar obligations with a 
maturity of 30 days or more issued by a subsidiary of a member 
bank, to the extent that the total amount of such obligations 
does not exceed che total amount of the subsidiary1 a commercial 
Paper outstanding on October 29. 
Regulation D. The Board regards it as appropriate 
for a Reserve Bank to waive (a) penalties for member ban.* 
reserve deficiencies in reserve periods ending on or before 
October 29, 1969, that result from the treatment of bank sub-
sidiary obligations as deposits and (b) penalties for such 
deficiencies in reserve periods ending on or before December 3, 
1969, that result from such treatment of obligations of the 
subsidiary, to the extent that the total amount of such obliga-
tions does net exceed the total amount of the subsidiary's com-
mercial paper outstanding on October 29. 
"3. Discount window accommodation. The Board also regards 
it as appropriate tor a Reserve Bank to provide accommodation 
at the discount window for member banks affected by the October 29 
determina tion, in order to allow such banks a reasonable time 
to adj ust In an orderly manner to that determination. " 
-0-

3309 
••f^LRuS^V 
B D A R D OF 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
11/4/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R H E S P D N O t N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 5, 
1969 
v> 
Dear Sir: 
answer to inquiries from some Reserve Banks as to appropriate 
I9^qS f° r i mP l e m e n < :ing the Board's determination, announced October 29, 
° ' ^ a t certain kinds of obligations issued by member bank subsidiaries 
G presently covered by Regulations Q and D, ths Board has responded 
a s follows: 
iqr 
"I* 
Regulation Q. The Board has suspended until December 1, 
cop * tl1G limitations on the rate of interest thst may be specified in 
Jtnercial paper or similar obligations with a maturity of 30 days or 
- i s s u e d by a subsidiary of a member bank, to the extent that the 
amount of such obligations does not exceed the total amount of 
101 Subsidiary's commercial paper outstanding on October 29. 
"2. Regulation P. The Board regards it as appropriate for 
« Reserve Bank to * 
- 
reserve per 
treatment 
Penalties for such 
^cember 3, i969, t 
ry» to the 
n o t exceed the tot a 
scanding on October 
aive (a) penalties for member bank reserve deficien-
iods ending on or before October 29, 1969, that result 
of bank subsidiary obligation*: as deposits and (b) 
deficiencies in reserve periods ending on or before 
hat result from such treatment of obligations of the 
extent that the total amount of such obligations does 
1 amount of the subsidiary's commercial paper out-
29. 
"3. Discount window accommodation. The Board also regards 
dis&S aP p r oP riate for a Reserve Bank to provide accommodation at the 
ti 0 n° U n t windoif for member banks affecteu by the October 29 determina-
or(, ' 
order to allow such banks a reasonable time to adjust in an 
erly manner to that determination." 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
TO 
PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
