FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
.Tune 2. 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Si n 
'•> • 
Governor Daane 
IS V 
1 • 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1688 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 2, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
i 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr.>0'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 

l l i S ! ) 
6/2/70 
-2-
Discount rates. 
The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minne-
apolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on May 28 and by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston on June 1, 1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
First National City Overseas. 
Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New 
York, New York, granting consent to purchase shares of First National 
City Flaminia Holding di Servizi Finanziari S.p.A., Milan, Italy. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Barnett Banks. 
In a memorandum dated May 27, 1970, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the application of 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire 64.67 
per cent of the voting shares of City National Bank and Trust Company, 
Clearwater, Florida. 
Mr. Leavitt brought out that the funds to be paid for the shares 
of the Clearwater bank would be derived from part of the proceeds of an 
issue of convertible debentures that applicant had marketed in 1969. 
The staff, after considering the financial stability of the Barnett 
organization, the quality of its management, the firm's ability to ser-
vice its debt, the convertibility feature, and the fact that the acquisi-
tion portion of the debt represented only about 11 per cent of stockholders' 

6/2/70 
-3-
equity, was of the opinion that the financial arrangements presented 
no bar to approval of this particular application. 
It could be antici-
pated that other applications involving the use of acquisition debt 
would be received, and the staff would expect to evaluate them on an 
ad hoc basis, probably continuing to discourage particularly the use of 
debt financing in connection with the formation of new holding companies. 
The staff then responded to several questions by Governor Mitchell 
relating to the asset-liability structure of the holding company, manage-
ment of certain of the holding company's subsidiaries, and treatment of 
minority stockholders with respect to the transaction now proposed. 
Governor Robertson expressed strong disapproval of the fact that 
the controlling shares of the proposed subsidiary bank had already been 
acquired by three of the applicant's officers, who had obtained those 
shares with an interest-free loan from the applicant (subsequently re-
placed with an interest-bearing demand loan from a bank in New York City). 
The application was then approved unanimously, although Governors 
Robertson and Mitchell expressed reservations. 
It was understood that 
an order reflecting this decision would be drafted for the Board's con-
sideration. 
Revision of OTC margin stock list. On June 2, 1969, the Board 
adopted criteria (effective July 8) for including stocks on the over-
the-counter margin stock list made subject to margin requirements under 
Regulations G, T, and U. 
Two general criteria had been accepted regard-
ing the removal of a stock from the list: 
(1) that fluctuations in the 

I G f j l 
6/2/70 
-4-
list should be minimized as far as possible, and (2) that it should be 
made as difficult as possible for issuers and third persons to manipu-
late stocks either to permit or prevent inclusion on the list. 
Prelim-
inary delisting standards had been submitted by the staff, but final 
adoption of standards was deferred until there had been sufficient exper-
ience in working with the list. 
In a memorandum dated May 26, 1970, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation proposed delisting standards (including several not 
included among the preliminary suggestions). 
It recommended that these 
standards be adopted and that the Board instruct the staff to continue 
to apply the present random sampling techniques on a uniform basis. 
In response to a request by Governor Maisel for clarification 
the staff indicated that the effect of delisting a stock would be felt 
primarily in the event of substitution or sale of collateral. 
No credit 
could be extended on delisted stocks by brokers; therefore, if an account 
included such stocks in its collateral and there was any substitution 
or sale, part of the proceeds would have to be retained to improve mar-
gin status. 
(Banks and G-lenders, however, could extend credit on 
unlisted or delisted stocks up to the "good faith value.") 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that, since a reduction in 
market activity was basic in the proposed delisting standards, it did 
not seem equitable that someone who had used a listed OTC stock as 
collateral should be penalized because market activity in the stock had 

6/2/70 
-5-
diminished. 
If the loan value was there at the time the stock was 
pledged, it should continue to be there. 
Governor Mitchell commented that he felt uneasy about the pro-
posed standards, which he feared made manipulation possible. 
There was 
not sufficient experience to make a firm judgment, but the fact that a 
strong protest had been made by a bank in New Jersey because its stock 
was listed although that of its principal competitor was not indicated 
that the question was controversial. 
He thought there should be little 
delisting, and believed that the Federal Reserve would appear in a poor 
light if an OTC stock was subject to margin requirements one day but 
the next day was not subject to them, in the absence of strong justifi-
cation. 
Governor Daane also expressed a feeling of uneasiness and sug-
gested that the standards be published for comment rather than adopted 
immediately. 
Further discussion included comments on the delisting standards 
of the National Association of Securities Dealers as compared with those 
proposed for the Board. Miss Hart also brought out, with respect to 
the standard relating to minimum price, that it was contemplated that 
it would not apply when a price decline was attributable to the over-all 
course of stock prices. 
She inquired whether the Board would like to 
have profiles of the particular stocks that would be affected by the 
proposed standards, and several members indicated that such information 
would be helpful. 

6/2/70 
-6-
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
staff would prepare additional material in the light of today's comments 
and that the proposed standards would be held in abeyance until the 
Board had given further consideration to the matter. 
Silver coin as reserves. 
Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, 
at present permits counting as reserves "currency and coin owned and 
held by a member bank." The price of silver had risen in recent years 
to a point higher than the face value of most coins containing silver, 
and the Treasury's withdrawal from circulation of coins containing sil-
ver had enhanced the numismatic value of such coins. A number of indi-
viduals or dealers had entered into various arrangements in which sil-
ver coin was held for them by a bank, in storage, as collateral for 
loans, or under repurchase agreement, and the question was whether banks 
should be able to count such coin as part of their reserves. 
In a memorandum dated May 12, 1970, the Legal Division recom-
mended that the Board publish for comment an amendment to Regulation D 
revising the definition of the term "currency and coin" to mean"United 
States currency and coin owned and held by a member bank, including 
currency and coin in transit to or from a Federal Reserve Bank, but 
not including coin being held principally for its bullion (or numismatic) 
value." 
If the Board was not inclined to favor such an amendment, it 
was recommended that the Board inform the Federal Reserve Banks that 
coin a member bank did not have full and unrestricted right to use at 

1694 
6/2/70 
-7-
any time to meet depositors' claims could not be counted as reserves. 
Discussion indicated a preference by the Board for publishing 
a proposed amendment to Regulation D. However, suggestion was made 
that it would be well to inquire first whether the Treasury had any 
views regarding the proposal. 
Subject to such a check with the Treasury, the publication of 
the proposed amendment to Regulation D for comment was approved unani-
mously . 
Secretary's Note: 
It having been ascertained 
that the Treasury had no objection from the 
standpoint of silver policy, the proposed 
amendment was sent to the Federal Register 
for publication for comment. 
Revised form for analyzing bank capital. 
Governor Sherrill 
presented to the Board with a memorandum dated May 21, 1970, a staff 
committee's recently completed study of the Form for Analyzing Bank 
Capital. 
The committee recommended adoption of a revised form attached 
to the study, and Governor Sherrill concurred in that recommendation. 
The committee also felt that, while the proposed form was an improve-
ment over the one now in use, further study was required to define the 
capital needs of banks with greater perspective. 
Governor Sherrill 
recommended that a System committee be established to pursue these 
questions, with representatives from the Board and the Federal Reserve 
Banks and with its nucleus consisting of economists and bank supervisory 
personnel. 

1 6 f ) 5 
6/2/70 
-8-
Governor Maisel stated that, while the proposed form appeared 
to be an improvement, he was concerned over what he regarded as an 
incorrect concept. 
The form appeared to be based on the theory that 
in order to insure being conservative it was all right to be arbitrary. 
Something was added to every measure: 
if 5 per cent was accepted as 
sound, 7 per cent was specified. 
The standards inherent in this form 
would be used by banks in their decision-making processes, and the 
conservative bias would be influential. 
The treatment of municipal 
bonds in the form illustrated his point. 
The standards used would have 
a bearing on portfolio management, and he did not believe they had a 
logical basis. 
Another point that concerned him, Governor Maisel continued, 
was the apparent lack of recognition of work that had been done in the 
field of bank capital in recent years. Although there may not have 
been too many notable studies, he believed it was incumbent upon the 
System to take account of the latest thinking in order not to lag behind 
the field. 
Governor Sherrill suggested that the staff committee might meet 
with Governor Maisel with a view to modifying the form so as to meet 
the points he had made or, if agreement could not be reached, to present 
alternatives. 
One of the objectives had been to place a revised form 
in use as soon as was reasonably possible. 

6/2/70 
-9-
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the ABC form was not 
only outmoded but ineffective as a supervisory instrument. 
Criteria 
for measuring the adequacy of bank capital should be carefully worked 
out so that they could be justified in actual use. While the present 
proposal was thought-provoking, he regarded it as only a beginning. 
Perhaps a perfect answer could not be found, but he questioned the 
wisdom of putting out an interim form while further study was conducted. 
Governor Daane expressed doubt that it would be possible to 
arrive at standards that would be completely meaningful. 
In his view, 
since the present ABC form was clearly obsolete, an interim step had 
the merit of at least accomplishing improvement even though it might 
not fully achieve the objectives. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the revised form be used as 
a starting point for obtaining the views of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration, after which the question could be studied further. 
However, 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the revised form should not be 
given that much distribution until the basic questions he had raised 
had been explored internally. 
Further discussion resulted in agreement that the revised form 
would be sent at this time only to the Federal Reserve Banks for comment, 
with recognition given in transmitting it that there were reservations 
of the kinds that had been expressed by Governors Mitchell and Maisel. 

16y7 
6/2/70 
-10-
Relocatlori payments. A number of complaints had been received 
from tenants of buildings located on the site on which a new building 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston was to be constructed to the 
effect that their expenses incurred for relocation should be reimbursed. 
Discussion by the Board with the Reserve Bank Presidents on May 26 had 
brought out reasons for adopting a System policy with respect to reloca-
tion payments patterned after the provisions of the pending bill S. 1, 
under which Federal agencies would be required to make such payments 
on a uniform basis, subject to regulations to be issued. A draft of 
letter to the Federal Reserve Banks had now been distributed. 
Discussion reflected general agreement that, although the Federal 
Reserve Banks were not within the coverage of S. 1, as presently drawn, 
System practice should parallel that of the Federal Government with 
respect to relocation payments. 
Comments were made on the scope of S. 1 
and its implications, and it was agreed that the Boston Bank was proceed-
ing appropriately in offering at this time to pay moving expenses of 
tenants, with further payments to await the enactment of S. 1. 
A number of revisions of the draft letter were suggested, and 
at the conclusion of the discussion unanimous approval was given to the 
sending of a letter in final form worked out by Governor Mitchell and 
Mr. Cardon. 
A copy of the letter subsequently transmitted is attached as 
ItemNo. 2. 

K i f j S 
6/2/70 
-11-
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Partee, 
Molony, and Hexter withdrew at this point. 
Interagency planning. 
Following up on a previous discussion 
by the Board, Mr. Holland reported on certain interagency planning work 
in which members of the Board's staff were participating. 
Of the work 
being done in several areas, including that of a contingency nature, he 
specified interagency discussion of the possibility of providing assis-
tance to a railroad for working capital purposes, probably through a 
V-loan arrangement, and discussion of proposed draft legislation under 
which a corporation would be established under supervision of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission to indemnify customers of brokerage 
houses. 
Governor Maisel then reported on a meeting he had attended of 
a Subcommittee of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Policy, the purpose 
of which was to examine possible use of certain authorities vested in 
the President by the Credit Control Act of 1969. While no affirmative 
judgments were reached, several matters were referred to the Council of 
Economic Advisers for study, and it appeared that the Board's staff 
might be called upon for some assistance in that regard. 
Rate of compensation. 
Upon recommendation of Governor Sherrill, 
the Board approved, effective immediately, an increase in the rate of 
compensation per day for William E. Simkin, Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve System Labor Relations Panel, from $110 to $135. 

6/2/70 
-12-
Institutional Investor Study. Governor Sherrill referred to 
receipt from the Securities and Exchange Commission of a request for 
additional use of the Board's computer for purposes of the Institutional 
Investor Study being conducted by the Commission. 
In view of the cir-
cumstances recited, Governor Sherrill recommended that the Commission 
be provided use of the computer, on the present basis, for an additional 
six weeks. 
His recommendation was approved, and it was understood that 
he would advise Commissioner Smith accordingly. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

BOARD O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
1700 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
6/2/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P D N D E N Q E 
r n 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 2, 1970. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corpor a t i o n. 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 1002.2 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 24, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold approximately 100,000 shares (50 per cent) of First 
National City Flaminia Holding di Servizi Finanziari S.p.A. ("FNCF"), 
Milan, Italy, at a cost of approximately $1,968,000, provided such 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of FNCF if FNCF at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if FNCF establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Italy, or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of FNCF as it may require from time to time; 

1701 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FNCF 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if FNCF were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of FNCF at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of FNCF, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter, with the 
understanding that FNCOIC will advise the Board of any change in 
the control of FNCF. 
The Board has noted that as of April 30, 1970, the com-
bined foreign loans and investments of First National City Bank and 
its subsidiaries exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. 
The foregoing con-
sent is given with the understanding that those foreign loans and 
investments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent 
With the guidelines; that the investment now being approved will be 
made within those guidelines; and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1 * 7 0 2 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N . 
D. 
C. 
20551 
• F T H E 
S-2136 
Item No. 2 
6/2/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
O D A R D 
June 3, 1970 
Dear Sir: 
A question has arisen at a Federal Reserve Bank whether, 
incident f.o a building program currently in progress, the Reserve 
Canlc should undertake to make relocation payments to occupants of 
real property acquired by the Reserve Bank in connection with its 
building project. 
At a recent meeting of the Board and reserve Bank Presidents, 
this question was discussed in the light of existing and proposed 
Reserve Bank building programs in general, and in the light of 
Congressional policy regarding relocation payments as expressed in 
existing statutes and in S. 1, as recently passed by the Senate. 
1 would establish a uniform policy for fair and equitable treat-
ment of persons displaced by acquisition of real property for public 
purposes. 
The Board has concluded that, although the Federal Reserve 
Banks v;ould not be subject to S. 1, they should make relocation pay-
ments as provided in S. 1. 
S. 1 authorizes the President to make such rules and regu-
lations as he may determine to be necessary to assure relocation 
payments that arc fair arid reasonable and as uniform as practicable. 
Although these regulations will not be available until some time 
after S. 1 Is finally enacted, the Board notes with approval plans 
announced by the Reserve Bank involved to move ahead with reimburse-
ment of moving expenses now, with reimbursement for other relocation 
expenses that may be provided for under S. 1 to be paid retroactively 
after its enactment. 
Very truly yours 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 
TO Tim PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
