MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Presidents of Federal Reserve Banks 
November 17, 1970 

3 1 fjB 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks was held in 
the Board Room of the Federal Reserve Building at 3:00 p.m. on 
Tuesday, November 17, 1970. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Messrs. Morris, Hayes, Eastburn, Hickman, 
Heflin, Mayo, Francis, Galusha, Clay, 
Coldwell, and Swan, Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New 
York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas 
City, Dallas, and San Francisco, 
respectively 
Mr. Fossum, First Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Voluntary Guide to Conduct. A special committee appointed by 
Chairman Burns and consisting of Governor Robertson (Chairman), 
I.';,? 
il 
r. 
f.< • 
. 
\ , 
. 
• :.; 
• 
.
• 
Governor Daane, President Hayes, and President Heflin had prepared a 
proposed Voluntary Guide to Conduct for Senior Officials of the Federal 
V'.tcc
 
:
 J-. >;••'" 
.i 
J.-.
 5
 / 
•. .' 
oi 
Reserve System under date of June 2, 1970. 
(For this purpose the 
term "senior officials" was defined to include members of the Board of 
Governors and Presidents and First Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks.) 

a t 
8 7 
11/17/70 
-2-
Copies of the draft document had been made available to all 
of the participants in this meeting along with copies of a memorandum 
filed by Governor Daane under date of June 3, 1970, in which he 
suggested elaboration of the intent and objectives of certain para-
graphs in the document dealing generally with public expressions by 
senior System officials. 
After introductory comments in which Chairman Burns and Governor 
Robertson emphasized the general characteristics of the proposed guide 
to conduct, the fact that it had intentionally been cast in broad terms, 
and the fact that it was designed in large measure to provide a reminder 
and to stimulate thinking in certain areas, further discussion of the 
draft was invited. 
Ensuing comments indicated that the document, as drafted, was 
generally acceptable. 
There were, however, a number of questions, 
some principally for the purpose of clarification, with respect to 
statements contained in several of the paragraphs. 
A substantial part of the discussion centered around the state-
ment in the third paragraph of the draft that each President and First 
Vice President should file annually with the Chairman of his Board of 
Directors (1) a statement similar to that filed by members of the Board 
of Governors with the Chairman of the U.S. Civil Service Commission, 
naming all corporations and other business organizations in which he 

3 1 8 8 
11/17/70 
-3-
or his immediate family (wife and minor children) had any financial 
interest through ownership of stocks, bonds, or otherwise, and the 
nature (but not the amount) of such financial interest, and (2) a 
statement of all transactions in securities (with dates, but not 
amounts) during the preceding year. This was followed in the draft 
document by an indication that such statements should be made available 
on request to the Chairman of the Board of Governors. 
Chairman Burns now proposed that the language be changed to say 
that such statements should be submitted to the Chairman of the Board 
of Governors (in addition to the Chairman of the Board of Directors), 
which would mean that they would be submitted on a routine basis rather 
than on special request, thus following the procedure under which 
similar statements were filed periodically by the members of the Board 
of Governors with the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission. 
Chairman 
Burns advised the Presidents that he would contemplate that such state-
ments, when received, would simply be placed in a confidential file, 
to be reviewed by him (the Chairman) only if some question should arise 
that would make such a review seem advisable. 
After this clarification as to the manner in which it was 
contemplated that the confidentiality of the statements would be preserved, 
the Presidents indicated that they would have no difficulty with inclu-
sion in the Voluntary Guide to Conduct of the language suggested by 

3 1 8 9 
11/17/70 
-4-
Chairman Burns with regard to submission of the statements on a regular 
basis. 
As to the content of such statements, there were a number of 
inquiries with regard to the appropriate interpretation of language in 
the draft document to the effect that the reports submitted by Presidents 
and First Vice Presidents should include information on corporations and 
other organizations in which the party submitting the statement "or his 
immediate family" had any financial interest. The questions related 
principally to situations such as those where funds or investments of 
a wife were maintained separately from those of her husband or where 
funds had been placed in trust. 
The general nature of the counsel given by Chairman Burns was 
that in such cases the senior official submitting the statement should 
consider the particular circumstances carefully and then prepare his 
statement in a manner reflecting his best judgment, having in mind 
among other things the requirement prescribed in the form required to 
be filed by Board members with the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission. 
In the process, the senior official might be led to reevaluate practices 
theretofore followed in managing his affairs, and that would serve the 
purpose of guarding against any practices that could conceivably result 
in possible embarrassment. 
Further discussion resulted in a decision to revise the language 
of the sentence in question somewhat so that the reference to the 

3190 
11/17/70 
-5-
financial interests, if any, of a spouse, minor child, or other members 
of the immediate household (of the President or First Vice President) 
would not pertain also to the statement of transactions in securities 
during the preceding year. The result was to conform more closely to 
the wording of the form prescribed by the Civil Service Commission, 
which did not require a statement of transactions in securities. 
One President, while agreeing with the admonition in the draft 
document that in no event should a senior System official purchase any 
marketable Government securities or stock of any bank, any affiliate 
thereof, or a Government securities dealer, raised the question whether 
it was considered necessary to indicate that the statements to be filed 
annually by Presidents and First Vice Presidents should include informa-
tion on financial interests in all corporations and other organizations, 
it being his thought that the Civil Service Commission form was very 
broadly stated because it was required to be filed by officials serving 
in a wide variety of positions throughout the Government. 
Comments made on that point included, among other things, reference 
to the influence of System policies on the value of shares of many 
corporations and other businesses, including not only those operating 
specifically in the financial sector. 
It was concluded that all in all 
the best course, from the standpoint of self-protection and otherwise, 
would be to follow the language of the Civil Service form. 

3191 
11/17/70 
-6-
In a somewhat similar vein, one President expressed concern 
about potential problems if Reserve Bank officers and employees other 
than senior System officials, as here defined, were to acquire financial 
interests in companies such as equipment manufacturers with which a 
Reserve Bank might be doing business. 
In this regard, Governor Robertson 
referred to the Rules Regarding Employee Responsibilities and Conduct 
that were applicable to key employees of the Board of Governors and to 
the understanding of the special committee that the Reserve Banks had 
adopted similar rules for their own personnel. He also pointed out 
that from time to time the Board of Governors had addressed letters to 
the Reserve Banks with respect to matters such as receipt of gifts by 
officers and employees, speculation in securities, and acceptance of 
honorariums. 
In view of the concern expressed by the President who had raised 
the issue, it was suggested that each of the Reserve Banks might want 
to review its outstanding rules pertaining to employee responsibilities 
and conduct, and perhaps exchange information with other Banks. 
In the fourth paragraph of the document drafted by the special 
committee it was stated that senior officials should not accept gifts, 
entertainment, or other favors from any person or concern affected by 
System operations or policies that might be regarded as likely to 
influence their objectivity in reaching decisions with respect to such 

11/17/70 
-7-
operations or policies, and there was general agreement with a suggestion 
that the word "honorariums" should be added. 
During the discussion of that point Chairman Burns expressed 
his understanding that the language of the fourth paragraph could be 
interpreted as not precluding acceptance of a gift of nominal financial 
value where the refusal thereof would simply create embarrassment. 
Similarly, a senior System official would not be expected to refrain 
from accepting an invitation to a dinner or reception of a bankers 
association, in contrast to an invitation that would involve entertain-
ment over a weekend at the expense of such an organization. 
Such an interpretation appeared to be generally accepted, 
although one President noted that in certain circumstances acceptance of 
a gift of even modest financial value obviously should be avoided. 
Governor Daane, at the invitation of the Chairman, reviewed 
reasons, as stated in his June 3 memorandum, why it had occurred to him 
that there might be advantages in amplifying somewhat the intent and 
objectives implicit in the guidance given in the final three paragraphs 
of the document drafted by the special committee. 
(He had suggested in 
the memorandum that such amplification might be contained in a report 
that would accompany the Voluntary Guide to Conduct or that there could 
be an annotation.) 
It was the consensus that even though one might not take exception 
to the points included in an amplification such as Governor Daane had 

3 1 » 3 
11/17/70 
-8-
suggested, the language of the document prepared by the special committee 
provided sufficient basic guidance in the areas involved and spelled 
out the nature of the problems satisfactorily. 
Governor Daane's comments did, however, lead to an exchange of 
remarks in which one President inquired whether it was the intent, as 
Governor Daane's elaboration of the language of the eighth paragraph of 
the draft document seemed to him to suggest, that a senior System 
official should refrain from expressing publicly his reservations about 
matters such as Government policies. 
He observed that a System official 
could make clear that he was expressing his personal views. 
In commenting on that point, Chairman Burns said it was not the 
intent to take away the privilege of speaking out, but rather to stress 
that senior System officials should be very careful about making public 
pronouncements, including pronouncements that might be regarded as 
critical of others in the Federal Reserve or of actions taken by the 
Federal Government generally. What was wanted, he brought out, was a 
sensitivity to the effects of such remarks, including possible implications 
for the Federal Reserve System. 
In that connection, he noted that a 
senior System official who spoke out on policy matters was almost certain 
to be regarded by the public generally as a spokesman for the System no 
matter how careful he might be to specify that he was expressing only 
personal views. 

11/17/70 
-9-
The foregoing comments led in turn to a question with regard to 
the statement in the eighth paragraph of the draft document that although 
senior System officials should feel free to express their personal views 
on questions of System or public interest "they should carefully consider 
whether their remarks might create public misunderstanding of the System's 
actions, or impair the effectiveness of System policies, or lessen the 
prestige of the System." 
A suggestion was made that "effectiveness" be 
changed to "effective formulation," with some participants in the meeting 
expressing the opinion that a distinction might be appropriate between 
assessments of System policies and remarks anticipating policies that 
might be established by the System. 
At the conclusion of the discussion of this point, it was agreed 
to change "effectiveness" to "effective formulation and implementation." 
It was then understood that the Voluntary Guide to Conduct for 
Senior Officials of the Federal Reserve System, amended to incorporate 
the changes agreed upon today, was accepted, and that copies of the 
document in final form would be distributed to all senior System officials 
(as that term had been defined for this purpose). 
It was also understood 
that the statements of financial interests to be submitted by each 
President and First Vice President would be prepared as of the end of each 
calendar year. 
(Note: Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of the Voluntary Guide 
to Conduct in the form in which it was finalized under date of 

31fj5 
11/17/70 
-10-
November 18, 1970, and distributed to the parties concerned, including 
the Chairmen of the respective Federal Reserve Banks, under date of 
December 2, 1970. Copies of the letters sent to the Chairmen and to 
the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks are also attached, as 
Items 2 and 3, respectively.) 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary of the Board, joined the 
meeting at this point. 
Membership in banker organizations. 
Reference was made to a 
memorandum prepared by the Board's staff under date of November 6, 1970, 
in which it was recommended, in view of the fact that membership in the 
American Bankers Association tended to expose the Federal Reserve System 
to charges of possible conflict of interest, participation in political 
activity, and improper expenditure of public funds, that the Federal 
Reserve Banks consider discontinuing their "membership" status in favor 
of the status of "subscribers to services" if the essential advantages 
of the current relationship could be maintained in that manner. 
It was noted in the memorandum that the matter was currently 
under study by the Presidents' Conference Committee on Bank Coordination 
and Special Topics (of which President Kimbrel was Chairman) along with 
the longer-run issues involved in membership of Federal Reserve Banks in 
it * 
-,, , 
... 
State bankers associations. 
As stated in the memorandum, the Board's staff had concluded 
that more technically-oriented organizations such as the American Institute 

"I
 
% 
^ 
| JpV r 
11/17/70 
-11-
of Banking, the Bank Administration Institute, and Robert Morris 
As sociates were sufficiently different in purpose so that there was no 
need to consider withdrawal from membership status in those groups. 
In the memorandum it was reported that the leadership of the 
American Bankers Association was amenable to the recommended change in 
status and that President Kimbrel had expressed himself as believing 
the Reserve Bank Presidents also would be receptive. 
It was understood 
that educational services, publications services, and other similar 
services could continue to be received by the Federal Reserve System 
under an alternative arrangement whereby the Federal Reserve would pay 
its share of the cost of such benefits. 
Chairman Burns introduced the discussion at this meeting by 
referring to criticism that had been received from a Congressional source, 
and also from other sources, with regard to Federal Reserve membership 
status in the various bankers associations, particularly the American 
Bankers Association. 
From conversations with a number of bankers, 
including the members of the Federal Advisory Council, he sensed a nearly 
unanimous feeling that it would be desirable to terminate the present 
relationship. As to the services and benefits obtained by Federal Reserve 
Banks as the result of their holding membership status, he understood, 
like the staff, that such services and benefits could continue to be 
received if the Reserve Banks withdrew from membership and instead paid 
for the services and benefits specifically. 

11/17/70 
-12-
A President observed that the Reserve Bank memberships were 
of a special nature, it being understood that the Banks were in a 
unique category and were not bound by declarations of policy of the 
banker associations involved. 
He agreed that the distinction might 
not be readily understood by persons outside the Federal Reserve System. 
However, the main work of the banker associations was to improve the 
banking system, develop a stronger banking structure, and develop more 
efficient banking practices. 
Neverthel ess, it was the consensus that the greater advantage 
lay in the direction of withdrawing from membership in the American 
Bankers Association, particularly if, as the leadership of the Association 
had indicated to Chairman Burns and President Kimbrel, the Reserve Banks 
could continue to receive certain services and benefits that accrued to 
them under the present relationship and if arrangements also could be 
made for the Federal Reserve to continue to participate in research 
projects and other studies where such cooperation would be mutually 
beneficial. 
It was further the consensus that abandonment of membership 
status in the American Bankers Association should be accomplished promptly, 
although it was not indicated that Federal Reserve Banks should endeavor 
t o
 obtain repayment of membership dues already paid by them for the 
Association's current fiscal year. 

3 1 3 8 
11/17/70 
-13-
As to membership in State bankers associations, it was noted 
that the problem was somewhat more complex because of differences in 
the range of services available through the respective associations and 
because it was understood that the associations might have difficulty 
in costing the various services. Nevertheless, there was agreement in 
principle that the Federal Reserve Banks should withdraw from membership 
in such associations, even in those cases where the membership might be 
described as honorary and require no payment of dues, subject to the 
understanding that negotiations with the respective associations might 
have to be carried out over a period of time. 
It was indicated that the 
committee headed by President Kimbrel would continue to try to work out 
a general framework under which Federal Reserve Banks would pay for 
identifiable services. 
In this connection, Chairman Burns emphasized 
that withdrawal from membership in a bankers association must involve 
more then merely a bookkeeping procedure, that is, a procedure under which 
membership status would in reality continue under different terminology. 
(Note: 
Attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of a letter sent to the 
Federal Reserve Banks under date of December 8, 1970, reflecting the 
decisions reached at this meeting and expressing the Board's desire to be 
kept advised of developments.) 
Reserve Bank directors. President Eastburn remarked that directors 
°f the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia had expressed some concern 

3 1 9 9 
11/17/70 
-14-
about conflict-of-interest problems that conceivably could arise in 
the case of Reserve Bank directors, and he inquired whether any thought 
was being given to the providing of guidance on that score beyond what 
^ a l r e a d y existed in outstanding Board letters and otherwise. 
Governor Robertson indicated that the question was under study 
within the Board's organization, but he encouraged further consideration 
of the matter also by the Reserve Bank directors themselves. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3200 
November 18, 19 70 
Item No. 1 
VOLUNTARY GUIDE TO CONDUCT FOR SENIOR 11/17/70 
OFFICIALS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1. Members of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
• '"v . J C M'' 
C 
.
1
 
>.i 
- 
' 
. 
Reserve System ana Presidents and First Vice Presidents of 
the Federal Reserve Banks have a special responsibility for 
maintaining the integrity, dignity, and reputation of the 
System. Accordingly, they should scrupulously avoid conduct 
* that might in any way tend to embarrass the System or impair 
• ~c i 
i 
the effectiveness of its operations. 
2. They should carefully adhere to the spirit, as 
• 
' 
well as the letter, of the rules of ethical conduct pre-
»d
 
s
' • 
scribed for employees of the Hoard of Governors or the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks and should exemplify in their own conduct 
the high standards set forth in those rules. 
3. Tneir personal financial dealings should be above 
reproach, and information obtained by them as officials of 
the System should never be used for personal gain. They 
should be careful to avoid any dealings or other conduct 
that might convey even an appearance of conflict between 
their personal interests, the interests of the System, and 
public interest. In no event should they purchase any 

3201 
/ 
- 2 -
marketable government securities or stock of any bank, any 
affiliate thereof, or a government securities dealer, or ob-
tain a bank loan on terms more favorable than those applied 
to other borrowers. Each President ana First Vice President 
should file annually with the chairman of the board of di-
rectors of his Federal Reserve Bank (I) a statement similar 
to that filed by members of the Board of Governors with the 
Chairman of the Civil Service Commission, naming all corpora-
tions and other organizations in which he* has any financial 
interest through ownership of stock, bonds, or otherwise, and 
the nature (but not the amount) of such financial interests, 
and (2) a statement of all transactions in securities (with 
dates, but not amounts) during the preceding year. 
Such 
statements should be submitted to the Chairman of the Board 
°f Governors. 
4. They should not accept honorariums, gifts, enter-
tainment, or other favors from any person or concern affected 
b
y System operations or policies that might be regarded as 
likely to influence their objectivity in reaching decisions 
^ith respect to such operations or policies. 
*The interest, if any, of a spouse, minor child, or other 
member of his immediate household should be reported in 
this statement as his interest. 

3202 
/ 
- 3 -
5. They should strictly preserve the confidentiality 
of System information that, if revealed, could inure to the 
private benefit of any person or impair the effectiveness of 
System operations and policies. 
6. In considering invitations to speak at meetings 
sponsored by profit-making organizations, such officials 
should carefully weigh the public benefits likely to be de-
rived from addressing such meetings against the possibility 
that their participation might afford such organization a 
prestige advantage over competitors. 
7.. In public speeches and relations with news media, 
senior officials should be particularly mindful of the con-
sideration stated in paragraph 5 and, in addition, should 
a
void statements that might suggest the nature of any mone-
ta
i-y policy action that has not yet been officially disclosed 
0 r
 that might confuse or mislead the public with respect to 
t
ne monetary or other policies of the System. 
8. They should feel free to express their personal 
v
iews as to questions of System or public interest, but they 
should carefully consider whether their remarks might create 
Public misunderstanding of the System's actions, or impair 

3203 
j 
- 4 -
the effective formulation ana implementation of System 
policies, or lessen the prestige of the System. 
9. When speeches or other statements have been 
prepared for public release, they should consider whether 
it is feasible and useful to distribute copies to other 
senior officials for their information in advance of pub-
lic release. 

3 2 0 4 
CONFIDENTIAL STATEMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND FINANCIAL INTERESTS 
For Use by Presidential 
Appointees 
Designated 
in 
Section 
4QI of Executive 
Order 
I1222, 
dated May 8, 
1965, Prescribine 
Standards 
of Ethical 
Conduct 
for 
Go vemment 
Officers 
and 
Employees. 
"NO MUST FILE. 
(1) T h e head of each executive department, independent agency, or Government corpor-
ation, (2) each Presidential appointee in the Executive O f f i c e of the President who is not subordi-
nate to the head of an agency.in that O f f i c e , and (3) each full-time member of a committee, board, or 
commission appointed by the President. 
NCN TO FILE. 
Initial statements shall.be submitted not later than August 6, 
1965. 
New appointees 
shall submit the required statement not later than 30 days after entrance on duty. 
Any changes in, or additions to, the information contained in the initial statement shall be reported 
in a supplementary statement at the end of the quarter in which such changes occur. 
Quarters end 
°n March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. 
If there are no changes or additions in any 
-Quarter a negative report is not required. 
However, for the purpose of annual review, a 
supple-
mentary 
statement, 
negative 
or othcrvise, 
is required 
as of June 30 each 
year. 
^NERE TO FILE. 
Mail under Personal 
and Confidential 
cover to Chairman, U. S. Civil Service Commis-
sion, Washington, D. C. 
20415. 
^ORM o p 
S T A T E M E N T . 
List the required information in the format shown on the back of this sheet. 
burnish by lotto, or menvarar.dum using the Part headings and columnar arrangement shown, or fill in 
the printed format if space is adequate. 
^ N E R A L 
R E T I R E M E N T S . 
The information to be furnished in this statement is required by Executive 
Order 11222 and shall be held in confidence. 
The Order does not require the submission of any-iaformation relating to any person's connection 
with, or interest in, any professional society or any charitable, religious, social, fraternal, recrea-
tional, public service, c i v i c , or political organization or any similar organization not conducted 
as a business enterprise and which is not engaged in the ownership or conduct of a business enter-
Prise. 
Educational and other institutions doing research and development or related work involving 
grants of money from the United States are deemed to be " b u s i n e s s e n t e r p r i s e s " for purposes of 
this report-and should be included. 
The information to be listed does not require a showing of the amount of financial interest, indebted-
n e s s , or the value of real property. 
In the event any of the required information, including holdings placed in trust, is not known to you 
"Ut is known to another person, you should request that other person to submit the information on 
your behalf and should report such request in Part IV of your statement. 
% 
The interest, if any, of a spouse, minor child, or other member of your immediate household shall be 
reported in this statement as your interest. 
If that information is to be supplied by others, it should 
be so indicated in Part IV. 
"Member of your immediate h o u s e h o l d " includes only those blood or in-
law relations who are residents of your household. 
CHAIRMAN, U. S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION 

^ 
CONFIDENTIAL STATEMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND FINANCIAL 
, N T E R E S T ^ 2 0 5 
AP
P0:N"EE 
3 
D A 1 T O F 
4 H P O I N 1 M L N T 
OP p. ! S I T ' O N 
4 
D E P A R T M E N T 
O R 
A G E N C Y 
E ^ P L O Y M E N T AND F I N A N C I A L I N T E R E S T S . 
List 
^'orpfjg 
0 t 
corporations, companies, firrr.s, or other business 
or otheS' . p a r t n e r R h i p s , nonprofit organizations, and education-
^Plovu t T i n s ' i t u t i o n s : 
(a'i with which you are connected as an 
V'Ser. or ' ° ^ c e r > owner, director, member, trustee, partner, ad-
COr»suhant, or (b) in which you have any continuing finan-
cial interests, through a pension or retirement plan, shared in-
come, or other arrangement as a result of anv currcnt or prior 
employment or business or professional association; or (c) in 
which you have any financial interest through the ownership of 
stock, stock options, bonds, securities, or other arrangements 
including trusts. 
A D D R E S S 
P O S I T I O N 
IN 
O R G A N I Z A T I O N . 
(USE 
P A R T I 
(J) DCSI&NAT I ONS. 
IF A P P L I C A B L E . ) 
N A T U R E 
O F 
F I N A N C I A L 
' 
I N T E R E S T 
, S T O C K 
P R I O F C 
] B U S I N E S S 
I N C O M E 
K'SC Pttt- I <!>L 
(C) OESIGNATIONS. IF iPPI I f i J L t . l 
|| 
^ 
Uiojp ( " ^ D I T O R S . 
L i s t 
t h e 
n a m e s 
o f your creditors other 
PrcPert..l° WVl0rri Vou r.iay be indebted by reason of a mortgage 
vvl'ich you occupy as a personal residence or to whom 
you may be indebted for current and ordinary household 
rtiu! liv-
ing expenses such as household furnishings, automolnlv, i-Juca-
tion, vacation, and similar expenses. 
N A M E 
A N D 
A D D R E S S 
O F 
C R E D I T O R 
C H A R A C T E R 
O F 
I N D E E T E O N T S S . 
P E R S O N A I 
L O A N 
N O T E . 
S E C U R I T Y 
r j ^ 
i N T E R E S T S 
IN R E A L 
P R O P E R T Y . 
List your interest in real property or rights in lands, other than property which you 
e Personal residence. 
O F 
I N T E R E S T 
s.g. 
M O R T G A G E , 
L I E N . 
V E ' T M E N T 
T R U S T 
T Y P E 
O F 
P R O P E R T Y , 
e . g . , 
R E S I D E N C E . 
M O T E L . 
A P A R T M E N T . 
F A R M , 
U N D E V E L O P E D 
L A N D 
A D D R E S S . 
U F P U H A L , 
G L / E 
BFO, 
OR COUNTY 
AND 
S T * R E . I 
±: 
— 
5,r'y ir.f F O R M A T I O N R E Q U E S T E D OF O T H E R PERSONS. 
° 
'-'at>on ip to be supplied by other persons, e.g., 
r n eV. accountant, relative, please indicate the name 
such persons, the date upon which you requested 
that the information he supplied, and the nature of subject matter 
involved. .Extra for.-.3 are enclosed for use by such persons. 
Additional copies may be obtained from the O f f i c e of the Chair-
man, United States Civil Service Commission. 
I
^
H
C
U
L 
S T A T U T O R Y R E S T R I C T I O N S . 
Give the 
."ny Statute or other authority applicable to the spe-
U1 uuict dUUIVUL} app. iw 
v, . ~ 
— r 
you hold that prohibits outside holdings cr business 
N A M E 
A N D 
A D D R E S S 
D A T E 
O F 
R E Q U E S T 
N A T U R E 
O F 
S U E J E C T 
M A T T E R 
interests of any type, e.g., sec. 4(a) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended, 48 Stat. 885,IS U.S.C. 78d,and sec 
11 or 
the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, 24 Stat. 383, 49 U.S.C. 11. 
C I T A TL O N 
O F 
O R 
O T H E R 
A U T H O R I T Y 
' r'*tllfy 
that the statements J have made are true, complete, and correct to the h-st of my knou-lalR* und hrlirf. 
(SIJMAT'JBC) 

of Cow' 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
11/17/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 2, 1970 
Enclosed for your information is a copy of a Voluntary 
Guide to Conduct for Senior Officials of the Federal Reserve System 
dated November 18, 1970. The term "Senior Officials" is defined for 
this purpose to include the members of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System and the Presidents and First Vice Presidents 
°f the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The statement was drafted by a committee, appointed by the 
Chairman of the Board of Governors, that consisted of two members of 
the Board and two Presidents. Minor changes were agreed upon at a 
joint meeting of the Board and the Presidents on Tuesday, November 17, 
a
nd those changes are reflected in the enclosed document. 
You will note that among other things the document calls 
for a statement of financial interests and transactions in securities 
to be filed annually by each President and First Vice President with 
the Chairman of the Board of Directors of his Bank, and that a copy 
of each such statement is to be submitted to the Chairman of the 
Board of Governors. It is suggested that these statements be filed 
a s
 of the end of each calendar year. 
Enclosed is a copy of the letter that has been sent to the 
President of your Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 
T o
 CHAIRMEN OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

oscc^. 
3207 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
11/17/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 2, 1970 
In accordance with the understanding at the joint meeting 
the Board and Presidents on Tuesday, November 17, there is enclosed 
a copy of the Voluntary Guide to Conduct for Senior Officials of the 
Federal Reserve System, in form reflecting changes from the draft 
statement that were agreed upon at the joint meeting. 
Specifically, 
the following changes have been made: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
The words "A PROPOSED" were deleted from the heading. 
In paragraph "3", a footnote was added to include a 
reference to interests of a spouse, minor child, or 
other member of an individual's immediate household. 
The last sentence of paragraph "3" was revised to 
strike the words "made available on request", and 
the word "submitted" was substituted therefor. 
The word "honorariums" was inserted in paragraph "4". 
In paragraph "8", the word "effectiveness" was 
eliminated, and the words "effective formulation 
and implementation" were substituted therefor. 
Unless there are additional suggestions from the parties 
concerned, it will be understood that the enclosed document dated 
November 18, 1970, will stand in effect. 
We shall appreciate your bringing the document to the 
a t
tention of the First Vice President of'your Bank; a copy is en-
closed for his use. 
A copy of the statement is also being sent to the Chairman 
o f
 your Bank for his information, and a copy of the transmittal letter 
is enclosed. 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 
T o
 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3208 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 5 Y S T E M 
s-2152
 
1 1 / 1 7 / 7 0 
• 
. 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
10131 
IJt.M.vU; 
AOOREDB OrriCIAL C O R n C 8 »» O N O C N C E 
.* 
TO THE BOARD 
December 8, 19 70 
At the joint meeting of the Board and Reserve Bank Presidents 
^ I d on November 17 it was agreed that the membership status of Federal 
Reserve Banks in the American Bankers Association should be terminated 
Promptly and that membership in the various State bankers associations 
s
h°uld be terminated in due course. Hereafter, Reserve Banks should 
Purchase from those organizations only such services as may be bene-
f i
cial to the Federal Reserve System and which can be clearly identified, 
.
 
S u
ch as receipt of publications, attendance at meetings and conferences, 
Participation in research projects, other studies, etc. 
It was not 
in
te.nded, however, that the Reserve Banks endeavor to obtain any repay-
"tent of dues already paid by them for the current fiscal year. 
The ABA leadership has already agreed informally in principle 
• 
membership in their organization can be terminated promptly. 
It is 
U n d
erstood that negotiations with the various State associations may 
,
 e e d
 to be conducted over a somewhat longer period of time. 
The Board is interested and would appreciate being kept advised 
Progress toward these ends. • 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENT 
OF EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 
