FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
August 3, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1939 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 3, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Adminis-
trative Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Slocum, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mr. Meetze, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and St. Louis on July 22, by 

1940 
8/3/71 
-2-
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on July 26, and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San 
Francisco on July 29, 1971, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Atlantic 
Bancorporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Gainesville 
Atlantic Bank, Gainesville, Florida, a proposed new bank, and authorized 
the issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 1) reflecting this 
decision. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of United 
Midwest Equity, Inc., Detroit, Michigan, to become a bank holding com-
pany through the acquisition of shares of Liberty State Bank and Trust, 
Hamtramck, Michigan, and authorized the issuance of an order (copy 
attached as Item No. 2) reflecting this decision. 
" 
' ' • *m Oi^-, 
M* 
f C r,; • r. i oapkc 0 ., i.b-; I. . <> : : 
Report on competitive factors. On July 29, 1971, the Board 
considered a report to the Comptroller of the Currency that would cite 
as adverse the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
Citizens National Bank of Morris County, Succussuna, New Jersey, into 
The Warren County National Bank, Washington, New Jersey. Governor 
Maisel had raised the question, in light of the Board's decision to 
deny a New Jersey holding company acquisition involving somewhat similar 

1941 
8/3/71 
-3-
considerations, whether the effect on competition should not be cited 
as substantially adverse. Staff now indicated that Governor Maisel's 
question had been resolved to his satisfaction. 
The transmittal of the report was thereupon approved unani-
mously, with the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Citizens National 
Bank of Morris County, Succassuna, into the Warren County 
National Bank, Washington, would eliminate some existing as 
well as the potential for greater competition between the two 
banks. The Warren County National Bank is a subsidiary of 
First National Bancorporation, the State's largest banking 
organization. Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be adverse. 
United Bancorp of Maine. The Board approved unanimously the 
application of United Bancorp of Maine, Portland, Maine, to acquire 
shares of Central National Bank, Waterville, Maine, a proposed new 
bank, with the understanding that an order reflecting this decision 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. It was also under-
stood that the office of the Commissioner of Banks of the State of 
Maine would be advised by Mr. Leavitt, before the order was issued, of 
the reasons why the Board had decided to act on the case without 
further delay, in view of a request from that office that the Board 
withhold action pending a decision by the Maine Supreme Court on 
litigation involving denial of the application of a bank holding com-
pany to acquire shares of a proposed new State bank. 
First Texas Bancorp, Inc. Discussion of the application of 
First Texas Bancorp, Inc., Georgetown, Texas, to become a bank holding 

1942 
8/3/71 
-4-
company through the acquisition of shares of three Texas banks brought 
out that applicant proposed, for technical reasons, to make no offer to 
a few bank shareholders not residing in Texas. The Board deferred 
action with the understanding that staff would confer further with the 
applicant about the matter. 
Staff was also requested to explore the broader question of 
the extent to which decisions in bank holding company cases involving 
proposed acquisitions could justifiably be based on inequality of 
treatment accorded to shareholders, particularly minority interests, 
and to prepare a memorandum on the question for the Board's consideration. 
S. 1938. The Board approved unanimously, subject to certain 
changes, a letter to Senator Eagleton regarding S. 1938, a bill con-
cerning maximum interest rates on loans made by District of Columbia 
banks. A copy of the letter as it was transmitted is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
Silver coins as reserves. On December 9, 1970, the Board 
released an interpretation under Regulation D, Reserves of Member 
Banks, that currency or coins held by a member bank may not be used to 
satisfy a bank's reserve requirements if the bank does not have the 
full and unrestricted right to use the currency or coins to meet 
depositors' claims. Now Mocatta Metals Corporation sought a deter-
mination by the Board on whether coins held by The Charleston National 

1943 
8/3/71 
-5-
Bank, Charleston, West Virginia, under an agreement with Mocatta 
could be counted to satisfy the bank's reserve requirements. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York also had requested the 
Board's views on a silver coin agreement between Daniel J. Lander, 
Inc., and American Bank & Trust Company, New York, New York. 
Staff had prepared a draft letter to Mocatta Metals Corpora-
tion reflecting the recommendation that coins held by the bank under 
its agreement with Mocatta could not be used to satisfy reserve re-
quirements. Discussion indicated that there were certain questions 
about the sufficiency of the letter, mainly on the ground that no 
statement of reasons for the determination was included, and staff 
was requested to revise the letter along the lines indicated for the 
Board's consideration. 
In the Lander case, staff was requested to ask the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York to review the Lander agreement further in 
light of the determination in the Mocatta case and other relevant 
materials, and to submit its views to the Board. 
It was noted that earlier this year, at the request of an 
attorney, who was subsequently determined to have an interest in the 
Lander matter, the Board's staff had furnished a letter expressing the 
opinion that a hypothetical agreement between a bank and a silver dealer 
would appear to fall within the scope of the Board's 1970 interpreta-
tion. Board members urged that the staff exercise caution in dealing 

1944 
8/3/71 
-6-
with purportedly hypothetical cases, in any area of the Board's work, 
and expressing opinions with respect thereto. 
Federal loan guarantees. In response to a question from the 
Chairman, Mr. Cardon reported that the Congress had now sent to the 
White House a bill to create a Federal Emergency Loan Guarantee Board 
consisting of the Secretary of the Treasury, xvho would serve as Chair-
man, the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, and the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. -
•'*• 
" • - ->- 
. '"•>'' 1 * ' . j.- L I •1.: . ' 
' • ".I i . I ' t ' : I r.' 
The Loan Guarantee Board would have authority under this legislation, 
which would expire at the end of 1973, to grant Federal loan guaran-
tees in an amount up to $250 million outstanding at any one time. 
There was no provision in the bill for Congressional veto, but the 
Board would be required to make a complete annual report to the Congress 
and also a report no later than June 30, 1973, on whether the program 
should be continued. In considering any request for a loan guarantee 
the Board must determine whether the prospective earning power of the 
borrower together with collateral pledged would afford reasonable assur-
ance of ability to repay the loan and give reasonable protection to 
the United States. 
In further discussion, Chairman Burns remarked that the time 
would be limited for consideration by the Emergency Loan Guarantee 
Roard of the guarantee of loans to Lockheed Aircraft Corporation. In 
fact, time might not permit following all of the procedures that he 

1 9 4 5 
8/3/71 
-7-
felt would be desirable in matters of this kind as a general practice. 
In the Lockheed case, he had already testified before the Congress 
that the Lockheed situation met the economic test that should be one 
requirement before a loan guarantee was granted. As to creditworthiness, 
work had been going on through the Federal Reserve Banks of New York 
and San Francisco on a credit analysis. He would propose to take a 
hard look at that analysis, with the assistance of appropriate finan-
cial and legal staff, to form an opinion as to whether the Federal 
Government would be adequately protected if a loan guarantee were 
granted. The Chairman concluded with an indication that he would be 
glad to have other members of the Board communicate to him their views 
on the matter. 
New computer system. In an oral presentation to the Board, 
supplemented by a series of slides, the Division of Data Processing 
recommended conversion to a new computer system (IBM System 370/165) 
in the first quarter of 1972. The Division made the following specific 
recommendations: 
(1) that a letter order be issued to International 
Business Machines Corporation for rental of the computer, and (2) that 
expenditures of $132,000 in 1971 in preparation for the new system be 
authorized. Of the $132,000, $30,000 would represent funds not spent 
for another purpose in the 1971 budget of the Division of Data Processing, 
and $102,000 would represent an overexpenditure in the budget of the 

1946 
8/3/71 
-8-
Division of Administrative Services. 
After discussion, the recommendations were approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1947 
Item No. 1 
8/3/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 52 per 
cent or more of the voting shares 
of Gainesville Atlantic Bank, Gaines-
ville, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Atlantic Bancorporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 52 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Gainesville Atlantic Bank, 
Gainesville, Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 

~ 1 9 1 8 
- 2 -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Com-
missioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner responded that he recommended approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on June 9, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11126), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant has 17 subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
$645.7 million, representing 4.6 per cent of the bank deposits 
in Florida and ranks as the fourth largest bank holding company 
in the State. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through June 
1971.) Approval of the acquisition of Bank would not presently 

1949 
- 3 -
alter this ranking or increase Applicant's deposits since Bank, as 
stated above, is a proposed new bank. 
All of Applicant's existing subsidiaries are in excess 
of 45 miles from Gainesville with one exception. Applicant's First National 
Bank of Gainesville is four miles southeast of Bank and is the largest 
bank in the Gainesville area with deposits of $47.7 million. How-
ever, there are nine other banks competing in the area, including 
affiliates of Florida's first, fifth, and thirteenth largest holding 
companies. These latter three control some 44 per cent of area 
deposits and are able to provide strong competition. Moreover, 
the Gainesville area has experienced rapid population growth and 
appears to possess attractive opportunities for other de novo 
entrants. Considering the present competition existing in Gainesville 
and the probability of increased future competition, the Board con-
cludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
adversely affect competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as satis-
factory. The establishment of Bank would provide a more convenient 
banking location for many customers in the northern Gainesville area. 
Thus, considerations related to the convenience and needs of the 
community lend some weight in favor of approval. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 

- 4 -
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
and provided further that (c) Gainesville Atlantic Bank shall be 
open for business not later than six months after the date of this 
Order. The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended 
for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 3, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Maisel. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

1951 
Item No. 2 
8/3/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D« C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
UNITED MIDWEST EQUITY, INC., 
Detroit, Michigan, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 97.1 per cent of the voting shares of 
Liberty State Bank and Trust, Hamtramck, 
Michigan. 
* 
«» 
• 
. 
• 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222,3(a)), an application by United Midwest Equity, Inc., 
("Applicant"), Detroit, Michigan, for the Board's prior approval of 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 97.1 per cent of the voting shares of Liberty 
State Bank and Trust ("Bank"), Hamtramck, Michigan. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 

1952 
-2-
of Financial Institutions for the State of Michigan, and requested 
his views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval 
of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 10, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13004), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the bank concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating Michigan corporation recently 
formed for the purpose of acquiring Bank. As Applicant has no present 
operations or subsidiaries, consummation of the proposal would 
eliminate neither existing nor potential competition, and there would 
be no adverse effects on competing banks. 
Bank, with deposits of approximately $55 million, controls 
• 3 r\ 
per cent of commercial bank deposits in the State of Michigan. 
The acquisition proposed herein should result in Bank becoming a 

-3-
1953 
stronger and more viable banking institution and a more effective 
competitor in the relevant market. Banking factors weigh in favor 
of approval of the application since the transaction would place 
responsible local interests in management of Bank, and Applicant pro-
poses to undertake specific measures to improve Bank's present 
financial condition and to continue to improve operating procedures. 
While it appears that banking needs of the area are being adequately 
served at the present time, it is expected that consummation of the 
proposal will strengthen the Bank and enable it to better serve the 
banking needs of the area. Therefore, considerations relating to 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served also lend 
weight in favor of approval of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquistion 
so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 3, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Brinuner, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1954 
.••Vro,'-. 
Item No. 3 
8/3/71 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
The Honorable Thomas F. Eagleton 
A U g U S t 4' 1 9 7 1 
Chairman 
Committee on the District of Columbia 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
You have asked for the views of the Board on S. 1938, a 
bill to amend certain provisions of subtitle II of title 28, District 
ot Columbia Code, relating to interest and usury. 
Under present law in the District of Columbia, 8 per cent 
per annum is apparently the maximum rate which may be charged on loans 
not specifically otherwise covered by law. S. 1938 would, in effect, 
oaity this rule by providing that, in the case of any loan made by a 
yanking institution, the rate shall not exceed the legal maximum for 
ne type of loan in question under the laws of Virginia or Maryland, 
whichever is less. 
Existing law may operate to deprive the public of potential 
tvnp C 6% i f U n d S 3 3 W e l 1 a s t 0 i n h i b i t competition by making certain 
ypes oi lending activities unattractive to depositary institutions. 
no tab I f r V a i l i n S S t r u c t u r e o f interest rates, this effect is most 
, n / n
 y 
e l? Y l t h r e s P e c t t o home improvement loans, automobile finance, 
and personal loans repayable in installments. 
mi t» 
, T h e B o a r d favors the objective of the proposed legislation, 
ine tfoard suggests, however, that, as a matter of policy, the consid-
acions which are applicable in the case of banks are equally applicable 
the case of savings and loan associations. Also, to eliminate any 
uncertainty as to whether any given institution is covered by the 
th 1 
a S W e l 1 a S t 0 e f f e c t u a t e t h e apparent policy of confining 
e legislation to regulated lenders, it is suggested that it cover 
only Federally insured institutions. 
To carry out the foregoing suggestions, the bill could be 
amended by striking out lines 3 through 13 on page 2 and inserting 
m lieu thereof the following: 

1955 
The Honorable Thomas F. Eagleton 
-2-
"§ 28-3301a. Rate of interest for depositary 
institutions. 
"Any Federally insured bank or savings and loan 
association may lend money at any rate not exceeding 
the maximum rate which would be permissible for such 
a loan under the laws of the State of Virginia or the 
State of Maryland, whichever is less, as in effect at 
the time the loan is made. Interest on such a loan 
may be received or taken in advance to the same extent 
as permitted under the laws of the State x^hose maximum 
rate governs that loan. As used in this section, the 
term 'Federally insured bank or savings and loan 
association1 means an insured bank as defined in section 3 
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or an insured 
institution as defined in section 401 of the National 
Housing Act." 
The Board appreciates the opportunity to comment on this 
legislation. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
