MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 10, 1972 

2111 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 10, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Bilby, Consultant on Federal Reserve lending 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

8/10/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco on August 3 and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on 
August 7, 1972, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Pursuant to the recommendation in a memorandum from the Divi-
sion of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated August 3, 1972, the 
Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks relating 
to service changes for noncash collection messages. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Regulation A. 
On August 3 and 4, 1972, the Board considered 
proposed revisions of Regulation A, Advances and Discounts by Federal 
Reserve Banks. Those discussions had indicated that a majority of the 
Board was inclined to favor including a seasonal borrowing privilege in 
the Regulation. Additional documentation had been prepared and included 
memoranda from the Regulation A Task Force dated August 8, transmitting 
a draft press release incorporating suggestions made by members of the 
Board during last week's discussions, and August 10, listing issues for 
consideration with respect to incorporating a seasonal borrowing privi-
lege and making certain technical changes in Regulation A. 

2113 
8/10/72 
-3-
At today's meeting Mr. Melnicoff reported on a recent meeting 
at which discount officers of the Reserve Banks had discussed the 
proposed revision of Regulation A. Most of the discount officers had 
taken the position that it would be preferable not to specify the maxi-
mum deposit size of banks that might qualify for the seasonal borrowing 
Privilege. 
Rather, it had been suggested that the Regulation specify 
that the seasonal borrowing privilege would be extended to banks that 
might not be expected to have easy access to money market instruments. 
Discount officers also wanted to have some flexibility in terms of 
defining seasonality. 
Some of them thought that the proposal should not 
be published for comment until October, after the effective date of the 
amendments to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation J, 
Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks. 
The 
discount officers also thought that some disappointment could be expected 
as a result of the omission of a basic borrowing privilege, especially 
on the part of banks that might be adversely affected by the revisions 
in Regulation D and J. 
The Board then discussed the issues presented in the August 10 
memorandum from the Regulation A Task Force. The maximum deposit size 
for banks that might qualify had been specified as $250 million. 
Several 
members of the Board expressed reservations about this specification. 
Governor Robertson suggested that a ceiling should not be set on the size 

2114 
8/10/72 
-4-
of banks eligible for seasonal credit. He felt that seasonal credit 
should be extended to any bank not in a position to make adjustments 
to seasonal needs through access to the money market or the Federal 
funds market or through the sale of certificates of deposit. 
He 
thought that any bank that could not meet the seasonal needs of its 
community should be eligible, but that internal guidelines should be 
issued to specify that the privilege was designed primarily to meet 
the needs of small banks. Continuing discussion indicated general 
agreement with Governor Robertson's suggestion, although Chairman Burns 
expressed some concern about the seasonal needs of large banks. 
The Board also expressed agreement with the following elements 
of the seasonal borrowing privilege: (1) the minimum amount of time 
a seasonal need must persist would be eight weeks; (2) no maximum 
permissible length for a seasonal loan would be specified; (3) an 
eligible bank would be required to provide part of its seasonal needs 
(up to 5 per cent of its average total deposits in the preceding 
calendar year); and (4) the amount of credit would be calculated on 
the basis of the expected movement in deposits and loans. 
Mr. Hackley briefly discussed a number of technical and clari-
fying changes regarding the eligibility of paper that could be accepted 
by the Federal Reserve Banks as collateral for advances at the discount 
rate. The new rules would eliminate the prohibition against lending 
on paper drawn for the purchase of permanent or fixed investments. 
In 

8/10/72 
-5-
addition, the revised Regulation would provide specifically for the 
eligibility of paper the proceeds of which were used for the purchase 
of services. 
The Board expressed agreement with technical and clarifying 
changes, and questions were raised about the possibility of amending 
the Regulation only to make these changes and to implement the seasonal 
borrowing privilege through letters to the Reserve Banks and all member 
banks. However, a majority of the Board favored incorporating the 
seasonal borrowing privilege in the revised Regulation,, 
There followed a discussion of the timing of the release of 
the revised Regulation for public comment. 
In general there was a 
preference for postponing the release until the amendments to Regulations 
D and J had become effective. 
After further discussion, the Board deferred action on the 
proposal, with the understanding that it would be revised in light of 
today's discussion and distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents for 
consideration after the August 15 meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting. 
Bezanson Investments. 
In a memorandum dated July 31, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the 
applications of Bezanson Investments, Inc., and MorAmerica Financial 
Corporation, both of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to acquire shares of First 

2 1 1 G 
8/10/72 
-6-
Trust and Savings Bank, Wheatland, Iowa. The Banking Markets Section 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago also recommended denial. 
The Board unanimously denied the applications, with the under-
standing that implementing documents would be drafted. 
Chase Manhattan Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated August 1, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of an application of The Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, 
to acquire shares of Chase Manhattan Bank of Central New York (National 
Association), Syracuse, New York, a proposed new bank. The Banking 
Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York also recommended 
approval. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached under Item No. 2, along with a concurring statement of Governor 
Br imme r. 
Southwest Bancshares. 
In memoranda dated July 14 and August 1, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the applications of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire 
shares of The First National Bank at Brownsville, Brownsville, Texas, 
and The First National Bank of Port Arthur, Port Arthur, Texas. 
The 
Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas also rec-
ommended approval of both applications. 

211 / 
8/10/72 
-7-
Governor Robertson favored denial of both applications on the 
basis that it was not in the best interests of banking in the State of 
Texas to permit the most agressive banking organizations to enter new 
markets by continuing to acquire dominant and viable independent banks 
without a clear showing that benefits would result for banking customers 
in these communities. With respect to both of these applications, 
there were less anticompetitive means of entry, either de novo or 
through the acquisition of smaller banks in the two market areas. 
In 
his judgment, there were no benefits accruing to the convenience and needs 
of the communities in the relevant markets that would outweigh the anti-
competitive effects resulting from consummation of the proposed acqui-
sitions . 
The Board approved the application to acquire the Brownsville 
bank, Governor Robertson dissenting, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 3, 
along with a dissenting statement of Governor Robertson. 
The Board also approved the application to acquire the Port 
Arthur bank, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
It was understood that an 
order reflecting that decision would be prepared for the Board's consid-
eration, and that a dissenting statement would also be prepared. 
Regulation Y: 
insurance activities. 
On August 5, 1971, the 
Board approved an amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, 
to add certain insurance activities to the list of permissible activities 
for bank holding companies. 
Simplified procedures pertaining principally 

2113 
8/10/72 
-8-
to de novo insurance activities and finance company acquisitions were 
adopted by the Board on August 19, 1971. Subsequently the National 
Association of Insurance Agents (NAIA) filed a petition in the Court 
of Appeals for the District of Columbia seeking to invalidate the 
simplified procedures and filed with the Board a petition for a stay 
of the simplified procedures pending the decision of the Court. After 
discussion at meetings on December 7, 10, and 21, 1971, the Board 
revised and published for comment the sections of the Regulation regarding 
de novo entry by bank holding companies into permissible activities 
(section 225.4(b)(1)) and the simplified procedures (section 225.4(b)(3)). 
The existing simplified procedures were suspended pending consideration 
of the proposed changes. 
In a memorandum dated June 8, 1972, the Legal Division noted 
that the NAIA had filed requests to intervene in approximately half of 
the proposals by bank holding companies to engage in insurance activities, 
including almost all proposals involving the sale of insurance in towns 
over 5,000. The NAIA had also filed a request for a formal hearing in 
connection with the pending simplified procedures. The Legal Division 
recommended that the Board: (1) clarify the types of insurance that 
might be sold by a holding company (attached to the memorandum was a 
Proposed interpretation of section 225.4(a)(9) of Regulation Y); (2) order 
an informal hearing on the pending proposed simplified procedures as they 

2113 
8/10/72 
-9-
pertained to insurance activities; and (3) include as a subject for 
exploration at the hearing the question whether the Board should adopt 
rules governing holding company solicitation practices relating to 
insurance agency operations. 
At today's meeting Governors Sheehan and Bucher raised questions 
whether the Legal Division proposed to open the entire matter of insur-
ance agency activities as permissible activities for reconsideration. 
Mrs. Heller responded that the Division's intention was not to change 
the scope of the Board's previous decision, but to seek clarification 
of the type of activities the Board wished to include. 
Governor Mitchell expressed unwillingness to open the question 
of insurance agency activities as permissible activities of bank 
holding companies. He said that the Board had already taken a position 
on insurance activities, which should be defended by the staff. 
Governor 
Brimmer noted that it was the usual practice of the Board to make regu-
lations and then depend on the staff and the Reserve Banks for the 
day-to-day administration of those regulations. Mrs. Heller said that 
in many insurance activity cases the staff was unclear about the intent 
of the Board, and that clarification of the types of insurance that 
might be sold by a holding company would be helpful. 
Governor Robertson made several suggestions for revision of 
the proposed interpretation. 
He also said that he thought the Board 
was obligated to grant requests for hearings on individual cases. 

8/10/72 
-10-
Governors Brimmer and Bucher also expressed the view that there should 
be an opportunity for hearings before the Board on individual cases. 
On the other hand, Governor Mitchell emphasized the need to minimize 
the number of hearings. 
It was reported that Chairman Burns also 
preferred a minimum number of hearings. 
Governors Sheehan and Bucher indicated that they needed addi-
tional time to study the history of the Board's action with respect 
to insurance activities of bank holding companies. 
It also was suggested 
that the staff prepare a checklist pertaining to the proposed interpre-
tation for more convenient reference during the next discussion. 
Action was thereupon deferred, with the understanding that the 
Board would consider the matter further at the earliest opportunity. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2121 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
8/10/72 
ni- ecu. 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
HDOf?r.5S DfriCIAS. COR«nCuNDEN« 
TO THE BOARD 
S-2211 
August 10, 197 2 
The Board concurs in the action of the Conference of First 
Vice Presidents with respect to the absorption of the cost of tele-
grams pertaining to noncash collection items transmitted over the 
Federal Reserve'wire; that is, the Federal Reserve Banks and Brancue 
^ill Jevy a service charge of $1.50 on only those messages related o 
noncash collection items that are under $1,000, with Reserve offices 
absorb!np tlie cost of all other noncash item communications. 
Very truly yours, 
/ Tynan Smith 
' 
Secretary 
TO VB E PRESIDENTS OF ALL >T1)2UAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND THE VICE PRESIDENTS IN CrlAEGE OF BRANCH? 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
dess directors1 qualifying shares) of Chase Manhattan Bank of Central 
York (National Association), Syracuse, New York ("Bank"), a pro-
v e d new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with section 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing com-
e t s and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
a n d all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
Action 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in New 
in terras of domestic deposits, controls two subsidiary banks 
a8gregate deposits of approximately $13.6 billion, representing 
per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
Unless otherwise noted, deposit data are as of December 31, 1971, and 
^rket data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect bank holding 
c°mpany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
JUne 16^ 197 2.) 
Since Bank is a proposed new bank, no existing 
^petition would be eliminated nor would concentration be increased 
in any relevant area. 
o>-§ 9 0 
Item No. 2 
8/10/72 

2123 
-2-
Bank will be located in downtown Syracuse, and will repre-
se^t the initial entry by Applicant into the upstate New York markets, 
applicant's two existing subsidiaries are presently barred from 
inching into the Syracuse market until Statewide branching becomes 
effective on January 1, 1976. Applicant's closest banking office is 
l°cated about 250 miles southeast of Bank. Applicant's acquisition 
o t Bank would have a procompetitive effect by introducing a new com-
petitor into the highly concentrated Syracuse banking market, where 
f°ur of the 11 banks competing in that market control over 90 per 
Cent of total market deposits. Applicant's entry into this market 
should stimulate competition without having adverse effects on any 
cotnpeting bank. 
The financial condition, management, and prospects of 
applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactory. 
S*nce Bank will be able to draw on Applicant's financial and 
^agerial resources, its prospects are favorable and the banking 
Actors are consistent with approval. Considerations relating to 
tlle convenience and needs of the community to be served lend weight 
toward approval as Bank will provide an additional source of full 
inking services. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that 
tlle application should be approved. 
Applicant owns two nonbanking subsidiaries, Berkeley 
Se*vice Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, and Dovenmuehle, Inc., 

2121 
-3-
chicago, Illinois, which were acquired on June 4, 1969, and on 
December 19, 1969, respectively. Berkeley Service Corporation is 
a service agency for the Shapiro Factors Division of The Chase 
Manhattan Bank, and Dovenmuehle, Inc., is a mortgage servicing com-
pany, 
app r o v ai herein neither provides authority to Applicant 
to 
c°ntinue in the nonbanlc activities nor to retain nonbank shares 
n°r Squires the Applicant to modify or terminate said activities 
holdings. However, consummation of the proposal herein is sub-
to the continuing authority of the Board to require modifica-
tion 0 r termination of such activities or holdings (within a period 
n° shorter than two years), if the Board determines that the con-
^ u e d combination of banking and nonbanking interests is likely to 
^ave an adverse effect on the public interest. 
The provision of any credit, property or services by the 
hiding company or any affiliate thereof shall not be subject to 
any c°ndition which, if imposed by a bank, would constitute an 
Unlawful tie-in arrangement under § 106 of the Bank Holding Company 
Atnondraents of 1970. The nonbanking activities of Applicant shall 
not be altered in any significant respect from those engaged in at 
the 
time of the filing of the application herein nor shall they be 
pr°vided at any location other than as described in said application, 
ept upon compliance with the procedures of § 225.4(b)(1) of 
^eSulation Y; and no merger, or consolidation, or acquisition of 
a°3ets other than in the regular course of business, to which 

u4u 
Applicant or any affiliate thereof is a party, shall be consummated 
Without prior Board approval. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and 
Chase Manhattan Bank of Central New York (National Association), 
Syracuse, New York, shall be opened for business not later than six 
months after the effective date of this Order. Each of the periods 
Ascribed in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 10, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
<sEAL) 
^ 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
limner, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Bums and 
^sruor Daane. ' 

2126 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
As I stated in my Dissenting Statement to the Board's approval 
of the application by First National City Corporation to acquire the 
Accessor by merger to The National Exchange Bank of Castleton-on-
Hudson (37 Federal Register 14259), a review of the nonbanking activi-
ties of a one-bank holding company which became regulated as a result 
of the 1970 Amendments should precede Board approval of an application 
by that company to acquire an additional bank. However, I concur in 
tlle Board's approval of this application. 
A preliminary investigation suggests that the activities 
engaged in by Applicant's two nonbanking subsidiaries are permissible 
activities for a bank holding company under current Board regulations. 
question of whether Applicant's continued ownership of the indi-
cted nonbanking activities poses anticompetitive problems remains 
°Pen, but in passing it should be observed that these activities are 
^ite modest in both volume and scope. A comprehensive review of 
^PUcant's nonbanking activities will be undertaken shortly. 
August 10, 1972 

2127 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o < 3 
8/10/72 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES,.INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank holding 
Co®pany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
4 
0r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to Squire 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of The First National 
Bank at Brownsville, Brownsville, Texas ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
n iight of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization and third 
lar8est multi-bank holding company in Texas has five subsidiary banks 
with 
aSgregate deposits of $829 million representing approximately 2.76 
Per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the State.^ (All 
an^itig data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect bank holding company 
controls substantially all the stock of three Texas banks: 
o f the Southwest, Houston; Village National Bank, Houston; and 
app 
National Bank of Longview, Longview, Texas. Applicant holds 
Ban, °ximately 38 per cent of the voting shares of South Park National 
cent\lIouston, and has minority interests of between 4.20 and 20 per 
3.97l 
^ o u r o t h e r Houston banks whose aggregate deposits as of June 30, 
of 24 W e r e approximately $117 million. Applicant's minority interest 
t0 b
 
7 P e r c e n t in Kilgore National Bank, Kilgore, Texas, is expected 
acqJf licluidated. 
The Board approved Applicant's applications to 
d 
L° n g P o l n t National Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas ($29 million 
GP°sits) and Continental National Bank of Fort TJorth, Fort Worth, 
*sSp
S ($ 1 8 2- 2 million of deposits) on April 11, 1972, and May 24, 1972, 
Hfle 
i V e l y - 
° n J u n e 8y 1 9 7 2» Applicant received approval from the 
Reserve Bank of Dallas, acting under delegated authority, to 
Pt0
 r e Bank of Uoodlake, National Association, Houston, Texas, a 
*Ppi?Sed n e w b a n k- 
0 n J u n e 2 9 > 1 9 7 2» the Board approved Applicant's 
t o acquire The Denton County National Bank of Denton, Denton, 
a s ($33 million of deposits). 

- 2 -
2128 
acquisitions approved through May 31, 1972.) Consummation of the pro-
Posed acquisition of Bank (deposits of approximately $51 million) 
w°uld increase Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in the 
State by .16 percentage points and Applicant's rank in the State 
be unchanged. The proposed acquisition represents Applicant's 
^itial entry into the Brownsville-Harlingen-San Benito area which 
approximates Bank's relevant market.-^ 
Bank, second largest of nine banks in the Brownsville-
^arlingen-San Benito area, controls approximately 23 per cent of 
total deposits of commercial banks in that market. Upon consummation 
^ the present proposal, Applicant would become the only bank holding 
C°mpany represented in the Brownsville-lIarlingen-San Benito area. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank located nearest to Bank is in 
Ho 
us ton, Texas, approximately 350 miles north of Bank. It appears 
tllat no meaningful competition exists between Bank and any of Applicant's 
u^sidiary banks. Further, it seems unlikely that meaningful com-
petition would develop in the future between Bank and Applicant's 
Subsidiaries in light of the facts presented, particularly the dis-
Ces separating these banks, and the Texas statutes prohibiting 
nch banking. Applicant could enter the market de novo. However, 
Prospect appears unlikely in view of the number of banks already 
in that market, the decline in population (7.1 per cent from 1960 to 
and the relatively high unemployment in the communities served 
apni 
a d d i t l o n t o t h e present application, Applicant has filed an 
£0Jjlcation with the Board to acquire The First National Bank at 
Arthur, Port Arthur, Texas. 

2129 
- 3 -
by these banks. Acquisition by Applicant of one of the smaller banks 
the market might have a somewhat more favorable effect on competition 
than the proposal herein. However, Bank is not regarded as a likely 
Prospect for the formation of a new bank holding company and it 
aPPears that acquisition of Bank would not have a significant adverse 
I 
effect on the remaining banks in the relevant market nor foreclose 
er*try by other bank holding companies into that market as eight inde-
pendent banks would remain as potential members of other bank holding 
company organizations. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
ttlat consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
^fect on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Appiicant an(j i t s subsidiaries appear satisfactory. Bank appears to 
in satisfactory financial condition although its capital position 
i s belox* desired levels. Applicant has agreed to make a significant 
contribution of equity capital to Bank. The expected strengthening of 
bank's capital position lends weight to approval of the application. 
Although the major banking needs of the relevant area appear 
adequately served at the present time, Applicant proposes to assist 
Bank in providing increased lending capacity, international banking 
and other expanded services as the need develops. Considerations re-
nting to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
aPPear consistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's 
^dgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest and that 
^ e application should be approved. 

2130 
- 4 -
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
6f£ective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective September 1, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
if Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Brimner, Sheehan, 
an<* Bucher. Voting against this action: Vice Chairman Robertson. 
Ahsent and not voting* Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 

2 J L 3 .L 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
The wresting of control over financial resources from 
regional interests by a feu giant bank holding company organizations 
Texas continues with the Board's action approving entry of the 
State's fifth largest banking organization into the Brownsville area 
through acquisition of the second largest bank in that market. 
On a number of previous occasions, I have questioned the 
Wisdom of permitting the financial power of this country to become 
toore centralized in a small number of giant banking organizations. 
In no State is this trend more apparent than in Texas where the 
date's largest banking organizations continue to enter new markets 
throughout the State by acquiring the larger, most viable independent 
banks in those markets without any showing of benefits flowing to the 
banking customers in these communities. I find it necessary to re-
assert my objections to this method of Statewide expansion which I 
^Pressed in my Dissenting Statement with respect to Applicant's 
recent application to acquire the third largest bank in Fort Worth, 
^plication of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to 
accluire Continental National Bank of Fort Worth, 72 Federal Reserve 
jHjletin 591). 
The facts of Applicant's present proposal suggest clearly 
that l e s s anticompetitive means of entry into the Brownsville-
Harlingen-San Benito market are available. The relatively high 
tatio of persons per banking office in this market (15,596 compared 

2 1 . 3 2 
-2-
^ith 9,276 Statewide) suggests that the prospects for dei novo entry 
favorable. Further, several smaller banks are available to 
Applicant as an entry vehicle into this market. In fact, Applicant's 
lead bank has financed the purchase of the third largest bank in the 
Relevant banking market. Acquisition of that bank or another of the 
smaller unaffiliated banks in the area would serve to stimulate corn-
Petition whereas the proposed transaction will further entrench an 
Steady dominant bank in the market. 
Bank appears to be in satisfactory financial condition and 
ifcs future prospects with or without affiliation with Applicant appear 
^Vorable. It also appears that the banking needs of the relevant corn-
unities are being adequately served by the banks presently operating 
in that area. Although Applicant's commitment to bolster Bank's 
CaPital position constitutes a favorable consideration, it is not 
a sufficient factor to swing the balance in favor of approval of this 
Proposal. X see no benefits accruing to the convenience and needs of 
communities in the relevant market which would outweigh the anti-
competitive effects resulting from consummation of the proposed trans-
ition. I would deny this application. 
SePtember 1, 1072. 
