u 
Minutes for 
April 14, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

1 2 6 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 14, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
* 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
•51 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Lynch and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cloth, Goodfellow, and Lanier of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Application of Texas National Bank (Item No. 1). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation dated April 8, 1969, relating to the application of Texas 
National Bank of Commerce, Houston, Texas, for permission to establish 
a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. The proposed operation differed from other 

1269 
4A4/69 
-2-
recent proposals for Nassau branches approved by the Board in that 
there would be no services supplied under contract; a resident man-
ager would be appointed from the head office to handle the operations. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would vote against approval. 
He recognized that such action might be regarded as inequitable in 
light of the approvals already given to other banks. However, he 
foresaw a further wave of Nassau branch applications, and he did not 
look with favor on the prospect of a proliferation of such offices. 
The application was then approved, Governor Robertson dis-
senting. A copy of the letter sent to Texas National Bank of Commerce 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
Application of Continental International Finance Corporation 
(Items 2 and 3). At its meeting on April 4, 1969, the Board deferred, 
pending further study of certain questions, consideration of the 
application of Continental International Finance Corporation, Chicago, 
Illinois, for permission (1) to acquire the shares of Continental 
International Finance S.A., to be formed in Luxembourg, and (2) to 
continue to hold shares of the latter corporation after it issued 
promissory notes that would bear the guaranty of Continental Illinois 
National Bank and Trust Company. Proceeds of the notes would be used 
by the foreign branches and affiliated organizations of the parent 
bank in the ordinary course of their banking business. 
In a memorandum dated March 24, 1969, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation had pointed out that the request again raised 

1270 
4/14/69 
-6-
the question, considered earlier in connection with an application 
of Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, New York, 
New York, whether the proceeds of such notes would constitute deposits 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D, Reserves of 
Member Banks, and the interest limitations of Regulation Q, Payment 
of Interest on Deposits. 
It had been the conclusion of the Legal Division in connection 
with the Morgan Guaranty application that the promissory notes and 
the liability of the parent member bank in connection therewith involved 
deposits that would be subject to Regulations D and Q unless one of 
the exceptions in sections 204.1(f) of Regulation D and 217.1(f) of 
Regulation Q was applicable. 
• iiv/i •'( ; : • ' 
The Legal Division now concluded that Regulations D and Q would 
t-ul) i , \ • : 
. > 
not apply to a member bank's liability on such guaranteed notes if 
both the notes and the guaranty were expressly made payable only out-
side the United States. 
Attached to the March 24 memorandum was a proposed letter to 
Continental International Finance Corporation that would grant consent 
J C 
.; . •: > I , 
to the acquisition and holding of shares of Continental International 
Finance S.A. and apprise the corporation of the Legal Division's 
conclusion with respect to the applicability of Regulations D and Q. 
It was proposed also that Morgan Guaranty be informed of the modification 
of the position taken by the Board in its earlier letter. 

X/Q s! 
4/14/69 
-4-
Governor Robertson remarked that he had discussed the conclu-
sion of the Legal Division with Mr. Doyle and, despite some uneasiness 
regarding the guaranteed notes problem, would not object. 
The proposed letters were then approved unanimously. Copies 
are attached as Items 2 and 3. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget 
4 
regarding H.R. 5832, a bill "To 
extend from thirty to sixty days 
the minimum period of time which 
must elapse between the required 
publication or service of a proposed 
Federal regulation and its effective 
date." 
Letter to Travis, Warren, Nayer 6c 
5 
Burgoyne, Detroit, Michigan, regarding 
a proposal of Michigan Bank, N.A., 
Detroit, Michigan, to make group life 
insurance available, without charge, 
to individuals opening new checking 
accounts. 
Letter to Donovan, Leisure, Newton, and 
6 
Irvine, New York, New York, regarding a 
request for a determination (1) that two 
employee stock purchase plans of Genesco, 
Inc., Nashville, Tennessee, qualified for 
the exemption from the credit limitations 
of Regulation G, Credit by Persons other 
than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for the 
Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered 

4/14/69 
-5-
i 
Equity Securities, afforded stock option 
and stock purchase plans meeting the 
requirements of section 207.4(a)(2); and 
(2) that credit extended by certain banks 
to the trustee administering the plans 
for the purpose of financing such plans 
qualified for the exemption from the margin 
requirements provided by section 221.2(b) 
of Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the 
Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered 
Stocks. 
Proposed amendments to Regulation J (Item No. 7). At its 
meeting on March 3, 1969, the Conference of Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks approved recommendations contained in a joint report 
of the Subcommittee on Collections and the Subcommittee on Commercial 
Law dated February 14, 1969, that Regulation J, Collection of Checks 
and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks, be amended so as (1) to 
authorize the paying banks to return unpaid items directly to sending 
banks, and (2) to establish a procedure under which a Reserve Bank 
sued on a cash item may, if it has tendered defense to the sending bank 
and such tender has not been accepted, recover the amount of any adverse 
judgment, as well as expenses of litigation, by charging the sending 
bank's account. The Conference of Presidents also approved the rec-
ommendation of the Subcommittees for certain amendments to the circulars 
°f the Reserve Banks relating to the indirect routing of cash items 
and the collection of items payable at street addresses. 
In a memorandum dated March 27, 1969, Mr. Hackley recommended 
that the Board publish the proposed amendments to Regulation J in the 

1273 
4/14/69 
-6-
Federal Register for comment. He also recommended that the Board 
indicate to the Reserve Banks that the proposed amendments to the 
collection circulars would not be inconsistent with Regulation J. 
A draft notice for publication in the Federal Register and a draft 
letter to the Reserve Banks were attached to the memorandum. 
Mr. Hackley's recommendations were approved unanimously. 
Attached as Item No. 7 is a copy of the letter subsequently sent 
to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon 
withdrew at this point. 
Policy on unionization and collective bargaining. Governor 
Sherrill related that the Presidents' Conference Committee on Man-
agement and Personnel had met with Judge Pierce last night and again 
th is morning to review the latest draft statement of policy on 
unionization and collective bargaining, with the objective of arriving 
at a final draft that would be recommended today to the Conference of 
Presidents prior to a meeting of the Board and the Presidents this 
afternoon. The Committee, he said, was proposing a few changes in 
the statement, the nature of which he outlined. 
The Presidents, Governor Sherrill thought, were arriving at 
a reasonably uniform position. There was one dissent within the 
Committee on the part of President Bopp, who believed it would be 
preferable for the Reserve Banks to move along the lines of the National 

4/14/69 
-7-
Labor Relations Act, but this position had no support. Also, it 
was the view of the St. Louis Bank, represented by First Vice 
President Lewis, that it would be better just to adopt Executive 
Order 10988, with some statement of the nonapplicable sections. 
This view reflected what Governor Sherrill believed to be a mis-
apprehension, namely, that the Reserve Banks would have greater 
latitude for resistance in the area of unfair labor practices. 
This was contrary to the view of Judge Pierce. 
In addition, Governor Sherrill said, there remained some 
differences of opinion concerning the composition of the labor 
relations panel (appeal board) provided for in Judge Pierce's 
document. He hoped agreement would be reached on that point, and 
others, so that the Board would be in a position to receive a recom-
mendation of the Presidents' Conference and then take final action. 
Governor Sherrill added that the Committee members, with one 
reservation, felt the document should be issued as a Board order. 
The New York Bank, represented by First Vice President Treiber, held 
the view that the statement should emanate from the Conference of 
Presidents as a document recommended for approval by the Board in its 
supervisory capacity. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

I t ^ i J 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
• F THE 
4/14/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 14, 1969. 
Texas National Bank of Commerce, 
712 Main Street, 
Houston, Texas. 77002 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Texas National Bank of Commerce, Houston, 
Texas, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be 
used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United Stat 
es. It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local public at the branch. In view of the unusual 
character of this operation, the foregoing permission is granted 
subject to continuing special observation and review by the Board 
and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified. The foregoing 
permission is also granted on the condition that adequate informa-
tion covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your 
head office and will be available to the Board and its accredited 
representatives. The Board should be promptly notified of any 
modification in the branch's methods of operation. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before May 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby shall 
® deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 

1276 
Texas National Bank of Commerce 
-2-
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's opera-
tions maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside 
the United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any invest-
ment required will be made within the guidelines established under 
the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of your bank, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

VC/ t 
of 
. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 2 
4/14/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R C S P O N D E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 14, 1969 
Continental International Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of October 7, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("CIFC") to purchase and hold all of the shares of 
Continental International Finance S.A. ("CIFSA"), Luxembourg, at 
a cost of approximately $2,400,000 to be paid through the transfer 
of stock of Banque Europeenne d'Outre-Mer S.A. ("BE0M") held by CIFC, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. In this connection, the Board also approves the pur-
chase and holding of shares of CIFSA in excess of 10 per cent of 
your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing transfer in no way alters the conditions 
set forth in the Board's letter of April 4, 1968, granting consent 
for CIFC to acquire the shares of BEOM. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CIFSA by CIFC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That CIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in CIFSA if CIFSA at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if CIFSA establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Luxembourg or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to CIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of CIFSA as it may require from time 
to time; 

Continental International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
CIFSA be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if CIFSA were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That CIFC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of CIFSA at a net amount in excess of its pro-
portionate share of the book capital accounts of 
CIFSA, after giving effect to the elimination of 
all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by CIFSA in Luxembourg 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, with copies of the final Articles of Asso-
ciation and By-Laws of CIFSA. 
The Board of Governors also approves the continued holding 
of the stock of CIFSA by CIFC after CIFSA (a) acquires and holds 
shares of BEOM now held by CIFC, and (b) issues promissory notes 
in the amount of up to $12,000,000 and with maturities of up to 
10 years. 
The Board understands that Continental Illinois National 
Bank and Trust Company of Chicago will guarantee payment of the 
notes issued by CIFSA, thus making them direct, primary obligations 
of that bank payable at its office in Chicago, and that the proceeds 
thereof will be used by that bank's foreign branches and affiliates 
in the ordinary course of their banking business. In these circum-
stances, such notes would be "deposits" of that bank under Sections 
204.1(f) of Regulation D and 217.1(f) of Regulation Q. Such notes 
would therefore be subject to the requirements and restrictions of 
those Regulations unless one of the exceptions specified in those 
Sections were applicable or unless both the notes and the guaranty 
were expressly made payable only outside the United States. 

Continental International 
-•Finance Corporation 
-3-
t va^V J sM 
• 
•' 
• 
.
.
'
»
* 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, Continental Illinois National 
Bank and Trust Company of Chicago and Continental Bank International, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
< t •• • ' 
.' j 
j 
( 
:' . . 
) ;) . • '' 
.. i. _ 
:* 
; 
. . • \c 
- 
. 
' . 
, 
JI '.i i 
K 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE S Y S T E M 
4/14/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 17, 1969. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to the Board's letter of July 1, 1968, 
granting consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold the 
capital stock of Morgan Guaranty Finance Limited, Hamilton, Bermuda. 
• 
-
In acting on a recent application the Board had cause to 
review the position of a parent bank's guaranty of a foreign sub-
sidiary's obligations under Regulations D and Q, discussed in the 
last two paragraphs of the aforementioned letter. 
As a result of this review, the Board concluded that in 
addition to the exceptions noted in its July 1, 1968, letter Regu-
lations D and Q would also not apply to a member bank's liability 
on such guaranteed notes if both the notes and the guaranty were 
expressly made payable only outside the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
K 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 4 
4/14/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 14, 1969. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your memorandum of March 11, 1969, 
requesting the Board's views on H. R. 5832, a bill "To extend from 
thirty to sixty days the minimum period of time which must [e] lapse 
between the required publication or service of a proposed Federal 
regulation and its effective date." In particular, the bill would 
amend section 553(d) of title 5, United States Code, which provides 
that " . . . publication or service of a substantive rule shall be 
made not less than 30 days before its effective date, . . . .", by 
striking out "30 days" and inserting in lieu thereof "60 days". 
The publication of a substantive rule prior to its 
effective date serves the purposes of (1) bringing the proposal to 
the attention of those who would be affected by it in order that 
they might express their views on the matter, and (2) of affording 
them time to take measures that may be necessary for compliance with 
the rule as finally adopted. The minimum period of 30 days provided 
in section 553(d) relates to the second of these purposes and to the 
Publication requirements of section 552(b)(3); section 553 does 
not establish a minimum period during which interested persons are 
to be permitted to express their views on a proposed substantive 
rule, but a reasonable time must be allowed for comment (unless one 
°f the exceptions permitted by the section applies). See Attorney 
.General's Manual on the Administrative Procedure Act at pp. 28-29 and 
35-38. 
It has been the Board's experience that, in most cases, 
Persons who are directly affected by its substantive rules do not 
need 60 days after a rule is published in final form in order to 
Prepare for compliance. In those cases in which the complexity 
°f a rule, or the nature of the compliance action required by the 
rule, is such that reasonably diligent persons cannot be expected 

1 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
V-
to prepare to comply within the minimum period of 30 days specified 
in section 553(d), "due process of law" considerations require 
that more time be given and in such cases the Board allows 
additional time. 
With respect to its own rule making functions, therefore, 
the Board knows of no useful purpose that would be served by 
requiring generally, as would H.R. 5832, that substantive rules 
be published in final form at least 60 days before their effective 
date. On the other hand, such a requirement would make it 
necessary for the Board, in order to avoid undue delay in substantive 
rule making, to invoke more frequently the exception provided in 
section 553(d)(3) under which a rule may be made effective sooner 
"for good cause found and published with the rule." 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Seoretary. 

B C D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 4 
4/14/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E B P O N D C N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 15, 1969. 
Mr. Harry M. Nayer, 
Travis, Warren, Nayer 6c Burgoyne, 
2966 Penobscot Building, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48226 
Dear Mr. Nayer: 
This refers to your letter of February 12, 1969, to 
Mr. Thomas D. DeShazo, Deputy Comptroller of the Currency, on 
behalf of Michigan Bank, N.A., requesting approval of that bank's 
proposal to make group life insurance available, without charge, 
to individuals opening new checking accounts. 
It is understood that under the proposed plan customers 
who maintain an account for 60 days are eligible for group life 
insurance. The amount of insurance, not to exceed $1,000, is equal 
to the average balance in the customer's account during the calendar 
month commencing two months prior to the month of computation. The 
cost would be 65^ per $1,000 of insurance coverage per month or 
fraction thereof and would be absorbed by the bank. 
On the basis of the information submitted, the Board is 
of the opinion that the absorption of the cost of insurance under 
the proposed plan by Michigan Bank, N.A., would constitute a payment 
for the account of the depositor as compensation for the use of funds 
on deposit and would therefore be an indirect payment of interest on 
a demand deposit in violation of § 217.2(a) of Regulation Q and 
section 19(i) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371a). 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

12! 
1284 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 6 
4/14/69 
/4Y 
RES^'* 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 15, 1969. 
James R. Withrow, Jr., Esq., 
Donovan, Leisure, Newton, and Irvine, 
Two Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Dear Mr. Withrow: 
This is in response to your letter of November 21, 1968, request-
ing the Board to determine that two employee stock purchase plans of 
Genesco, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee ("Genesco"), Employee Incentive Plan 
A and Employee Incentive Plan B (hereinafter "Plan A" and "Plan B", 
respectively) qualify for the exemption from the credit limitations of 
Regulation G afforded stock option and stock purchase plans meeting the 
requirements of section 207.4(a)(2) of the regulation. The plans are 
administered by a Trustee, and the Board has also been requested to 
determine that credit extended by certain banks to the Trustee to finance 
such plans qualifies for the exemption from the margin requirements 
provided by section 221.2(b) of Regulation U. 
You represent that under both plans, eligible employees are 
permitted to acquire shares of special, non-registered, non-dividend 
preferred stock ("Employee Stock") by regular installment payments over 
a period of time. This employee stock is convertible into Genesco's 
common stock when fully paid. When an employee wishes to purchase 
shares of Employee Stock under either of the plans, he executes a note 
to the Trustee for the purchase price of the stock, which is then issued 
by Genesco in the employee's name and held by the Trustee as collateral. 
Payments for the shares under Plan A are made to the Trustee both by 
the employee, through regular payroll deductions, and by Genesco, through 
quarterly payments consisting of accrued interest on the payroll deduc-
tions and additional "incentive" compensatory payments keyed to a per-
centage of Genesco's current dividend on its common stock. Under Plan 
B, which is basically "non-contributory", the shares are entirely paid 
for by Genesco through compensatory payments, except in certain limited 
circumstances. Plan A contemplates payment for the stock in not more 
than ten years; Plan B would require about 15 years for the stock note 
to be fully paid. 

1285 
James R. Withrow, Jr., Esq. 
- 2 ~ 
To qualify for exemption from the initial margin requirements 
of Regulation G, pursuant to subparagraph (2) of section 207.4(a), a 
plan must require the borrowing officer or employee to make installment 
payments (a) at least quarterly, (b) in an amount per annum at least 
equal to 20 per cent of the "deficiency" (the amount by which the credit 
extended exceeds the normal margin loan permitted), (c) for a minimum 
of three years. In addition, the plan must provide that the officer 
or employee may not withdraw, pledge, or otherwise dispose of all or 
any part of the stock until (a) all repayments have been made for the 
three year period and the deficiency has been repaid, or, (b) as a 
result of an increase in the market value of the collateral, the credit 
still owing the plan-lender is no longer greater than the amount normally 
permitted to be lent under the margin rules. 
Both Genesco's plans satisfy the exemption's requirements 
regarding "frequency payment", "minimum duration of paydown period" and 
"disposition of collateral". However, because of the "incentive" feature 
of both plans, it appears that the effective "deficiency reduction" will 
be about 15 per cent after one year and 45 per cent after three years 
with Plan A, and about 4 per cent after one year and 14 per cent after 
three years with Plan B, rather than 20 per cent and 60 per cent as 
contemplated by the regulation. 
In the support of the request that the Board permit a lesser 
percentage of the deficiency to be repaid each year for both plans, you 
state that in addition to complying with the other enumerated require-
ments of the exemption provision, other factors involving the operation 
and administration of the plans "virtually eliminate any possibility of 
an employee disposing of his stock before it is substantially paid in 
full." Genesco actively discourages its employees from leaving the 
plan prior to completion of full payment: an employee may not discontinue 
participation until three years after the extension of credit; moreover, 
subsequent premature departure may bar such employee from full partici-
pation in the plans in the future. 
As regards the substantial disparity between the deficiency 
reduction likely to be achieved as a result of Plan B's projected repay-
ments (approximately 4 per cent after one year and 14 per cent after 
three years) and the figure specified in section 207.4(a)(2) of Regulation 
G, Genesco seeks to substitute a lower paydown over a longer period for 
the regulation's higher paydown of 20 per cent per year over a period 
of at least three years. You represent that this would be accomplished 
by an amendment to Plan B which would provide for no discontinuation of 
participation in the plan prior to the expiration of seven years from 
the extension of the credit, or until at least 50 per cent of the origi-
nal credit has been repaid as a result of periodic payments, whichever 
comes first. 

1 2 8 6 
James R. Withrow, Jr., Esq. 
- 3 • 
Upon consideration of the plans and all relevant facts in 
connection therewith, the Board has decided to grant Genesco's appli-
cation to permit at least 15 per cent of the deficiency to be repaid each 
year with respect to Plan A, and to permit Plan B to provide for repay-
ment of credit only by periodic "incentive" compensation, as described 
above, as long as Plan B is amended as proposed. 
Section 221.2(b) of Regulation U exempts from the margin and 
other requirements of the regulation credit extended by a bank to a plan-
lender to finance a stock option or employee purchase plan that qualifies 
under section 207.4(a)(2) of Regulation G, so long as the bank has no 
recourse, either directly or indirectly, to any stock purchased pursuant 
to such plan. 
Under both plans, funds are advanced by Genesco to the Trustee 
to purchase from Genesco shares of Employee Stock which are subsequently 
sold to employees. Annually, near the end of Genesco's fiscal year, the 
Trustee obtains one or more unsecured lines of bank credit, guaranteed 
by Genesco, in an aggregate amount sufficient to repay Genesco's total 
annual advances. In the event of the Trustee's default, Genesco repre-
sents it would sell an issue of common stock through an underwriting 
and use the net proceeds to satisfy the Trustee's notes. No stock 
would be pledged or placed in escrow. 
In the circumstances described, the Board has determined that 
Genesco's guarantee of the Trustee's unsecured bank borrowings does 
not result in the credit extended by the banks being ineligible for the 
exemption provided by section 221.2(b) of Regulation U 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1287 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 7 
4/14/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 14, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
At its meeting on March 3, 1969, the Conference of 
aPProved recommendations contained in a Joint Report of the Subcommittee 
Collections and the Subcommittee on Commercial Law dated February 14, 
l9&9, that the Board's Regulation J be amended in certain respects in 
°rder (1) to authorize paying banks to return unpaid items directly to 
Ending banks and (2) to establish a procedure under which a Reserve 
B*nk sued on a cash item may, if it has tendered defense to the sending 
bank and such tender has not been accepted, recover the amount of any 
Averse judgment, as well as expenses of litigation, by charging the 
8ending bank's account. 
The Board is transmitting to the Federal Register for publica-
tlon for comment proposed amendments to Regulation J in the form suggested 
lr* the Joint Report of the Subcommittee on Collections and the Subcommittee 
Commercial Law, and a copy of the notice for publication in the Federal 
Agister is enclosed for your information. 
The Conference of Presidents at its meeting on March 3, 1969, 
alao approved recommendations made by the Subcommittee on Collections 
the Subcommittee on Commercial Law for an amendment to the circulars 
of the Reserve Banks relating to the collection of cash items that would 
delude the following uniform paragraph with respect to circuitous routing: 
"Under Section 4-204(1) of the Uniform Commercial Code, 
a collecting bank must send items by reasonably prompt methods, 
taking into consideration any relevant instruction, the nature 
of the items, the number of such items on hand, the cost of col-
lection involved, and the methods generally used by it or others 
to present such items. In furtherance of the purpose of this 
requirement, and in the interests of good banking, the indirect 
routing of cash items is discouraged, and member and nonmember 
clearing banks should not send to us or to other Federal Reserve 
Banks for our account any items payable in other Federal Reserve 

-2-
Districts which bear the endowments of banks located In other 
Federal Reserve Districts, in cases where it is evident that 
such items have been routed indirectly." 
The Conference further approved a recommendation made by the Sub 
committees that the following uniform provision be included in the Reserve 
Bank circulars relating to the collection of noncash items: 
"This Bank will not handle as a noncash item any item 
described in paragraph 3 of this operating circular if: 
"(a) . . . 
"(f) The item is a bill of exchange or draft, has attached 
thereto stock certificates or other documents (except evidences 
of indebtedness) representing a right in or to stocks, and is 
not payable by, at or through a bank."* 
* Paragraph 3 of the'circular, referred to in the text < ^ r i b e s 
the it ems wh i ch th e Federal Reserve Banks will receive or handling 
as noncash items unless otherwise provided by the circular. 
The Board has reviewed the above-proposed amendments to the 
Reserve Bank collection circulars and in its judgmentsuchamendments 
would not be inconsistent with the provisions of Regulation.J. It is 
assumed that each Reserve Bank will proceed in due course to make these 
changes in its circulars effective. 
. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
! 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
