M M 
609 
Minutes for 
March 19, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, March 19, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chai rman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr 
Mr 
Mr 
Mr 
Mr, 
Mr, 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
. Holland, Secretary 
, Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Hexter, General Counsel 
Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Gramley, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Via of the Legal Division 
Fry of the Division of Research and Statistics 

952 
3/19/69 
-2-
Application of Citizens Trust and Savings Bank (Items 1-3). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and revised statement 
reflecting the Board's denial on February 20, 1969, of the applica-
tion of Citizens Trust and Savings Bank, South Haven, Michigan, to 
acquire the assets and assume the deposit liabilities of The West 
Michigan Savings Bank, Bangor, Michigan. The paragraph in the state-
ment on "convenience and needs" had been revised along lines suggested 
by Governor Mitchell on March 17. A dissenting statement by Governor 
Daane also had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
A copy of Governor Daane's dissenting statement is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
Reports on consumer safeguard bills (Items 4 and 5). There 
had been distributed memoranda from the Legal Division dated March 17, 
1969, relating to requests from Senator Ribicoff, Chairman of the Sub-
committee on Executive Reorganization of the Committee on Government 
Operations, and Senator Sparkman, Chairman of the Banking and Currency 
Committee, for reports, respectively, on S. 860, a bill to establish a 
Department of Consumer Affairs, and S. 721, a bill to safeguard con-
sumer interests in connection with credit cards. 
S. 860 would establish, at Cabinet level, a Department of 
Consumer Affairs, to be responsible for protecting and representing 

952 
3/19/69 
-3-
the interests of consumers. Among other points the bill would provide 
for transfer to the new department of the functions and responsibili-
ties now delegated to the Board under truth in lending. A proposed 
reply to Chairman Ribicoff would urge favorable action on S. 860. 
S. 721, a bill "To safeguard the consumer by requiring greater 
standards of care in the issuance of unsolicited credit cards and by 
limiting the liability of consumers for the unauthorized use of credit 
cards," would amend the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Board 
would be required to prescribe regulations governing the conditions 
under which unsolicited credit cards could be issued, either by banks 
or by nonbank issuers. Such regulations would prescribe minimum 
standards for checking the credit-worthiness of prospective card 
holders in order to protect consumers against overextending themselves 
and, in the case of a Federally-insured bank as issuer, to safeguard 
the safety and soundness of the bank. The bill would limit to $50 the 
liability of the holder for unauthorized use of a credit card. In 
certain circumstances the card holder would not be liable at all for 
such use. 
The memorandum reviewed the position taken by Governor Brimmer 
in Congressional testimony relating to credit cards. His statements 
bearing particularly on matters of the kinds covered by S. 721 had 
been taken into account by the Legal Division in drafting the proposed 
report to Chairman Sparkman. 

3/19/69 
-4-
The report would express the view that provisions of the bill 
relative to the prescription of standards for the issuance of unsolic-
ited credit cards by banks were neither necessary nor desirable; that, 
however, the Board was not sufficiently familiar with practices among 
nonbank issuers of credit cards to pass judgment on the need for legis-
lation. The Board would favor enactment of legislation along the lines 
of S. 721 limiting the liability of issuees of credit cards for unau-
thorized use of their cards, such legislation preferably to be at the 
Federal level and in such a form as not to require implementation by 
regulations. The report would stress that the assignment of additional 
duties to the Board in regard to the protection of consumers was not 
consistent with effective performance of the Board's responsibilities 
in the field of monetary policy. It would suggest that administrative 
responsibility for such legislation be vested in an agency more inti-
mately concerned with consumer matters. 
Governor Brimmer commented that one theme to be stressed con-
tinuously was the distinction between recognition of a need for 
legislation to protect the consumer in certain areas and assignment of 
administrative responsibility for such legislation to the Board. 
In this connection Governor Mitchell suggested that the objec-
tion to the assignment of additional duties be couched in terms that 
the duties were not operationally or functionally related to the 
Performance of responsibilities in the field of monetary policy, rather 
than that they were inconsistent with such responsibilities. 

3/19/69 
-5-
Governor Brimmer suggested that the agency to which the duties 
might more appropriately be assigned should better be described as one 
more intimately involved, rather than concerned, with consumer matters. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the report on S. 721 tracked his 
testimony last year. He shared the view in the draft favoring enact-
ment of legislation at the Federal level limiting the liability of 
issuees of credit cards for unauthorized use of their cards. However, 
some members of the staff held a different view on the position the 
Board should take. 
Mr. Shay pointed out that a matter of strategy was involved. 
If the Board stated that legislation was needed, it would be vulnerable 
to an assumption that the Federal Reserve would be the logical adminis-
trator. Mr. Solomon said it seemed to him there was support for a 
position that he would consider more likely to protect the Board from 
having the responsibility thrust upon it. A statement to the effect 
that legislation was needed would infer that the Board had a certain 
amount of knowledge and competence in the area. However, the proposed 
legislation would relate to both bank and nonbank credit cards, and 
in the latter area the Board's competence might be subject to debate. 
Mr. Cardon, on the other hand, favored the more positive 
approach. It had been a matter of some months since Governor Brimmer 
testified, and during that time the Board should have made up its 
mind whether legislation was needed. He did not believe that tacti-
cally one approach would make the Board more vulnerable than the other. 

952 
3/19/69 
-6-
Governor Mitchell commented that credit cards, whether issued 
by banks or nonbanks, were a substitute for money, and it was not 
appropriate for the Board to be indifferent to developments of that 
kind. The proposed report did differentiate between bank and nonbank 
credit cards. Although there was reason for the Board to be particu-
larly concerned about the former, there was also reason to be concerned 
about the latter. He would be willing to express concern for both 
types. 
On the question of liability, Governor Mitchell foresaw a 
tremendous development in the credit card business and expressed the 
view that in time they would displace traveler's checks. It could 
pose a great hardship to the individual card holder to assume 
liability for loss or misuse of a card, whereas it should be possible 
for the issuer to carry insurance at nominal cost. A $50 cut-off was 
agreeable to him. 
Governor Daane stated that he was troubled by what appeared 
to be a setting aside of responsibility as it related to nonbank 
credit cards on the ground that the Board was not sufficiently familiar 
with practices in that area to pass judgment on the need for legisla-
tion. He believed that Governor Brimmer was as well informed as any 
°f the authorities to express a view. He agreed with Governor Mitchell 
that conceptually it was difficult to see why the nonbank credit card 
w
as not of concern to the Board. At a minimum the Board should express 
a
 desire to defer judgment pending further study. 

3/19/69 
-7-
Governor Sherrill commented that it seemed to him the Board 
was dealing with a major change in regulatory philosophy and should 
consider carefully the direction in which it might be heading. If 
nonbank credit cards were brought under the Board's purview, the Board 
would be verging on responsibility for total credit control. Such a 
move would represent a major expansion beyond the area on which the 
Board had focused in the past. 
Governor Maisel said that with respect to the general problem 
his reaction was similar to that of Governor Mitchell. It was obvious 
that credit cards were becoming a key part of the payments mechanism. 
It seemed to him that the Board's interest in the matter was more from 
the standpoint of the payments mechanism than from the standpoint of 
credit control. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the Board was not sufficiently 
knowledgeable in the field of nonbank credit cards to take a dogmatic 
position. However, it seemed to him that Congress was likely to lump 
the bank and nonbank credit card problems together and assign the 
Board responsibility for issuing regulations pertaining to both. One 
w
ay to approach the matter would be, with respect to bank credit cards, 
to express doubt as to the need for legislation but state that if 
Congress should decide legislation was necessary it should be in the 
form of a statutory prohibition against the mailing of unsolicited 
credit cards. Regulations would then be unnecessary. 

952 
3/19/69 
-8-
Governor Brimmer, however, pointed out that the bill was drawn 
on the basis of testimony already received, of which his had been a 
major part. He reiterated that he favored the report as drafted, 
taking into account editorial-type changes that might be desirable. 
Agreement having been reached on certain language modifications, 
approval was then given to the sending of reports to Senator Ribicoff 
and Senator Sparkman in the forms attached as Items 4 and 5, respec-
tively. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Monetary policy. In a memorandum of March 13, 1969, a copy 
of which has been placed in the Board's files, Governor Robertson 
recommended an increase in reserve requirements on all classes of 
demand deposits of one-half of one percentage point, effective either 
in the reserve week ending April 10 or that ending April 17. The 
change would thus apply to deposits held in the weeks ending March 27 
or April 3. Attached was a table showing projected weekly reserve 
needs through April. 
(An updated table, dated March 18, also had 
been made available.) 
In a memorandum of March 18, a copy of which likewise has 
been placed in the Board's files, the Division of Research and Statis-
tics reviewed the range of possible policy actions in the current eco-
nomic and financial environment. 

952 
3/19/69 
-9-
At the request of the Chairman, the staff discussed recent and 
prospective money supply trends and, in response to questions, appraised 
the current and likely condition of financial markets, including those 
that might prevail in the event of a discount rate increase. 
Reverting to Governor Robertson's recommendation, Chairman 
Martin noted that a key question involved the timing of an increase 
in reserve requirements. He said that he was not disposed to advo-
cate such action at this particular juncture. 
Governor Brimmer called attention to the discussion in the 
staff memorandum with regard to raising the Regulation Q ceilings on 
large CD's, particularly in conjunction with a discount rate increase, 
a reserve requirement increase, or both. It was Governor Brimmer's 
view that the Q ceilings should not be raised and that the Board should 
look forward to banks, including the large ones, coming under more 
pressure. The problem, he said, was as much one of market expectations 
as actual flows, and a raising of the Q ceilings would be interpreted 
by the markets to mean that the Federal Reserve wanted to take some 
Pressure off the banks. The banks, he pointed out, could always borrow 
from the Federal Reserve for temporary purposes, whereas if the Q ceil-
ings were raised the banks would bid for funds they could keep. He 
Would not want to put them in that position. 
Mr. Partee observed that it was a question of degree. The 
staff would not suggest raising the ceilings to a point where banks 
could bid for funds in large amounts. However, if restraint went too 

952 
3/19/69 
-10-
much further, the banks would not be able to manage for themselves, 
even at the current rate of CD liquidation. Of course, if the Board 
took only a further modest action, it could wait and observe the mar-
ket response, but in his opinion plenty of liquidation was going on at 
present. 
Mr. Gramley said that, as everyone was aware, there was always 
a significant lag before the effect of monetary policy permeated the 
markets for goods and services. Therefore, one should not conclude 
from the growth of business loans that monetary policy was not working. 
A restrictive policy normally involved a degree of portfolio adjustment 
by the banks until they were forced to make significant changes in 
loan policies. The large banks were now in a position where they 
could not stand a continuing major drain on CD's; any significant 
further upward adjustment in interest rates would put them in an 
untenable position. Reactions would then take place that would not be 
in the best interest of a gradual approach toward a cooling off of 
inflationary pressures. There was also the problem of the municipal 
market to be considered; banks provided a large share of the funds 
that market, and if they pulled out the market would soon become 
disorganized. The same thing was true of the mortgage market. 
Governor Mitchell said the staff analysis of the problem was 
similar to his own. He did not believe the current rate of attrition 
in the reserve positions of the large banks could be continued indefi-
nitely. At the same time, inflationary expectations had not been 

9 5 2 
3/19/69 
-11-
curtailed as much as was needed. But there were sectors of the bank-
ing system that had not been under much pressure. That was the basis 
of the argument for raising reserve requirements in such a way as to 
bring those banks into awareness of the necessity for some restraint. 
So he would raise reserve requirements modestly at the larger banks and 
a little more emphatically at the country bank level. As to Regula-
tion Q ceilings, he would raise them on CD's of 180 days and over only. 
That would mean that the banks would have to commit themselves for a 
relatively long period. An increase in the discount rate would reduce 
the present "subsidy." 
He would take that step, with a statement to 
the effect that the action was intended to deal with the subsidy and 
was not intended to do more than bring the rate into better alignment 
with market rates. Finally, in order to avoid losing control of the 
situation he would consider setting up voluntary credit restraint 
committees of the kind that operated for a short period a number of 
years ago and see if that would make it easier for banks to turn 
customers away. In principle, he was against such a procedure. But 
if it would gain the support of the banking system in passing restraint 
along, 
he would favor it in this particular period. 
Governor Daane said he would accept the view that a matter of 
timing was involved. As a starting point, he would not want to raise 
tiHBCQ ceilings, for they were an integral 
part of the restraining 
Process. But he would accept the staff analysis that a move of the 

953 
3/19/69 
-12-
kind contemplated by the reserve requirement proposal would, if made 
at this moment, probably have to be accompanied by an increase in the 
Q ceilings. He found it a little harder to argue against some increase 
in the discount rate, although he did not really know what the effect 
would be over the next few weeks. On balance, he would be inclined to 
sit still a while longer, although perhaps for not more than about two 
weeks or so, and watch the effects of current monetary policy. He 
took a pessimistic view of the bond markets, and from that standpoint 
felt that a strong action on the part of the Federal Reserve at this 
time might be counterproductive. He would keep the discount rate 
under close scrutiny. 
Governor Maisel said he would go back to the basic concept of 
the flows. Most monetary aggregates had not been increasing for 4-1/2 
months, and it was projected that there would be no increase for 
another month. While the banking system could stand that pressure for 
a
 while, it could not be continued indefinitely. Therefore, he would 
n
°t like to see any increase in reserve requirements. At the same 
time, a change in Regulation Q ceilings, even if only marginal, would 
amount to moving in the wrong direction in terms of expectations and 
would also work some damage in terms of losing control of the situa-
tion. He would be willing to increase the discount rate to 5-3/4 per 
cent purely on technical grounds. To go higher might well force a 
change in the Q ceilings, if not immediately then within a month or so. 

3/19/69 
-13-
Governor Brimmer said he would not want to do anything just 
now. He believed this was a time to stand by and let the market 
tighten against the current policy stance until after the tax date. 
If banks ended up by selling securities in the market at declining 
prices, enough securities could be bought through the Trading Desk to 
prevent disorderliness, and reserves could be absorbed through a change 
in reserve requirements to assure that the banking system did not wind 
up with another increment in the availability of reserves. As to 
municipals, the Desk could be asked to work out a plan whereby they 
could be acquired on a repurchase basis if necessary, again to avoid 
a disorderly market and not to give banks additional reserves to 
avoid adjustment on the asset side. He would not want to raise Regu-
lation Q ceilings, for that would be a boost to expectations in exactly 
the wrong direction. If, after the tax and dividend period, there was 
still a need for some additional adjustment, he would be willing to 
consider a change in reserve requirements, tailoring it in whatever 
W a
y seemed appropriate. It might also be necessary to change the 
discount rate, with the amount depending on the state of the markets. 
As he had said, however, for the time being he would do nothing. 
Governor Sherrill said he did not believe the Federal Reserve 
should tighten further at this stage. In his view, there was now as 
much restraint as needed. If there was a risk, it was probably one of 
too much restraint rather than too little. Accordingly, he would not 

3/19/69 
-14-
raise reserve requirements at this stage. On the discount rate, he 
would be willing to make a nominal move, that is, 1/4 of a percentage 
point, but not to shake the market more than necessary. He would hold 
the Regulation Q rates, even with the current run-off, and run the 
risk of a dumping of bonds by the large banks. Thus far they had not, 
which appeared to indicate that some changes in loan policies were 
being made. Also, the portfolios showed such deep discounts that a 
dumping of bonds would be an expensive way to try to avoid the con-
sequences of monetary policy. It was difficult to predict the net 
effect of a change in the ceiling rates. However, if it became neces-
sary to act on Regulation Q, he would want to be in a position to 
counter that action by a change in reserve requirements. 
Basically, 
though, he thought the System was in about the right posture at present. 
If anything was done, he would increase the discount rate by 1/4 point. 
He noted that, according to comments during recent visits by banker 
groups, outlying banks were now beginning to feel the effects of the 
restrictive monetary policy, whereas a month ago they evidently were 
n
°t. They were now beginning to get referrals of national customers. 
Mr. Solomon (Adviser) noted that if the Board were to decide 
t o
 do something fairly overt which put stronger pressure on the large 
banks and they turned to the Euro-dollar market in a massive way, the 
Board probably would have to do something fairly soon to restrain the 
inflow from that market. He was impressed by the degree of turnaround 

3/19/69 
-15-
the System had achieved, as shown in the tables the Board members had 
before them. There had been a sharp reduction in the rate of growth 
of the important aggregates, including bank reserves. As he saw it, 
the main problem was to hold the degree of restraint that had been 
achieved. 
Mr. Holland said his views were about the same as those of Mr. 
Solomon. He sensed that among nonbank market participants some money 
was being held off the market in temporary liquidity havens, waiting 
for the bond market to peak. There were reports of potential buying 
strength to add some resilience to the market, an important difference 
from 1966. And that same liquidity was tending to soften some of the 
short instruments such as bills. 
Mr. Holland noted that at the moment three Federal Reserve 
Banks had established discount rates of 6 per cent and one Bank had 
established 5-3/4 per cent, subject to review and determination by the 
Board. 
Governor Daane said he could not see the net gain in a change 
to 5-3/4 per cent, except to avoid the question of the Regulation Q 
ceilings. 
Mr. Partee replied that the one net gain, in terms of public 
relations, would be to resolve the question for a while from the stand-
Point of the press and the market. Mr. Axilrod said he found it dif-
ficult to predict the market reaction to such an action. It would 

953 
3/19/69 
-16-
involve a little risk in terms of rates if the Board was not prepared 
to move on other policy instruments. The game, he felt, was not worth 
the candle; the action might only introduce confusion. 
Mr. Molony noted that a failure to act following the prime 
rate increase would lead to a feeling that the System was not going 
to move at all. Mr. Holland suggested that if the increase was only 
1/4 point there might be a decline in short rates in the wake of the 
announcement, based on an interpretation that this was all the Federal 
Reserve was going to do. Mr. Axilrod observed that if the Board took 
no action and wanted to keep a sense of tightness in the market it 
would be important that the Federal funds market stay about as tight 
a s
 in the past few days. If it eased, there might be the kind of 
reverse reaction the System would not want, resulting from a view that 
the System was backing away from its current policy stance. 
Bank advertising regulations. Governor Mitchell advised that 
discussion within the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation con-
cerning regulation of bank advertising for deposits had focused on the 
term for which guaranteed rates should be permitted. 
Mr. Holland said it was the staff view that there was no good 
economic reason for limiting maturities. Mr. Hackley agreed, but 
added that a restriction specified by regulation might prompt banks 
t o
 issue certificates up to the limit specified. He recalled that a 
couple of years ago the Board had considered amending Regulation Q to 
limit the issuance of certificates to one year. 

3/19/69 
-17-
Governor Maisel said that he would be happy with a 10-year 
maturity limit, but would accept a 5-year limit. Governor Brimmer 
said he would prefer 5, but would accept 10 if necessary. Governor 
Sherrill indicated that he would prefer no limit, but might be willing 
to compromise to some extent. 
Governor Robertson favored no limit, but said he would require 
advertising only a rate of interest for one year. Governor Daane said 
he 
would not object to that, although he would accept a 5 or 10-year 
maturity limit. 
Mr. Hackley asked whether a restriction against advertising 
what banks actually were allowed to offer could be rationalized, and 
Governor Maisel suggested that justification could be made on the 
ground that the advertising was confusing--a truth-in-advertising 
concept was involved. Few depositors would hold certificates long 
enough to receive the full guaranteed rate. 
Foreign travel. The Board authorized travel by Ralph C. Wood, 
Advi 
ser in the Division of International Finance, to London, England, 
to participate in bilateral discussions with U.K. officials on March 25-
26, 1969, concerning certain foreign exchange questions, with the under-
standing that per diem in lieu of expenses at rates provided by the 
Standardized Government Travel Regulations would be allowed. The 
Board also authorized staff participation in further bilateral discus-
sions of the same subject, with the British or others, that might 
develop and travel required in connection therewith. 

3/19/69 
-18-
The Chairman then called an executive session, Mr. Holland 
remaining, after which the meeting adjourned. 
v. 
i 
Secretary 
x 

9 t > 0 
Item No. 1 
3/19/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CITIZENS TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK 
for approval of acquisition of assets of 
The West Michigan Savings Bank 
ORDER DENYING ACQUISITION OF BANK'S ASSETS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C, 1828(c)), an application by Citizens 
Trust and Savings Bank, South Haven, Michigan, a State member bank 
°f the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of its 
acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities of The 
West Michigan Savings Bank, Bangor, Michigan, and, as an incident 
thereto, Citizens Trust and Savings Bank has applied, under section 9 
°f the Federal Reserve Act, for the Board's prior approval of the 
e
stablishment by that bank of a branch at the location of the main 
°ffice of The West Michigan Savings Bank. Notice of the proposed 
acc
luisition of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities, in form 
approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 

- 2 -
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
of the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by 
the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors 
Involved in the proposed transaction, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said applications be and hereby 
are denied. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 19th day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, and 
Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Daane. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
; (SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
3/19/69 
APPLICATION BY CITIZENS TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK FOR 
APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF 
THE WEST MICHIGAN SAVINGS BANK 
STATEMENT 
Citizens Trust and Savings Bank, South Haven, Michigan 
("Citizens Bank"), with total deposits of $32.6 million, has applied, 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's 
Prior approval of its acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit 
liabilities of The West Michigan Savings Bank, Bangor, Michigan 
("Bangor Bank"), which has total deposits of $7.5 million.-^ As an 
incident to the transaction, the sole office of Bangor Bank would 
b e
come a branch of Citizens Bank, increasing the number of its offices 
t o
 five. 
Competition* - Citizens Bank operates its head office in 
s
°uth Haven (population about 6,150); the bank operates branches in 
F e n n v i l i e and Saugatuck, which are, respectively 18 miles northeast 
a r i d
 20 miles north, of South Haven, and a branch at Bloomingdale, 
^hich is 19 miles east of South Haven. Bangor Bank's sole office is 
l n B a n
8 o r (population about 2»100), 
miles southeast of Citizens 
Bank
1
n 
s
 main office and 13 miles southwest of its Bloomingdale branch; 
F a t of Juno 29, 1968. 

- 2 -
there are no banking offices in the intervening area. Industrial 
Plants in Bangor and South Haven employ, respectively about 1000 and 
3000 persons, A large portion of the persons employed in these plants 
reside in outlying areas, with many working in Bangor who reside in 
the rural sections of Citizens Bank's service area and many working in 
South Haven who reside in the rural sections of the area served by 
Bangor Bank. In addition, many residents of the Bangor area shop in 
South Haven, and Citizens Bank is a convenient alternative source of 
banking services for them. 
Bangor Bank derives about 10 per cent of its deposits and 
about 10 per cent of its loans from the area served by Citizens Bank. 
Ci
-tizens Bank obtains deposits from the service area of Bangor Bank 
tl
*at equal over 40 per cent of the latter
f
s deposits. The loans Citizens 
B a
n k obtains from the service area of Bangor Bank equal over 25 per cent 
o f
 Bangor Bank's loans. 
There are only two other banking offices in the combined 
S e
r v i c e area of Bangor Bank and the main office and Bloomingdale branch 
o f
 Citizens Bank. The First National Bank and Trust Co. of Kalamazoo 
^otal deposits $196 million) operates a branch at Gobies, about five 
m U e s 
e a s t
 of Bloomingdale; the Van Buren State Bank, Hartford (total 
e
Posits $8.5 million), operates a branch at Covert, about eight miles 
°
ut
h of South Haven and nine miles west of Bangor. Citizens Bank and 
a n
gor Bank presently hold 67 per cent and 21 per cent, respectively, 
t h e
 deposits held by the five banking offices in this combined area. 

964 
- 3 -
The next closest banking offices to Bangor Bank are five 
that lie to the south of this combined area: 
the Lawrence branch 
(9 miles southeast of Bangor) of The American National Bank and Trust 
Company of Michigan (total deposits $138 million); the head office 
of Van Buren State Bank at Hartford (10 miles southwest of Bangor); 
the head office of The First National Bank of Watervliet (16 miles 
southwest of Bangor); The State Bank of Coloma (18 miles southwest of 
Bangor); and the Paw Paw branch (18 miles southeast of Bangor) of 
She First National Bank and Trust Company of Kalamazoo. If these five 
offices are regarded as within the market served by Bangor Bank and the 
main office and Bloomingdale branch of Citizens Bank, then Citizens Bank, 
following the acquisition of Bangor Bank, would hold about 40 per cent 
°f area deposits. 
The acquisition of Bangor Bank by Citizens Bank would 
eliminate existing and potential competition between them and enhance 
the dominant position of Citizens Bank in an area where banking 
resources are already rather highly concentrated, whether the appro-
priate market be regarded as the five-bank-office or the ten-bank-office 
a r e
a , described above. The provision of Michigan law that prohibits 
the establishment of de novo branches in a town in which there is 
already a banking office would further enhance Citizens Bank's dominant 
Position. 
The proposed transaction would have a significantly adverse 
e
ffeet on competition. 

-4-
9(>5 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to each of the banks are reasonably satis-
factory, as they would be with respect to the resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - It is contended 
that the replacement of Bangor Bank by an office of Citizens Bank would 
benefit the banking convenience and needs of the area presently served 
by Bangor Bank 0 
Citizens Bank could offer more and better services 
than Bangor Bank now provides, but the interests of the Bangor community 
Would be better served in the long run if such improvement were forth-
coming from a banking organization with a less dominant position in the 
a r e
a . There is no basis for concluding that there are no feasible 
raeans
 
for improving the banking services available in the Bangor 
community other than the amalgamation of Bangor Bank with a major 
• 
competitor. See United States v . Third National Bank in Nashville, 
3 9 0
 U.S. 171 (1968). 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
s i
-gnifi C a n t].y adverse effect of the proposed acquisition on competition 
w
°uld not be clearly outweighed in the public interest by potential 
benefits for banking convenience and needs. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
b e
 denied. 
March 19,1969. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF J . DEWEY DAANE 
On the basis of* the record before the Board I would approve 
this merger. I cannot agtfee that consummation of this proposal 
would have any significantly adverse effect on existing competition 
or in any real sense preclude meaningful potential competition. Little 
competition now exists between the two institutions. Considering 
the number and size of banks headquartered outside, but competing 
within, the Bangor Bank's service area, and the lack of aggressiveness 
on the part of the Bangor Bank, I am unable to foresee any significant 
future competition arising between the two banks assuming the Bangor 
Bank continues its present mode and scope of operation. 
Strongly supporting approval of the application, I believe, 
is the evidence of immediate benefits that will accrue to the 
hanking public in the Bangor area from the likely immediate infustion 
in the Bangor Bank of aggressive operational policies and practices, 
in particular, the institution of a more liberal lending policy 
and more competitive rates of interest on time and savings deposits 
would make Bangor Bank a far more viable competitor. 
9G6 
Item No. 3 
3/19/69 

I 
3 6 7 
- 2 -
2 
• o> 
J 
In my judgment, absent approval of this proposal, there is 
no reasonable alternative for securing the aforementioned benefits. 
Any conclusion that alternative merger or acquisition proposals are 
available to the Bangor Bank is purely conjectural and non-supportive 
of a denial action. 
March 19, 1969. 
1 
" , 
• - 
i L 
• : 
• . . 5,! , w.-i ; I 
• 
' 
: 1 , - X V '
 
:
 
i,-" - '' 
' 
! 
| 
• ... n 
. -v, . ic.vC Xi-.vt: 
:.,/ 
' 
— 
or a..,, 
|| 
f l 
/ •• 
• 
A 
n 
> 
, V 
: 
„ 
> 

V 
ui • 
h ' 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No 
3/19/69 
as 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
The Honorable Abraham A. Ribicoff, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Executive Reorganization, 
Committee on Government Operations, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
March 20, 1969 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your request of February 19, 1969, 
for a report from the Board on the bill, S. 860, to establish a 
Department of Consumer Affairs. 
The new department would be responsible for protecting 
and representing the interests of consumers, and there would be 
transferred to the new department functions relative to consumers 
now exercised by certain existing departments or agencies. 
Among the functions that would be transferred by the 
bill to the new department are those that were assigned to this 
Board last year to prescribe regulations to implement the T^ruth 
in Lending Act (Public Law 90-321). The responsibility for 
administrative enforcement of that Act, which was assigned to 
nine various departments and agencies, would also be transferred 
to the new department by the bill. 
During recent years there has been a marked increase 
in legislative measures designed principally for the protection 
of consumers. This trend seems likely to continue. Some current 
legislative proposals would add to the Truth in Lending Act new 
regulatory responsibility in the consumer protection field that 
would be assigned to this Board. Examples of such proposals are 
S. 721 and S. 823, relating to credit cards and credit reporting 
agencies. In reporting to the Senate Committee on Banking and 
Currency on these two bills, the Board stressed that the assign-
ment of additional duties to it in regard to the protection of 
consumers is not operationally or functionally related to the 
performance of our primary responsibilities in the field of 
monetary policy. 

9 6 9 
The Honorable Abraham A. Ribicoff 
-2-
The Board's reports on the two bills suggested that 
administrative responsibility for such legislation should be vested 
in an agency whose responsibilities traditionally have required 
that it be more intimately involved with consumer matters, or that 
a new Federal department or agency be established to which admin-
istrative responsibility for consumer protection measures would be 
transferred and in which responsibility for future consumer measures 
would be vested. The Board stated also that it welcomed the action 
of your Subcommittee in holding hearings on S. 860. 
The Board urges favorable action by your Subcommittee on 
S. 860 and would support its enactment. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

Mt 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• 
F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
Item No 
3/19/69 
RtS^ 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 24, 1969 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your request of January 31, 1969, for 
a report from the Board on the bill, S. 721, "To safeguard the con-
sumer by requiring greater standards of care in the issuance of 
unsolicited credit cards and by limiting the liability of consumers 
for the unauthorized use of credit cards, and for other purposes." 
The Board would be responsible under the bill for issuing 
regulations to implement its provisions, which would constitute 
amendments to the Truth in Lending Act (Public Law 90-321). 
One provision of the bill would require the Board to 
prescribe regulations governing the conditions under which unsolic-
ited credit cards might properly be issued, either by banks or by 
nonbank issuers. More particularly, such regulations would be 
required to prescribe minimum standards for card issuers in check-
ing the credit worthiness of prospective cardholders in order 
(a) to protect them from becoming overextended, and (b) when the 
issuer is a bank, to safeguard its safety and soundness. 
The other provision of the bill would place a maximum 
limit of $50 on the liability of any person to whom a credit card 
had been issued for any unauthorized use of the card. Such person, 
however, would have no liability at all to the issuer for any such 
use of the card (not even up to the $50 maximum) unless (a) the 
cardholder had "accepted" the card by requesting, signing, or using 
the card; (b) the card issuer had notified the holder of his poten-
tial liability under the card; (c) the issuer had provided a means 
of identifying the user of the card as a person authorized to use 
it; (d) the unauthorized use occurred before the holder had notified 
the issuer of the loss or theft of the card; and (e) the issuer, 
upon receipt of such notice, had taken steps to guard against the 
unauthorized use of the card. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
The bill defines "credit card" broadly to mean "any card, 
plate, coupon book or other credit device existing for the purpose 
of obtaining any money, property, labor, or service on credit." 
As the bill's provisions would become parts of the Truth 
in Lending Act, some of the provisions of that Act would also apply 
to those of the bill, including the sections of the Act requiring 
the Board to prescribe regulations to carry out its provisions and 
authorizing the Board to make exceptions and classifications; dis-
tributing responsibility for administrative enforcement among nine 
Federal departments and agencies; and providing criminal penalties 
for willful violations. 
Section 2 of the bill deals with the prescription of 
standards for the issuance of unsolicited credit cards. When he 
testified before your Committee's Subcommittee on Financial 
Insti tutions on October 9, 1968, at its Hearings on credit cards, 
Governor Brimmer referred to the Board's outstanding instructions 
to its examiners. He noted, particularly, the Board's instruction 
that examiners make sure that banks realized the importance of 
developing and carefully screening mailing lists for credit cards 
from their own records and, in so doing, checking the credit 
worthiness of intended card recipients. He also testified that he 
did not think legislation was needed requiring banks to follow 
minimum standards relative to the credit worthiness of prospective 
recipients of unsolicited credit cards. Under the criteria that 
banks are following for issuing credit cards, bank credit card 
operations are generally sound from the point of view of the con-
sumer as well as the bank. Banks are taking care to see that the 
people who receive their credit cards are able to meet obligations 
within the established limits. 
The Board favors enactment of legislation along the lines 
of S, 721 limiting the liability of issuees of credit cards for any 
unauthorized use of their cards. In this connection, too, the 
Board agrees with the testimony of Governor Brimmer last October. 
While a few States have enacted legislation in this area, it is 
not uniform. This suggests that Federal legislation might be 
preferable in view particularly of the regional and national scope 
of some credit card operations. The Board believes, however, that 
such legislation should be drafted so as not to require implementa-
tion by regulations. In effect, such legislation would constitute 
a defense for the person to whom a credit card has been issued in 
any action by the issuer to enforce liability under the card. This 
apparently is true with respect to the Massachusetts statute upon 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-3-
which, according to Senator Proxmire, this aspect of S.721 is 
patterned. As the subject, in the Board's judgment, is one that 
lends itself to legislative specifications, implementing regulations 
would not be needed. 
The Board wishes again to stress that the assignment of 
additional duties to it in regard to the protection of consumers is 
not operationally or functionally related to the performance of our 
primary responsibilities in the field of monetary policy. The 
Board has accepted responsibility for prescribing the Truth in Lending 
regulations. However, the legislative history of the Truth in Lending 
Act clearly established that the Board's role should be a limited one, 
and that its acceptance of responsibility for developing regulations 
under that Act should not be taken as a precedent for assigning to 
the Board wide-ranging duties in the general area of consumer protection. 
In view of the recent increase in legislative measures 
designed principally for the protection of consumers and the likely 
continuance of this trend, the Board suggests that the administrative 
responsibility for such legislation be vested in an agency whose 
responsibilities traditionally have required that it be more intimately 
involved with consumer matters, or that a new Federal department or 
agency be established to which administrative responsibility for con-
sumer protection measures would be transferred and in which responsi-
bility for future consumer measures would be vested. In this 
connection, the Board welcomes the hearings of the Subcommittee of 
the Committee on Government Operations on the bill, S. 860, to 
establish a Department of Consumer Affairs. Under that bill, functions 
relative to consumer matters that have been vested in other agencies, 
including the administrative responsibilities under the Truth in 
Lending Act, would be transferred to the new department. 
While,as noted above, legislation may be desirable governing 
the liability of consumers for unauthorized use of their credit cards, 
the Board feels that the form in which the provision on that subject 
appears in S. 721 is inappropriate. In view of this and the foregoing 
comments of the Board relative to the bill, the Board would recommend 
against its enactment. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
