Board 
MINUTES 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 5, 19 72 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
*;equired t o be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
ederal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
Minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston. 

2373 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 5, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
a t 4:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Discount rate. The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
S o ston had acted today to establish, subject to review and determination 
the Board of Governors, a rate of 4-3/4 per cent (an increase from 
4-1/9 
' c per cent) on discounts for and advances to member banks under 
Sections 13 anci i3a Qf the Federal Reserve Act; they had also acted to 
establish appropriately corresponding subsidiary rates on advances under 
Sections of the Act. 
The reasoning underlying the action of the Boston Bank directors 
h a d not been communicated, but it was noted that in a telegram dated 
A u g U s t 22, 1972, the directors had expressed the view that an upward 
justment in the discount rate might soon be desirable in light of the 
lricrease they anticipated in short-term market interest rates. 

2374 
9/5/72 
-2-
On September 1, 1972, the Board had disapproved a discount 
rate increase proposed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and 
during today's discussion there was no disposition among the Board members 
to approve the pending increase for the Boston Bank. However, Governor 
Robertson indicated that he would prefer to delay a decision until later 
in the week when more information about the growth of the monetary aggre-
gates would be available, and he also thought it likely that money market 
rates would be rising and would make an increase in the discount rate 
desirable in the relatively near future. 
Governor Brimmer said that, although he had preferred to defer 
action at the September 1 meeting and had voted against disapproving 
the then pending increase, he would now favor disapproval of the Boston 
Bank's proposal in view of the easier tone that had developed in the 
money market. However, he shared Governor Robertson's view regarding 
the outlook for short-term interest rates, and he would not want to delay 
an increase in the discount rate when it became indicated by market 
rates, partly because he would feel uncomfortable if a large spread 
were to emerge between the discount rate and market rates at a time 
when member bank borrowings were sizable. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that the discount rate did 
not presently seem to be much out of line with market rates. He also 
observed that at its mid-August meeting the Federal Open Market Committee 
had indicated support for resisting any further upward adjustment in the 
discount rate, and individual members had further indicated that there 

2
* } l^Ry^W 
u / «> 
9/5/72 
-3-
could be a period during which the discount rate and other short-term 
market rates might be out of alignment. The Chairman was of opinion 
that the discount rate should not be adjusted upward unless the Board 
believed that monetary policy should move in a firming direction. 
After further discussion the Board unanimously disapproved the 
proposed discount rate increase, with the understanding that a letter 
similar to that sent to the Kansas City Bank setting forth the reasons 
for the Board's decision would also be sent to the Boston Bank. A copy of 
the letter subsequently sent to the Boston Bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
Other discount rates. The Board unanimously approved action 
taken by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on September 5, 1972, 
establishing without change the rates on discounts and advances in its 
existing schedule, with the understanding that appropriate advice would 
be sent to that Bank. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

237 
H D A R D • F 
G D V E R N • R S 
DP the 
I t e m N o- 
1 
(oi;Lu-!V{,'. 
o/c/79 
I
f
3
F
E
D
E
R
A
L 
R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
; ' < • 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 2055! 
i l l ® 
o 
ADDSFSt! orFICIAl. CDRWEIiPDUDEtlU' 
rs^w-ip^' 
TD ™r o u a k u 
. i ,V • - - 
• 
September 5, IS72 
Mr. Frank K Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
B o st on, Mass ac husetts 
02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board of Governors took action today to disapprove 
the pending increase in your Bank's discount rate from 4-1/2 to 
4-3/4 per cent which your directors voted to establish on 
September 5. 
In reaching its decision the Board reviewed a 
number of considerations and concluded that an increase in the 
discount rate would not be desirable under prevailing circumstances. 
The Board took particular note of the currently sensitive situation 
in money aid bond markets and decided that there was a considerable 
risk in the present market atmosphere that an increase in the 
discount rate would cause interest rates to ratchet up further. 
Additionally, Board members expressed uncertainty with regard 
to the extent to which recent increases in interest rates might 
prove to be transitory. 
May 1 add that the Board, while reaching a judgment that 
differs from that of your Bank's directors, appreciates having the 
benefit of their views and wishes to thank them for the expression 
of their considered judgment in fulfilling their statutory 
responsibility. 
Sincerely yours, 
/ / 
-v 
, 
• / 
/ 
7 Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
