7R 609 
Rev. 5-67) 
Minutes for 
July 7, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

2 7 2 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, July 7, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Axilrod, Gramley, Eckert, Bernard, 
Ettin, Fry, Keir, and Kelty of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Wood, Baker, Gekker, 
Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard reported on conditions in the 
Government securities market, with special emphasis on the Treasury 
bond market, Mr. Eckert reviewed developments relating to rates on time 
and savings deposits and commented on projections contained in a dis-
tributed table affording perspective on bank reserve utilization, and 
Mr. Ruckdeschel discussed foreign exchange market activity, including 
sterling developments and Euro-dollar rates. Copies of the several 

2727 
7/7/67 
-2-
tables and charts distributed in connection with today's review have 
been placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions other than Mr. Koch withdrew from the meeting, as 
did Messrs. Holland and Morgan, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Messrs. O'Connell and Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of Data Processing 
Messrs. Cloth, Plotkin, Porter, and Sanders of the Legal 
Division 
Mr. Fisher of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Millea and Waller of the Office of the Controller 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on July 5, 1967, and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, 
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on July 6, 1967, of the rates on 
discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to 
those Banks. 
Assessment for Board expenses. There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Office of the Controller dated July 6, 1967, recom-
mending that an assessment of .00441 per cent of the total paid-in 
capital and surplus of the Federal Reserve Banks as of June 30, 1967, 
be levied upon the Banks to meet the estimated expenses of the Board 
for the second half of 1967. Such an assessment would produce $5,093,600. 

Hi 
7/7/67 
-3-
In response to a question by Governor Brimmer as to the reason 
for the estimated underexpenditure of $235,000 in the budget of the 
Division of Data Processing, Mr. Langham indicated that it had taken 
longer than anticipated (six months) for the various Divisions concerned 
to establish a basic ordering agreement in connection with contractual 
analytical and programming services. Individual contracts were now in 
the process of being let, and the work was going forward. The need for 
the services had not diminished. Supervisory staff, however, was not 
sufficient to integrate immediately all contractual services into the 
network already established. 
Governor Brimmer expressed reservations about continuing to 
provide for such a large expenditure when it did not appear that the 
funds would be used in the near future. It seemed to him that the 
preferable course would be for the Division to come back to the Board 
when the amount was actually needed. He said that he would pursue this 
point with Governor Mitchell upon his return. 
Following further discussion, the recommended assessment was 
approved unanimously. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

7/7/67 
-4-
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank International Corpo-
ration, New York, New York, approving an amend-
ment to its articles of association. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget regarding 
H.R. 9884, a bill "To authorize Federal Housing 
Administration insurance on loans made for the 
purpose of purchasing fee simple titles from 
lessors, and to allow savings and loan associa-
tions to purchase such Federal Housing Adminis-
tration insured loans." 
Messrs. Fauver, Langham, Millea, and Waller then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Proposed acquisition by Union Bank. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated July 5, 1967, 
regarding the proposed acquisition of Western Mortgage Corporation, 
Los Angeles, California, by Union Bank, also of Los Angeles. In 
essence, the proposal detailed in the memorandum was that Union Bank 
would purchase for cash all outstanding shares of stock of Western 
Mortgage Corporation, but upon acquisition of such stock Western Mort-
gage Corporation would be dissolved and its assets distributed to Union 
Bank. Eight offices presently maintained by Western Mortgage Corporation 
would be continued in operation by Union Bank. 
In connection with the proposed acquisition questions had arisen 
as to (1) the time limit for amortization of the premium to be paid by 
Union Bank, which it intended to carry on its books as an asset, (2) 
whether section 5136 of the Revised Statutes, which forbids the purchase 
Item No. 
1 
2 

m
i 
7/7/67 
-5-
by a member bank for its own account of any shares of stock of any 
corporation, would prohibit the proposed acquisition, (3) whether the 
Board would have to grant prior approval to acquisition by Union Bank 
of the large block of mortgage servicing business, and (4) whether the 
eight offices of Western Mortgage Corporation to be acquired by Union 
Bank would constitute branches and consequently require prior Board 
approval. 
As noted in the memorandum, three of the questions were being 
presented for consideration at this time. The State Banking Department 
of California suggested that the premium be amortized over a 12-year 
period, whereas the San Francisco Reserve Bank recommended a 10-year 
period in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles, in 
which recommendation the Division of Examinations concurred. The staff 
recommended that the Board interpose no objection to the stock acquisi-
tion, expressing the view that the prohibitions of section 5136 of the 
Revised Statutes were intended to prevent the acquisition and retention 
of corporate stock rather than the momentary acquisition of stock where 
the immediate liquidation of the company would be carried out. In the 
light of prior Board decisions relating to acquisition of large blocks 
of mortgage servicing businesses, the Division of Examinations con-
cluded that the pertinent condition of System membership applicable to 
Union Bank would not require Board approval of the proposed acquisition. 

O ^ ' O A 
7/7/67 
-6-
The fourth question, however, namely, whether the operation of 
offices for the limited purpose of making and servicing mortgages would 
constitute the operation of branches, was currently under review in the 
Legal Division in another connection. The Division of Examinations 
recommended that, because Union Bank was urging that it be given some 
indication of the Board's views on the acquisition, it be advised favor-
ably at this time on all but the branch question, with the understanding 
that if at a future date it was determined that such limited function 
offices constituted branches, Board approval would then be given. 
Attached to the distributed memorandum was a proposed letter 
that would reflect these views. The letter would also urge that the 
proposed sale by Union Bank of $15 million in capital debentures be 
completed in the near future. 
(The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
had recommended that approval of the proposed acquisition be made con-
tingent upon the immediate sale of the debentures in view of the less 
than satisfactory asset condition and capital position of Union Bank.) 
At today's meeting comments were made regarding several aspects 
of the situation presented, but the tenor of the discussion indicated a 
preference on the part of the members of the Board to defer a reply 
until definite answers could be given on all questions, including the 
status of the eight offices of Western Mortgage Company to be acquired. 
Accordingly it was understood that the matter would be held in 
abeyance for approximately a week during which time the Legal Division 

27X2 
7/7/67 
-7-
would expedite its analysis looking toward determination of the question 
whether a limited function office of the type described constituted a 
branch. 
Discussion then turned to certain changes that might be made 
in the proposed letter regardless of the outcome of the question under 
study by the Legal Division. Governor Brimmer indicated that he was in 
agreement with the recommendation of the Reserve Bank that the Board's 
approval should be contingent upon the immediate sale by Union Bank of 
$15 million in capital debentures. Governor Robertson concurred in 
this view and offered editorial changes that would accomplish this end. 
In view of the asset condition and capital position of Union Bank as 
reported by the Reserve Bank, Governor Robertson also supported the 
10-year limitation on amortization of the premium paid by Union Bank 
as opposed to the 12-year limitation that was apparently acceptable to 
the State supervisory authorities. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: In accordance with 
earlier discussions with members of the 
Board, Governor Robertson today approved, 
effective July 16, 1967, the transfer of 
the messengers in the Board Members' Offices 
to the Division of Administrative Services, 
under the Duplicating, Mail, Messenger, and 
Supply Section, with Robert I. Stewart to 
be designated as Assistant Head Messenger in 
charge of the Board Members' group, it being 
understood that he in turn would report to 
the Head Messenger. It was also understood 
that sick and annual leave, staff coordination, 
and other administrative matters required in 
relation to performance and attendance would 
be handled in accordance with the present 
practices of the regular messenger force. 

7/7/67 
-8-
Governor Robertson also approved today 
on behalf of the Board the recommenda-
tion in a memorandum from the Division 
of Examinations dated July 7, 1967, that 
Robert G. Black, President of Hallmark 
Homes, Arlington, Virginia, be appointed 
as a consultant, with compensation at the 
rate of $75 per day, in connection with 
the preparation and delivery of lectures 
to the schools for examiners and discount 
officers. 
On July 7, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
approving the designation of William 0. Hargens 
and Kenneth H. Kulesza as special assistant 
examiners. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, approving an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in the Maritime Plaza, 
Golden Gateway Center, San Francisco. 
Item No, 

OfCOl^-
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/7/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO TH E BOARD 
July 7, 1967. 
Wells Fargo Bank International Corporation, 
40 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to a letter from counsel dated June 9, 
1967, enclosing the written consent under date of June 8, 1967, of 
the sole stockholder of your Corporation, Wells Fargo Bank, San 
Francisco, California, consenting to the amendment of the Articles 
of Association of your Corporation to increase the capital stock to 
$13,500,000, consisting of 135,000 shares of the par value of $100 
each. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment to Article 
SEVENTH. Please advise the Board when the capital increase has been 
effected. 
It is noted that your present capital structure will be 
increased by a sale of 42,000 additional shares to Wells Fargo Bank 
for $4,500,000, of which $300,000 will be credited to capital surplus. 
Very truly your;.-, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
• h' 

Of GOV^'•. 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
7/7/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 7, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to a legislative referral memorandum 
of June 19, 1967, requesting the Board's views on H.R. 9884, a bill 
"To authorize Federal Housing Administration insurance on loans 
made for the purpose of purchasing fee simple titles from lessors, 
and to allow savings and loan associations to purchase such Federal 
Housing Administration insured loans." 
The Board understands that, although the first section of 
this bill is in general terms, it is designed principally to make 
FHA insurance available in connection with the purchase by an owner 
of a leasehold interest in a one-to-four family residence in Hawaii 
of the remaining interest in the property on which such residence is 
located. By doing so, it is hoped that the costs of such purchases 
may be reduced. The Board favors this objective. 
The other section of the bill would authorize Federal 
savings and loan associations to invest without limitation in loans 
insured under the first section. Some such authorization appears 
necessary in order for those associations to invest in such loans, 
because it appears that they will typically involve second mortgages 
and such associations are generally limited to the purchase of first 
lien loans. 
There seems to be no need for corresponding amendments 
to the Federal laws that govern the activities of member banks. A 
national bank would be limited by the usual 10 per cent of capital 
and surplus restriction on loans to one person (R.S. 5200; 12 U.S.C. 84), 

/•» A * » "%f> 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
but that would not be an impediment to the purposes of the bill. 
There is no Federal limitation on the amount of a State member bank*s 
investments in the loans that would be insured under the first section. 
Accordingly, the Board is aware of no objection to enactment 
of H.R. 9884 and has no suggestions for amendments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2 
W 
OfGO^ 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
7/7/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 7, 1967 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of July 3, 1967, we are deleting the name of Mr. William G. Hargens 
from the list of Assistant Examiners for the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston. 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, has 
approved the appointments of Mr. William G. Hargens and Mr. Kenneth 
H. Kulesza as Special Assistant Examiners for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston to assist an examination of the following banks. 
The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut 
Depositors Trust Company, Augusta, Maine 
The Merrill Trust Company, Bangor, Maine 
State Street Bank and Trust Company, Boston, Massachusetts 
Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company, Providence, Rhode Island 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Federal Reserve Sank o f ^ a n Francisco 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
01120 
Item No 
July 73 1967 
7/7/67 
Mr. Hal Handon, 
Senior Executive Vice .President, 
United California 3ank, 
COO S »uth Spring Street, 
lioa Angeles , California. 90054. 
Dear Mr. He rid on: 
/ 
< 
\ 
\ 
On behalf of the Board \)i GoveplSrs of the 
Federal Reserve Syst^ja^jicting unrNar jkflegated authority, 
this Bank has apmr^ved cnaxtencioiv^to January 28, 1968, 
of the time within which youV banlc may establish a branch 
office in the I-^irilime PlasaGolden Gateway Center 
San Francisco, California. 
This extension is granted in connection with 
/the request contaih^d ii^ydur letter dated July 6, 1S67. 
\ 
y 
Very truly yours, 
Ts'i'gned) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President 
