MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 17, 1969 

182 
» /; i i 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
• - • • • 
.•' 
System on Friday, January 17, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director. Division of International 
Finance-^' 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics— 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith have 
been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions except Mr. Partee of 
the Division of Research and Statistics and Messrs. Solomon and Norwood 
of the Division of International Finance then withdrew from the meeting 
and the following entered: 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
y 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1 ^ 3 
1/17/69 
-2-
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Doyle and Lynch of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy and Lawrence of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton and Goodfellow, and Miss Greene 
of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Wood of the Division of Personnel Administration 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on January 16, 
1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking matter. First National City Bank, New York, 
New York, had applied for permission to acquire up to 40 per cent of 
the voting shares of National and Grindlays Bank Ltd., London, England. 
Although the application fell within the scope of the Board's delegation 
of authority of January 7, 1969, Governor Brimmer had requested that the 
item be considered by the Board. 
Governor Brimmer now reviewed the application and expressed his 
concurrence in the judgment of the staff, as stated in a memorandum 

184 
1/17/69 
-3-
of January 15, 1969, in which the matter was presented for the 
Board's consideration, that adequate information had been furnished by 
applicant or was otherwise available to conclude that the case did 
not present such potential antitrust problems as to warrant consultation 
with the Department of Justice. 
The application was then approved unanimously, but with the 
understanding that there would be added to the file a statement setting 
forth more fully the factors taken into consideration by the staff 
in forming its judgment that the application did not have significant 
antitrust implications. 
A copy of the letter sent to First National City Bank pursuant 
to the Board's action is attached as Item No. 1. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Citizens National Bank 
of Front Royal, Front Royal, Virginia, into Farmers and Merchants 
National Bank, Winchester, Virginia, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
There is a small amount of competition existing 
between The Citizens National Bank of Front Royal and 
Farmers and Merchants National Bank, Winchester; 
however, there is little potential for increased 
competition between them because of State statutes 
regarding de novo branching. The overall competitive 
effect of the merger would be slightly adverse. 

185 
1/17/69 
-4-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Financial National Bank, Jacksonville, North Carolina, with 
First National Bank of Eastern North Carolina, also of Jacksonville, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed 
merger (which was merely a transaction to facilitate the acquisition 
of First National Bank of Eastern North Carolina by Financial Corporation, 
Jacksonville, North Carolina, a newly-formed holding company) would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First State Bank of Tekonsha, Tekonsha, Michigan, into 
The Southern Michigan National Bank of Coldwater, Coldwater, Michigan, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of The First State Bank of 
Tekonsha into The Southern Michigan National Bank of 
Coldwater would eliminate competition existing between 
the two banks. In view of the relatively small size of 
State Bank and the number of remaining banking alternatives 
in the area, the effect of the proposed merger on competition 
would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First National Bank of Wallace, Wallace, Idaho, with First 
Security Bank of Idaho, National Association, Boise, Idaho, was approved 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, Governors Robertson 
and Maisel dissenting. The conclusion read as follows: 

1S6 
1/17/69 
-5-
Consummation of the proposed merger of First 
Security Bank of Idaho, National Association, Boise, 
Idaho, and The First National Bank of Wallace, Wallace, 
Idaho, would eliminate existing competition and further 
increase the heavy concentration of banking resources in 
the State of Idaho. The overall competitive effect would 
be adverse. 
Governors Robertson and Maisel dissented because in their 
opinion the competitive effect should have been cited as substantially 
adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Inland Valley Bank, Hemet, California, into First National Bank 
and Trust Company, Ontario, California, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion stated 
that the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Central Banking System. For reasons given in a memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated January 13, 1969, 
the Board approved unanimously the sending of a letter to Central Banking 
System, Inc., Oakland, California, advising the holding company that 
the Board would defer action on pending applications to acquire shares 
of two national banks, located in Livermore and Burlingame, respectively, 
until such time as the Board had received and reviewed the report on 
the examination currently being made by the Comptroller of the Currency 
of the holding company's lead bank, Central Valley National Bank of 
Oakland. 

1 S 7 
1/17/69 
-6-
A copy of the letter sent pursuant to the Board's action 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
Conference of General Auditors. Pursuant to the recommendation 
contained in a memorandum from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations dated January 14, 1969, the Board approved the scheduling 
of a meeting of the Conference of General Auditors of the Federal 
Reserve Banks in Richmond, Virginia, on April 29-30, 1969, with the 
understanding that an opportunity would be provided for the Chairman 
of the Conference of Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks to express 
his concurrence before further steps were taken. 
Truth in lending. Pursuant to Governor Robertson's recommendation, 
the Board approved the holding of a meeting with Federal Reserve Bank 
personnel concerned with administration of the proposed Board regulation 
on truth in lending, such meeting to be held on a date to be determined 
prior to the release of the new regulation. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Reserve Bank officer salaries. A letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland approving the payment of salary to Margret Beekel 
and Larry R. Shotwell, effective February 1, 1969, at the respective 
annual rates fixed by the Bank's directors was approved unanimously, 
it being understood that the title of each of the two newly-appointed 
officers would be Assistant Vice President and Economist. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 

1/17/69 
-7-
A letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City-
approving the payment of salary to Jerry R. Zahourek as Assistant 
Vice President, Denver Branch, and to John Truitt Leake as Operations 
Officer, Denver Branch, effective January 9, 1969, at the respective 
annual rates fixed by the Bank's directors was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board, then joined the meeting. 
Labor relations matter. Mr. Sherman reported having been 
advised yesterday evening by President Swan of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco that during the day the Professional, Office & 
Industrial Union, an organization affiliated with the Marine Engineers 
Beneficial Union (AFL-CIO) that had been picketing the Bank, caused 
an inbound armored truck to be turned back, the statement having been 
made that the Teamsters Union was observing the picket line. An 
officer of the union then asked to talk with President Swan and the 
request was granted on condition that the armored truck be released. 
During the conversation the union official stated that a meeting of 
Reserve Bank employees had been called for last night and asked that 
the Bank permit a union election to be held. President Swan had 
replied that that involved a matter of System policy, which it would 
take some time to work out. The union officer then indicated that he 
would like to talk again next Thursday, which request was granted, 
and President Swan did not anticipate that in the meantime there would 
be any further interference with Reserve Bank operations. 

I g 9 
. .* * * A " * „ 
1/17/69 
-8-
Mr. Sherman went on to say that President Swan was dispatching 
a letter to the Board concerning the matter and that Mr. Swan would 
like to visit the Board on Wednesday to discuss what procedure might 
be followed toward working out a System position, although certainly 
not with the thought that such a position would be decided upon by 
next week. 
•v 1 
After discussion it was understood that the Board would be 
r . . 
agreeable to meeting with President Swan at a mutually convenient 
time. 
' i iT '' 
ih V 
.7 
So ,„• 
p'i.. 
t -iV 
The meeting then adjourned. 
\P. , i , : . ; 
it 
sr r . •: r, ji, */••. - ' 
.' . . • ; 
V-.sf C 
> 
' 
J . 
^tristUrf& 
Austin 
Deputy Secretary 
.vJ 
C •) • 
' 
. li\ 
.' ': • U. -i\C i\C >J • i : 
'>.: 
. . 
.•.;..•:; . 
$r • 
\ 
11 -
<'•••:> 
: :••'. H 
'• w , 
.•• i 
'0:M:.;n . i 
• . ^vClv i. > v; • .•},' youi" Co i" *;•'.> •.;••..••. i.-, VI'; 
v.••<!•••! 
, 
} 
j : v 
-J.it I 
. 
Vi : T 
ic to a 
> • : • 
• .. . 
. ... 
>/ i i:, i :s. • i 
• ... „ 
-- ' i ... • : 
£ < c. a-
' f. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
190 
Item No. 1 
1/17/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 21, 1969 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 20, 1968, the 
Board of Governors grants permission pursuant to Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M for First National City 
Bank ("FNCB"), New York, New York, to acquire and hold up to 
4-0 per cent of the voting shares of National and Grindlays Bank 
Ltd. ("N&G"), London, England, at a cost of approximately 
$37 
,800,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
It is understood that FNCB will also acquire approxi-
mately $9,600,000 of N&G1s 8 per cent Subordinated Capital Loan 
stock, a nonconvertible subordinated debt obligation under English 
law. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, First National City Bank (Inter-
national), First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
ar*d International Banking Corporation, and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

191 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
Item No. 2 
1/17/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 21, 1969. 
Board of Directors, 
Central Banking System, Inc., 
Oakland, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board has under consideration the applications of 
Central Banking System, Inc. to acquire Livermore National Bank, 
Livermore, California, and Peninsula National Bank of Burlingame, 
Burlingame, California, pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956, as amended. In considering these applications, the Board 
is required to make determinations with respect to the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the present 
and proposed subsidiary banks. In this regard, we are advised that 
an examination of the Central Valley National Bank of Oakland, 
California, is currently being conducted by the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency. The Board has concluded that its 
responsibilities under the Act can best be fulfilled by deferring 
action on Central's applications pending study of the aforementioned 
report of examination. 
Every effort will be made to expedite the Board's 
determinations of these applications. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 9 2 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
1/17/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 17, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland listed below for the period February 1 through 
December 31, 1969. 
Name 
Margret Beekel 
Larry Shotwell 
Title 
Assistant Vice President 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
and Economist 
Annua 1 
Salary 
$20,000 
19,000 
These salaries are at the rates recommended by 
your Board of Directors as reported in your letter of 
January 10, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 4 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
1/17/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 17, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Dolph Simons, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Chairman Simons: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to officers of the Denver Branch of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City listed below for the period 
January 9 through December 31, 1969. 
Annual 
Name 
Title 
Salary 
Jerry R. Zahourek Assistant Vice President 
$16,500 
John Truitt Leake Operations Officer 
13,500 
These salaries are at the rates set by your Board 
of Directors as reported in your letter of January 9, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
