FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
£ 
4 
Minutes for 
May 25, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1.35 
n n 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 25, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Hobbs and Mrs. Semia of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Schoedel of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Consent calendar. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
% 
The Wilmette Bank, Wilmette, Illinois, approving a proposed issuance of 
subordinated capital notes. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No.1. 
In a memorandum dated May 20, 1971, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended that, in response to a question that had been 
raised, the Board take the position that section 220.7(a) of Regulation T, 
relating to securities credit, would not apply to the sale of an investment 

135 
5/25/71 
-2-
contract in cattle where the entire credit is extended in connection with 
financing the purchase of cattle on an instalment basis. 
At the request of Governor Robertson action was deferred pending 
completion of staff studies bearing on certain questions that he raised. 
Issuance of securities by Treasury. 
The staff related its under-
standing of reasons why, instead of a roll-over by the Export-Import Bank 
of its currently maturing securities designed to absorb Euro-dollars, 
the Treasury was issuing $500 million of three-month special certificates 
of indebtedness. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland 
and Kenyon. 
Governor Sherrill presented a recommendation that James B. 
Eckert be promoted from the position of Assistant Adviser to Associate 
Adviser in the Division of Research and Statistics, effective May 31, 
1971, with annual salary at the rate of $32,400. Mr. Eckert would be 
reassigned to work on special problems in banking and finance and would 
be designated as the Division's contingency planning officer. 
Governor 
Sherrill also noted that in related moves Edward C. Ettin would be 
reassigned in charge of the Banking Section while James Kichline would 
be reassigned as Chief of the Capital Markets Section (nonofficial 
position). 
An economist formerly with the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York would replace Mr. Kichline in the Banking Section. 

1354 
5/25/11 
-3-
After discussion Governor Sherrill's recommendation with regard 
to Mr. Eckert was approved unanimously, and it was understood that he 
would take appropriate action with respect to the related moves. 
In this connection there was also some informal discussion of 
the use of official titles, particularly in the research divisions, and 
several suggestions made by members of the Board were referred to Gover-
nor Sherrill for further study. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
