609 
Minutes for 
November 8, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 

3 9 3 5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, November 8, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer —^ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Appropriate staff members of the Divisions of 
Research and Statistics and International 
Finance 
Report on econometric model. Messrs. de Leeuw and Gramlich of 
the Division of Research and Statistics, together with Professors Ando 
and Modigliani of the University of Pennsylvania and the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, presented to the Board a progress report on 
the FRB-MIT econometric model. Work on the model had been going on 
over the past several years, with staff at the Board working jointly 
with the academic contingent centered at MIT. The MIT part of the 
operation had been financed by the Board through contributions to the 
.1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

3936 
11/8/68 
_2-
Subcommittee on the Monetary Mechanism of the Social Science Research 
Council. 
The model in its present state was not a finished product 
ready for use-in the formulation of monetary policy. It was, however, 
at a stage at which critical review and appraisal were possible. Staff 
and academic economists working on the model had, consequently, pre-
pared a presentation for the Board describing the model's salient 
characteristics and showing various simulations that illustrated the 
effects of monetary and fiscal policies on the economy, as they were 
captured in the model. 
During the concluding portion of the presentation, Professor 
Modigliani discussed research that could be undertaken looking toward 
further improvement of the model and expressed the hope that the Board 
would be willing to continue its support of the project. Mr. Brill 
noted that this involved, among other things, the question of alloca-
tion of resources and that one of the reasons for today's presentation 
to the Board was to provide an opportunity to appraise the potential 
benefits of research effort in this area. He indicated that the ques-
tion raised by Professor Modigliani would be explored further in 
connection with the presentation of the Division's budget for 1969. 
Professor Ando pointed out that the time was approaching when 
some policy must be decided on with respect to the extent to which 
disclosure of the model should be made to the business and financial 

3937 
11/8/68 
_3-
community, since inquiries were being received regularly. Professor 
Modigliani explained that thus far the model had been made available 
to universities cooperating in the research effort, but not to parties 
who might want to use it for their own purposes in forecasting. If 
such parties were to have access to the model, presumably they should 
make some form of financial contribution. However, before deciding 
whether the model package should be made available generally it would 
be necessary to come back to the Board for determination of a policy 
position. 
At the suggestion of Governor Mitchell, it was understood that 
additional materials relating to the construction of the model and the 
presentation at today's meeting would be made available for study by 
members of the Board. 
Professors Ando, Modigliani, and Rash (who had accompanied 
them) then withdrew from the meeting along with the staff members who 
had attended for purpose of the presentation of the report on the model. 
Governor Brimmer also withdrew at this point. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on November 4, by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis on November 6, and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco on November 7, 1968, of the rates on dis-
counts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 

3938 
11/8/68 
_4-
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
Money market review. Appropriate members of the Board's 
research staff entered at this point, and the Board received the usual 
weekly money market review consisting today of reports by Mr. Keir on 
the Government securities market, by Mr. Fry on bank credit, and by 
Mr. Stem on the foreign exchange and gold markets. 
During the course of the review, questions were raised by 
Governor Maisel with respect to how a decision should be made on 
activating the proviso clause of the Federal Open Market Committee's 
current economic policy directive if, during the period since the 
Committee meeting at which the directive was issued, key financial 
statistics then under consideration by the Committee had been revised. 
It was agreed that a staff memorandum on the subject would be prepared. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
