FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 5, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
a, 
n 1 M 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

703 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 5, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. 0'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Lynch, Mertz, Noble, and Tuttle and 
Mrs. Duerson of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Curry, and Lawrence of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, McAninch, Rumbarger, 
and Ryan of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
The following items were approved unanimously after considera-
tion of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the respective numbers indicated. 

704 
3/5/70 
-8-
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Overseas 
1 
Investment Corporation, New York, New 
York, granting consent to the acquisi-
tion of capital stock of Credivit, S.A., 
Namur, Belgium. 
Letter to the Organization Committee 
2 
of The Lawrence County Bank, Lawrenceburg, 
Tennessee, approving the application made 
on the bank's behalf for admission to 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to The Citizens Central Bank, Arcade, 
3 
New York, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Yorkshire Corners. 
Governor Brimmer noted that First National City Bank and its 
subsidiaries had been over the guideline ceiling under the voluntary 
foreign credit restraint program for several months (February data were 
not yet available). 
He had in mind very soon proposing letters to First 
National City Bank, and to a few other banks that likewise had been 
exceeding their ceilings. 
The Board noted the protests that had been filed by two nearby 
banks against the branch application of Citizens Central Bank. 
It also 
noted that the application had been approved by the State, and that 
approval was recommended by the Reserve Bank and the Board's staff. 
The 
Board concluded that, on the basis of the evidence before it, the claimed 
anticompetitive aspects were not substantial enough grounds to warrant 
denial of the application. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed acquisition of Bank of St. George, 

3/5/70 
-3-
St. George, and Bank of Commerce, Magna, by Zions First National Bank, 
Salt Lake City, Utah, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Virtually no present or potential competition would be 
eliminated by the acquisition of Bank of St. George, St. George, 
Utah, and Bank of Commerce, Magna, Utah, by Zions First National 
Bank, Salt Lake City, Utah. Overall, the proposal would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First National Bank of Salamanca, Salamanca, New York, 
into The First Trust Union Bank, Wellsville, New York, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
the conclusion being stated as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The First National 
Bank of Salamanca into The First Trust Union Bank, Wellsville, 
would eliminate a small amount of competition now existing 
between them. The potential for greater competition is some-
what limited. Overall, the effect of the proposed merger on 
competition would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Bristol County Trust Company, Taunton, Massachusetts, into 
The First National Bank of Attleboro, Attleboro, Massachusetts, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Bristol County 
Trust Company, Taunton, and The First National Bank of 
Attleboro would eliminate existing as well as the potential 
for increased competition between them by means of cte novo 
branching. 
Overall, the effect of the proposal on competi-
tion would be adverse. 

706 
3/5/70 
-8-
Barnett Banks. Drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on February 17, 1970, of the application of Barnett 
Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Tropical Bank & Trust Company, Sebring, Florida, had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 4. 
Security New York State Corporation. 
Drafts of orders and a 
statement had been distributed reflecting the Board's approval on 
January 22, 1970, of the applications of Security New York State Corpo-
ration, Rochester, New York, to acquire shares of The Bank of Le Roy, 
Le Roy, New York, and The Citizens Bank, Attica, New York. 
The issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents,as issued, are attached under Item No. 5. 
Mid-Ohio Banc-Shares. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated February 27, 1970, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of Mid-Ohio 
Banc-Shares, Inc., Mansfield, Ohio, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of The Sutton State Bank, Attica, Ohio, 
which would be in addition to those of one bank already held. 
The 
recommendations were favorable. 
Included in the distributed material 
were a proposed order and statement that could be used if the application 
were approved. 

707 
3/5/70 
-8-
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
the order and statement was authorized. Copies of the documents, as 
issued, are attached under Item No. 6. 
Barnett Banks. A memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated February 27, 1970, and other pertinent papers had 
been distributed in connection with an application of Barnett Banks of 
Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Bank of 
Osceola, Kissimmee, Florida. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
City National Corporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated February 27, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of City 
National Corporation, Miami, Florida, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of City National Bank of Miami; City 
National Bank of Miami Beach; and The City National Bank of Coral Gables. 
The recommendations were favorable. 
Question was raised whether the Reserve Bank documentation over-
stated the amount of existing and potential competition that would be 
eliminated if the three banks joined in the proposed arrangement. 
Mr. Lawrence presented an evaluation based on service areas from which 
he concluded that the analysis of the Reserve Bank might have been a 
little too strong and that the elimination of competition, looking at 
the total market, would not be significant. 

708 
3/5/70 
-8-
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
At this point Messrs. Holland, Secretary, Axilrod, Associate 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics, and Ghiardi, Adviser, 
Division of International Finance, entered the room and other members 
of the staff, except Mr. Kenyon, withdrew from the meeting. 
Bank rate. Mr. Ghiardi commented on assigned reasons for the 
change in the British Bank rate from 8 per cent to 7-1/2 per cent, the 
general economic situation in Britain, and possible consequences of the 
rate cut both in Britain and on the Continent. He stated that a staff 
memorandum on the subject would be forthcoming. Mr. Axilrod advised 
that there had been no significant repercussions in the New York money 
market thus far this morning. 
Messrs. Axilrod and Ghiardi then withdrew. 
Savings bond luncheon. The Board agreed to accede to the request 
of the Treasury that a luncheon be given for the Savings Bond State 
Chairmen and members of the American Bankers Association's Savings Bonds 
Committee in the Board's dining rooms on Thursday, April 2, 1970. 
Philadelphia building plans. 
It was stated that Mr. Lethbridge, 
the Board's architectural consultant, had visited a number of the Reserve 
Banks, including Philadelphia. Mr. Lethbridge reportedly had some 
reservations about the design of the new Philadelphia building, and he 

709 
3/5/70 
-8-
had inquired of Governor Mitchell concerning his role at this stage, 
since general guidelines for Reserve Bank buildings had not yet been 
drawn up by him. Mr. Lethbridge had been advised that his principal 
function for the present should be to receive information, and it had 
been suggested that he expedite the drafting of the guidelines. 
First Vice President Melnicoff of the Philadelphia Bank had 
expressed concern that the Bank's building program not be delayed unduly, 
giving as one reason a possible increase in the price of the land. 
This 
was said by Mr. Melnicoff to be under the control of the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development, and Governor Mitchell suggested that if 
necessary a representative of the Board might intercede with the Depart-
ment . 
There was agreement that it would be desirable for the consul-
tant to accelerate his work on the guidelines as much as possible. 
New York building program. Question was raised as to a date 
on which it would be appropriate for representatives of the New York 
Reserve Bank to visit the Board and present models of the Bank's proposed 
annex building. Members of the Board indicated that they would like to 
be present, and it was decided to arrange for the visit on a date on 
which all members could be available, which would apparently be toward 
the end of this month or in early April. 
Sponsorship of speeches. Reference was made to the recent 
presentation of a speech by a Reserve Bank President at a meeting at an 

710 
3/5/70 
-8-
overseas location sponsored by an individual private financial firm, 
and a suggestion was made that it might be desirable to develop some 
type of System guidelines relating to the acceptance of invitations to 
participate in privately-sponsored programs. 
It was indicated that the 
subject would be considered further when all Board members, including 
the Chairman, were available. 
Name of annex. 
In a memorandum dated February 27, 1970, 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board, presented certain questions 
resulting from the resolution adopted by the Board in November 1969 to 
the effect that the proposed Board annex building would be named in 
honor of former Chairman Martin. 
After discussion it was agreed that exterior signs to the left 
of the building entrances could appropriately read "Federal Reserve" 
and signs to the right could read "Martin Building". 
It was also agreed 
that a plaque in the lobby should contain the text of the adopted reso-
lution and identify the building as the William McChesney Martin, Jr., 
Building. 
It was requested that a proposed design for the plaque be 
prepared for consideration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

711 
B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
•JoOfCpwA'. 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 1 
3/5/70 
March 5, 1970 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 4, 1969, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") 
to purchase and hold approximately 59 per cent of the capital stock 
of Credivit, S.A. ("Credivit"), Namur, Belgium, at a cost of approx-
imately $2,880,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. In this connection, approval is also 
granted for the purchase and holding of shares of Credivit in excess 
of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of Credivit if Credivit at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if Credivit establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any op-
eration in Belgium or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Credivit as it may require from time to 
time; 

712 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Credivit 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Credivit were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; 
and 
(4) That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares of 
Credivit at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of Credivit, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Credivit in Belgium 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is 
requested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of Credivit. 
The Board has noted that as of January 31, 1970, the com-
bined foreign loans and investments of First National City Bank and 
its subsidiaries exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing con-
sent is given with the understanding that those foreign loans and 
investments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent 
with the guidelines; that the investment now being approved will be 
made within those guidelines; and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

713 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
3/5/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 5, 1970 
Organization Committee, 
The Lawrence County Bank, 
Lawrenceburg, Tennessee. 
Gen tlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application made on behalf of The Lawrence County 
Bank, Lawrenceburg, Tennessee, for stock in the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta, effective if and when the bank opens for business 
under appropriate State authorization, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forth. 
-
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other cor-
porate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $250,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$500,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

The Lawrence County Bank 
-2-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
board of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to 
Commence Business has been issued. The board of directors should 
also adopt, at the same time, a resolution ratifying the action which 
has been taken in the bank's behalf in making application for membership 
in the Federal Reserve System, A certified copy of each resolution, 
together with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta. Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for 
an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the 
deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time 0 
When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the 
Reserve Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will 
be glad to assist you in establishing your relationships with the 
Federal Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives 
of your bank means for making the services of the System most useful 
to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
3/5/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 5, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
The Citizens Central Bank, 
Arcade, New York, 
Gentlemenz 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch by The Citizens Central 
Bank, Arcade, New York, in the Big N Shopping Plaza, Yorkshire 
Corners (unincorporated area), Town of Yorkshire, Cattaraugus 
County, New York, provided the branch is established within one 
year from the date of this letter 0 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank
!
s management and capital are satisfactory and that 
the proposed branch would serve the convenience and needs of the 
community without creating an undesirable competitive situation,. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A„ Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

7 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Tropical Bank & Trust Company, Sebring, 
Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisi-
tion of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Tropical Bank & 
Trust Company, Sebring, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida 
Commissioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation, 
^he Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
716 
Item No. 4 
3/5/70 
RESERVE SYSTEM 

-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 20, 1969 (34 Federal Register 20008), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall be 
extended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 5th 
day of March 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill, 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

7 1 8 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF TROPICAL BANK & TRUST COMPANY, SEBRING, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Tropical Bank & Trust Company, Sebring, Florida ("Bank"). Applicant 
1/ 
controls 18 banks with aggregate total deposits of $557 million. 
Bank, with total deposits of $23 million, is the largest of four 
banks in Highlands County and is located approximately 48 miles from 
Applicant's closest subsidiary. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
°f receipt of the application to the Florida Commissioner of Banking 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company forma-
tions and acquisitions for which Board approvals have been issued 
to date. 

4 
- 2 -
Statutory considerations* - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monop-
oly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the prob-
able effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to 
take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 
10 largest banking organizations in Florida, each of which is a bank 
holding company, control close to 38 per cent of the total deposits in 
the State. Applicant, the third largest banking organization on the 
basis of deposits, controls 4.8 per cent of such deposits. After 
acquisition of Bank, Applicant would control 5 per cent of total 
bank deposits in the State and continue to rank third. Thus, 
acquisition of Bank would have little effect upon Applicant's share 
of control. 

-3-
Bank's service area is regarded as including all of Highlands 
County. Neither Applicant nor any other holding company has a sub-
sidiary in the county. No banking alternative would be eliminated by 
the proposed acquisition. Bank, with 41.4 per cent of total deposits 
in the county, ranks first. However, two of the other three banks 
located in the county are affiliated and together control 43.9 per cent 
of 
deposits there. The acquisition of Bank would have no significant 
effect upon concentration of banking resources in any relevant area. 
There is no significant competition between Bank and any 
of Applicant's subsidiaries. The distances separating Bank from 
Applicant's subsidiaries, the presence of alternative sources of 
banking services in the intervening areas, the fact that Florida law 
prohibits branch banking, and the fact that there is no apparent 
need at this time for another bank in Highlands County make it un-
likely that future competition would develop between Bank and any of 
Applicant's subsidiaries. It appears that consummation of the pro-
posal would not have any significantly adverse effect upon the 
competitive ability of the banks in Highlands County, nor on the 
banks that compete with Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
On the record before it, the Board concludes that consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly 
nor be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any area, and 
would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
nor in any other manner restrain trade in any section of the country. 

Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks, and 
their managements, are considered to be satisfactory. Prospects of 
the group appear favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Bank are regarded 
as fair. Affiliation with Applicant would make available to Bank the 
resources of Applicant to provide additional capital and experienced 
management. Prospects of Bank appear favorable and would be enhanced 
by affiliation with Applicant. The banking factors are consistent 
with and weigh somewhat toward approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. -
Highlands County, Bank's service area, with an estimated population 
of 26,800, is located in south-central Florida, in an area that is 
principally agricultural. Sebring, the county seat, has about 
12,000 people. The banking needs of Highlands County appear to be 
generally well served by the area's banks. However, affiliation 
with Applicant would enable Bank to expand its lending function and 
improve 
trust services. App?„'cant proposes to provide assistance 
to Bank in those areas and also to offer participation in Applicant's 
credit card program. Considerations under convenience and needs 
lend only slight weight toward approval of the application. 

722 
Summary and conclusion. - On Che basis of all the Relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
March 5, 1970. 

t / v O 
Item No. 5 
3/5/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA-
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
SECURITY NEW YORK STATE CORPORATION, 
' 
Rochester, New York, 
' 
For approval of acquisition of all of 
' 
the voting shares of The Bank of 
' 
Le Roy, Le Roy, New York.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to seetion 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Security New York 
State Corporation, Rochester, New York, a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of all 
of the voting shares of The Bank of Le Roy, Le Roy, New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Superintendent of Banks of the State of New York of the applica-
tion and requested his views and recommendation. The New York State 
Banking Board advised the Board of its action, consistent with a 
recommendation made to it by the Superintendent, approving an 
application filed pursuant to the New York Banking Law with respect 
to the same transaction. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 16, 1969 (34 Federal Register 16566), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit 
comments and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A 
copy of the application was forwarded to the United States Depart-
ment of Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired and all those received have been considered 
by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 5 t h day of March 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and 
Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
Chairman Burns was not a member of the Board 
on the date of the Board's decision. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

t 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SECURITY NEW YORK STATE CORPORATION, 
Rochester, New York, 
for approval of the acquisition of 
all of the voting shares of The 
Citizens Bank, Attica, New York. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Security 
New York State Corporation, Rochester, New York, a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of all of the voting shares of The Citizens Bank, Attica, New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Superintendent of Banks of the State of New York of the applica-
; 
tion and requested his views and recommendation. The New York State 
Banking Board advised the Board of its action, consistent with a 
recommendation made to it by the Superintendent, approving an 

t 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 16, 1969 (34 Federal Register 16566), 
providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 5th day of March 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
Chairman Burns was not a member of the 
Board on the date of the Board's decision. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

727 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
SECURITY NEW YORK STATE CORPORATION, ROCHESTER, NEW YORK, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF THE BANK OF LE ROY, LE ROY, NEW YORK., 
AND THE CITIZENS BANK, ATTICA, NEW YORK*' 
STATEMENT 
Security New York State Corporation, Rochester, New York 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956, for prior approval of the acquisition of all of the voting 
shares of both The Bank of Le Roy, Le Roy, New York ("Le Roy Bank"), 
and The Citizens Bank, Attica, New York ("Attica Bank"). Each of the 
applications has been separately considered and is the subject of a 
separate Board Order. However, since certain facts and circumstances 
are common to both applications, this Statement contains the Board's 
findings and conclusions with respect to both. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Superinten-
dent of Banks of the State of New York of receipt of both applications 
and requested his views and recommendations thereon. In view of his 
coordinate responsibilities under New York law, the Superintendent did 
not comment directly to the Board. The New York State Banking Board, 

however, advised this Board of its actions, consistent with the 
recommendations of the Superintendent (a copy of which was also pro-
vided to the Board), approving applications with respect to the same 
transactions, pursuant to Article III-A of the New York Banking Law. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the prob-
able effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served. In each case the Board is required to 
take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transactions. - Applicant 
controls about $329 million in deposits, .4 per cent of the State's 
total deposits, and is the nineteenth largest banking organization and 
the sixth largest bank holding company operating in New York State.—^ 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, unless otherwise noted, 
and reflect all holding company acquisitions approved by the Board to 
date. 

729 
-3-
The 10 largest banking organizations, V7hich include four bank holding 
companies, control about $65.5 billion in total deposits, representing 
81.7 per cent of the total deposits held by all commercial banks in 
the State, Applicant^ acquisition of Le Roy Bank ($11.6 million 
deposits) and Attica Bank ($8.3 million deposits) would have a minimal 
effect on State-wide concentration. 
Applicants largest subsidiary bank is Security Trust Company 
of Rochester, Rochester, New York, which has deposits of $315 million. 
Its only other subsidiary bank is the State Bank of Seneca Falls, with 
$14.6 million in deposits. Applicant is the eighth largest banking 
organization in upstate New York, and controls 3 per cent of deposits 
in that area, which is comprised of New York Banking Districts Three 
through Nine, excluding Westchester County, Security Trust Company 
and State Bank of Seneca Falls are located in the Eighth and Sixth 
Banking Districts, respectively. 
The proposed subsidiary banks, each of which has only one 
office, are located in the Ninth Banking District, and are among 33 
commercial banks in that District. Le Roy Bank, located in Genesee 
County, is the fourteenth largest in the District. Attica Bank is 
located to the south in adjacent Wyoming County, and is smaller than 
all but 11 banks in the District. There is no significant competition 
between the two banks, which are separated by 20 road miles. Five 
offices of three banks are located in the intervening area. 
The nearest office of a present subsidiary to the Attica 
Bank is the Mt. Morris branch of Security Trust Company, some 25 miles 

1 
I 
730 
-4-
from Attica. Neither Attica Bank nor either of the present subsidiaries 
derives more than a minimal amount of business from the area served by 
the other. 
The office of a subsidiary of Applicant closest to Le Roy 
Bank is the Churchville office of Security Trust Company, 11 miles 
northeast of Le Roy. Security Trust Company obtains only a negligible 
amount of its business from the area served by the Le Roy Bank; in 
total, such business is equal to about 3 per cent of deposits and 
5 per cent of loans held by Le Roy Bank. Most of such business is 
held in Security Trust Company's offices in and near Rochester, rather 
than the closer Churchville office, and reflects commuting patterns 
and the attraction of shopping center offices. 
It does not appear that the acquisitions would eliminate 
significant existing competition between the proposed subsidiary banks 
or between either of them and a subsidiary of Applicant. 
The potential for increased future competition between either 
of the proposed subsidiary banks and Applicant's subsidiaries is limited 
by the small size of the proposed subsidiaries and the fact New York law 
prohibits both the present and proposed subsidiaries from establishing 
or acquiring offices outside the Banking District in which they are 
located. Since Le Roy Bank and Attica Bank are located in the same 
Banking District, some potential for increased competition between them 
would be eliminated. However, such potential competition appears remote, 
due to the small size of the banks, and would be limited in any event by 

731 
-2-
the fact that banks are precluded by the "home office protection" feature 
of New York law from broadening into Attica and Le Roy. Under the law, 
acquisition of the subject banks by Applicant will remove that restric-
tion, thus creating a possibility of increased competition in Attica 
and Le Roy by entry of other Ninth District banks. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of either or both of the proposed acquisitions would not 
result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, 
or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area, 
and would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and jnanaig^ria1 resources and future prospects . -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 
regarded as reasonably satisfactory, giving effect to Applicant's stated 
intention of implementing a program to improve the capital position of 
its largest subsidiary. Managements of Applicant and its subsidiary 
banks are competent, and their prospects favorable. The financial condi-
tion and management of Le Roy Bank are satisfactory, and its prospects 
also appear favorable. 
In the event it acquires Attica Bank, Applicant proposes to 
increase the bank's capital. This, in addition to stronger credit 
administration and overall strengthening of management which should 
result from affiliation with Applicant, would effect significant improve-
ment in prospects of that bank. 

-2-
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
with approval of Applicant
f
s proposed acquisition of Le Roy Bank, and 
weigh in favor of approval of the application involving Attica Bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of Applicant's proposals would not significantly affect 
the convenience or needs of communities served by Applicant's present 
subsidiaries. 
The banking needs of communities served by Attica Bank and 
Le Roy Bank are being met by banks located in and near those areas. 
However, the services provided by each of the subject banks would likely 
be improved under the proposed affiliation. Le Roy Bank has operated 
very conservatively, deliberately retarding deposit growth in order to 
assure continuing capital adequacy, and pursuing stringent credit 
policies. Various credit services not now offered by either bank would 
be provided under Applicant's proposal, and additional funds could be 
made available to the areas through participation of loans among 
Applicant's subsidiaries. 
Considerations under this factor favor approval of both 
applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the records, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisitions would be in the public interest and that both applications 
should be approved. 
March 5, 1970. 

733 
Item No. 6 
3/5/70 
UNITED STATES Otf AMERICA 
BfeFORfc THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
MID-OHIO BANC-SHARES, INC., 
' 
Mansfield, Ohio, 
' 
for approval of action to become a
 
1 
bank holding company through the
 
1 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of ' 
the voting shares of The Sutton State ' 
Bank, Attica, Ohio.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Mid-Ohio Banc-Shares, Inc., 
Mansfield, Ohio, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Sutton State Bank, 
Attica, Ohio. Applicant presently owns almost all of the voting 
shares of The Richland Trust Company, Mansfield, Ohio. 

734 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Superintendent of Banks of the State of Ohio of receipt of the 
application and requested his views and recommendation. .The Superin-
tendent recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 30, 1969 (34 Federal Register 20369), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board
f
s 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 5th day of March 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

• O i ) 
BbAib bf tibVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MID-OHIO BANC-SHARES, INC., MANSFIELD, OHIO, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Mid-Ohio Banc-Shares, Inc., Mansfield, Ohio ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to 
become a bank holding company. Applicant, which presently owns almost 
all of the voting shares of The Richland Trust Company ("Richland Trust"), 
Mansfield, Ohio, would become a bank holding company through the acqui-
sition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Sutton State 
Bank, Attica, Ohio ("Sutton Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the. Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Superintendent of Banks of the State 
of Ohio and requested his views and recommendation. The Superintendent 
recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 

736 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a mbnopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into considera-
tion the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant was 
formed in 1968, in which year it acquired over 99 per cent of the out-
standing shares of Richland Trust ($61.2 million deposits).—^ 
There 
are six bank holding companies in the State of Ohio, which, in the 
aggregate, hold deposits of $3.5 billion, representing 17.8 per cent 
of the State's total deposits. Upon acquisition of Sutton Bank ($5.9 mil-
lion deposits), Applicant would rank sixth in size among seven bank hold-
ing companies in the State. The consummation of Applicant's proposal 
would increase the percentage of banking deposits held by bank holding 
companies in Ohio by only .25 per cent, and therefore would not signifi-
cantly affect State-wide banking concentration. 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, unless otherwise noted, 
and are adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board to date. 

73 
u i* 
Richland Trust is the second largest of seven banks located 
in Richland County; Sutton Bank is the sixth largest of eight banks 
located in Seneca County, Sutton Bank's single office is 32 miles 
from the nearest of Richland Trust's nine offices. One county and 
offices of four banks are located in the intervening area. Neither 
bank derives any significant amount of business from the service area 
of the other, and, under State law, neither bank can establish branches 
in the county in which the other is located. Accordingly, consummation 
of the proposal will have no significant effect on present competition 
and there will be no foreclosure of potential competition. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States, 
and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or 
tend to create a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects, -
Applicant and each of the banks are in sound financial condition and 
their management and prospects are regarded as satisfactory and con-
sistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
proposed transaction would have little effect on the operations of 
Richland Trust, Most banking needs of Seneca County appear to be 
served adequately by Sutton Bank and its competitors; however, trust 

738 
services are not available locally* 
Applicant proposes to have a trust 
officer visit Sutton Bank from time to time to provide such services. 
These considerations are consistent with approval of the application, 
and lend some weight in support thereof. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
action would be in the public interest and that the application should 
be approved. 
March 5, 1970. 
