Minutes for 
January 12> 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

98 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 12, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Forrestal and Sanders of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Fisher and Keir of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

99 
1/12/67 
-13-
Branch application (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to United Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, 
(copy attached as Item No. 1), approving the establishment of a branch 
in East Hartford and commenting on the bank's capital position. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to 
the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Empire 
City Savings Bank, New York, New York, into Excelsior Savings Bank, also 
of New York, in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of Excelsior Savings Bank, New 
York, and Empire City Savings Bank, New York, would elim-
inate some existing as well as potential for competition 
between the two banks. However, the number and variety 
of financial institutions offering convenient facilities 
for savings banks' customers are substantial. The overall 
competitive effect would be somewhat adverse. 
Application of Security Bank (Items 2 and 3). There had been 
distributed drafts of a proposed order and statement reflecting approval 
by the Board on January 11, 1967, of the application of Security Bank 
and Trust Company, Lincoln Park, Michigan, to merge with First National 
Bank of Allen Park, Allen Park, Michigan. 
Certain changes in the proposed statement having been agreed 
upon, the issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents as issued are attached as Items 2 and 3, respectively. 
Mortgage discounts. The Bureau of the Budget had asked the 
Board, by transmittal memorandum dated January 5, 1967, to comment by 

1 0 0 
1/12/67 
-13-
no later than today on a draft report prepared by the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development relating to mortgage discounts. The 
report had been prepared for the Senate and House Banking and Currency 
Committees pursuant to a request contained in a conference report on 
housing legislation passed in 1966. The Congressional conferees had 
expressed "deep concern over the practice of discounting FHA-insured 
and VA-guaranteed home loans" and stated that "in view of the fact that 
discounts presently appear to be the worst in our history, it is urgent 
that the Department of Housing and Urban Development make a study of 
this practice and promptly report to the Congress with recommendation 
for the control or elimination of discounts," whether on Federally 
underwritten or conventional mortgages. 
A memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
January 11, 1967, analyzed features of the draft report, with particular 
attention to the recommendation that "every possible effort be made to 
insulate the mortgage market from fluctuations in the general capital 
markets when the latter respond, as they must, to monetary and fiscal 
policy actions." One of the specific recommendations in the report was 
that the authority granted to the Federal Open Market Committee to buy 
and sell direct obligations of any agency of the U.S. Government be used 
to buy debentures of the Federal National Mortgage Association and the 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board in lieu of Treasury obligations. 
Submitted 
with the Research Division's memorandum was a draft of proposed reply to 

1 0 1 
1/12/67 
-13-
the Budget Bureau centering on a view that the recommendation with 
respect to direct purchases by the Federal Reserve would be inimical 
to the appropriate functioning of monetary policy. 
There was a general discussion of the draft report and the pro-
posed letter to the Budget Bureau during which various views were advanced 
by members of the Board with respect to ways in which the Board's reply 
might be modified, such as to broaden its scope, to express more strongly 
the principal argument stated therein, and to deal more clearly with the 
effects foreseen from Federal Reserve open market purchases of the kind 
recommended. 
It became apparent that the views of Board members were of such 
nature that it would be difficult to prepare and transmit a revised 
reply today. In addition, some members of the Board expressed a desire 
to have copies of the complete draft report of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development. Accordingly, it was understood that the Budget 
Bureau would be advised by telephone that time did not permit the trans-
mittal of a Board report today. 
It was also understood that the staff 
would work on the preparation of a revised draft reply for the Board's 
consideration. 
Delegation of Board functions. Legislation approved on November 5, 
1966, (Public Law 89-765), authorized the Board to delegate certain func-
tions, and the Legal Division had had in process a memorandum relating to 
the implementation of that legislation. However, it had been suggested 

1 0 2 
1/12/67 
-13-
that there first be submitted to the Board a list of functions on the 
basis of which the Board might determine which functions it wished, as 
a matter of policy, to delegate. Accordingly, there had been distrib-
uted a memorandum from the Legal Division dated January 6, 1967, sub-
mitting three lists of functions. The first list set forth functions 
that, in the staff's opinion, it would clearly be appropriate for the 
Board to delegate. The second list set forth functions as to which 
there might be more question, and the third list set forth functions 
that the Board presumably would not wish to delegate. Most of the 
listed items were statutory functions that could not have been delegated 
prior to the enactment of the recent legislation. However, the lists 
also included some non-statutory functions now vested in the Board by 
Board regulations, along with certain other functions that were neither 
statutory nor regulatory but which had heretofore been exercised as a 
matter of practice only by the Board itself. The lists did not include 
certain housekeeping functions that had already been delegated to a 
designated Board member pursuant to a general statute enacted several 
years ago. 
The lists also suggested delegees to whom particular functions 
might be delegated, recognizing that under the law it was the prerogative 
of the Chairman of the Board to assign responsibility for the performance 
of delegated functions. 
It was contemplated that upon determination by the Board of the 
functions to be delegated, and assignment of such delegations by the 

1 
1/12/67 
-13-
Chairman, the Legal Division would submit a memorandum regarding the 
procedures to be followed, along with the formal delegation rules that 
would have to be published in the Federal Register. 
Mr. Hackley reviewed the provisions of the new legislation, 
noting particularly that it contained no authority for the delegation 
of rule making or regulatory functions or matters of policy. He also 
pointed out that the Board would have to review each delegated action 
within such time and in such manner as the Board might prescribe by 
published rules. In order to comply with the review requirements of 
the statute, the staff had in mind certain tentative procedures accord-
ing to which the Board members would have an opportunity to request 
review of any action proposed to be taken at the delegated level. In 
brief, it was contemplated that at the end of each business day each 
delegee would submit to the Secretary of the Board a description of 
actions proposed to be taken, that the Secretary would distribute a 
combined list to the Board members the following morning, that the Board 
members would then have one or two business days to request that any of 
the items be placed on the agenda for a Board meeting, and that in the 
absence of such a request the appropriate steps to effect action would 
be taken by the delegees. It would be understood, of course, that any 
item considered by a delegee to involve a significant question would be 
referred to the Board for decision. 

1/12/67 
-7-
Chairman Martin commented at this point that today's discussion 
would be of a preliminary nature, and no action would be taken at this 
time. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that his initial reaction was to 
favor less, rather than more, delegation. As a new member of the Board, 
he had found the discussion of many of the matters coming before the 
Board to be educational. While he would favor delegating some more or 
less inconsequential functions, he rather hoped that the list of dele-
gated functions would not include items of significance. As to the 
persons to whom various functions might be delegated, he tended to 
think in terms of Board members being somewhat more involved than might 
be implied from the suggestions submitted with the Legal Division's memo-
randum. In particular, he felt that it might be appropriate to delegate 
certain functions to committees of members of the Board. 
Mr. Hackley commented that when the Board first recommended 
legislation to authorize delegation of functions it indicated that at 
the outset it probably would delegate only relatively minor functions. 
However, since that time there had been considerable discussion in terms 
of the need to delegate functions in order to afford the Board members 
more time to devote to policy matters. In addition, there had been 
representations from the banking community that the delegation of var-
ious functions would be desirable for the purpose of expediting decisions. 
In all the circumstances, Mr. Hackley felt that the Board might 
be subject to some criticism if it did not delegate certain rather 

1 0 5 
1/12/67 
-13-
significant functions now that the legislation it had recommended had 
been enacted. Decisions on the extent of delegation obviously involved 
a question of judgment, and the factor mentioned by Governor Brimmer 
was one consideration. However, under the contemplated procedures any 
Board member who felt insufficiently informed on a particular matter 
could request that the item be brought up for Board consideration. Also, 
a Board member would have an opportunity to obtain information through 
direct contact with the delegee. 
Governor Brimmer then pointed out that he had not specified 
where the line should be drawn. Instead, he had merely expressed his 
uncertainty. However, he had intended to direct his comments principally 
to the list of functions contained in the second of the three attachments 
to the memorandum from the Legal Division. 
In further discussion, during the course of which Governor 
Robertson withdrew from the meeting to keep another appointment, Governor 
Maisel pointed out that different philosophies might develop, particularly 
to the extent that functions were delegated to the twelve Federal Reserve 
Banks, in the absence of basic policy statements from the Board. If such 
policy statements were distributed, it might be said that the delegee 
could take action whenever a matter under consideration fell within the 
scope of the guidelines. If it did not, the delegee would be expected 
to present the matter to the Board for decision. 
Governor Daane observed that the educational process mentioned 
by Governor Brimmer might be satisfied if Board members took the 

106 
1/12/67 
-13-
initiative in contacting delegees for whatever information might be 
wanted. However, he was somewhat concerned about the procedures sug-
gested by Mr. Hackley, since it appeared that each Board member would 
be presented daily with a list of proposed actions, on the basis of 
which he would have to try to decide whether to request Board discussion. 
Accordingly, it was not clear that a great deal would be saved in terms 
of time and effort on the part of the Board members. His general philos-
ophy was in the direction of running more risk on the side of delegation, 
to the extent that that would be permissible under the law. He suggested 
that the problem might be resolved to some degree if there was a clear 
understanding that every delegee would be expected to present matters to 
the Board where there was any element of doubt. 
Chairman Martin noted that while the Board now had power to 
delegate, it still must assume responsibility for actions taken under 
delegated authority. 
As the discussion proceeded, Governor Mitchell suggested that 
appropriate guidelines be established for every delegated function and 
that periodic reports be required on the more important delegated func-
tions. If those two safeguards were instituted, he saw no strong reason 
why most of the functions listed in the first two attachments to the 
Legal Division's memorandum could not be delegated, certainly those on 
the first list. He further expressed the view that a number of functions 
should be delegated to the Reserve Banks. 

107 
1/12/67 
-13-
Mr. Hackley pointed out that in some cases statutory guidelines 
were available and that on some other matters the Board had already pre-
scribed guidelines. There might be still other instances where guidelines 
would be desirable, but he was inclined to think that they might be rather 
few. 
Governor Shepardson commented that it had been at his suggestion 
that this initial memorandum from the Legal Division was placed before 
the Board for consideration. It had been his view that as a first step 
the Board might make some tentative determination as to the types of 
items that should or should not be delegated, following which the staff 
could develop appropriate policy statements or guidelines as necessary. 
In his opinion, the Board should move toward delegation of most, if not 
all, of the functions listed in the first two attachments to the Legal 
Division's memorandum. Many, he thought, could be assigned to the 
Reserve Banks, subject to instruction that any questionable items were 
to be referred to the Board for consideration and that periodic reports 
were to be provided on certain types of actions taken. Some way must 
be found to satisfy the procedural requirements of the law, but he felt 
that the use of appropriate guidelines and periodic reports should help 
to make the operation workable. 
At the request of the Chairman, the Secretary reviewed proce-
dures that had been followed by the Board a number of years ago whereby 
certain functions were assigned to individual Board members on a basis 

1 0 8 
1/12/67 
-13-
th at matters falling within the framework of prescribed Board policy 
could be approved, with a record of the action then entered in the 
Board's minutes. He assumed that it was contemplated that a record of 
actions taken by delegees, as functions were delegated under the new 
legislation, would be included in the minutes. 
Governor Shepardson expressed the view that it would be inadvis-
able to delegate too many functions to individual Board members. He 
pointed out that the range of Board members' responsibilities of a 
policy nature would scarcely permit study and expeditious decision in 
the capacity of delegee if many such assignments were made. He also 
referred to the views expressed by State member banks and State bank 
supervisors that State banks were at a disadvantage, as compared to 
national banks, because of the need to obtain clearance for proposed 
transactions at both the State and Federal levels. To the extent that 
functions could be delegated to the Reserve Banks, he felt that that 
would remove a great deal of the difficulty. He also felt that it 
could be done without adverse consequences in terms of the responsibil-
ity that the Board must retain at the policy level. 
Governor Brimmer added to his earlier comments by saying that he 
had had particularly in mind the possibility of delegating to committees 
of the Board a number of functions such as those described in the second 
attachment to the Legal Division's memorandum, thus permitting appropriate 
attention to be given to such matters without requiring the time and 
attention of the full Board. 

l o 9 
1/12/67 
-12-
Chairman Martin commented, at the conclusion of the discussion, 
that he thought progress had been made in developing the Board's general 
thinking on the extent to which delegation of functions would be appro-
priate. He pointed out that there were related aspects of the operation 
to be considered; for example, whether Board meetings should be held 
less frequently and whether some change in managerial arrangements within 
the Board's organization would be helpful. He then suggested that further 
consideration of the question of delegation of functions be deferred and 
that the subject be taken up again some time when all Board members were 
present. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (copy attached 
a s Item No. 4) approving the designation of 19 employees as special 
assistant examiners. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics and the 
Division of Administrative Services dated January 10, 1967, recommending 
publication of a pamphlet by Helmut Wendel of the Division of Research 
and Statistics entitled "Interest Rate Expectations: 
Tests on Yields 
Among Short-Term Government Securities," with the understanding that 
copies would be distributed in accordance with the policy on pricing 
and distribution approved by the Board in June 1965. 
Memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated 
January 10, 1967, recommending the establishment of a new position 
in that Division, with the title of Assistant to the Director. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 

1 1 0 
1/12/67 
-13-
Salary increase and change in title 
Ralph C. Bryant, Economist, Division of International Finance, from 
$12,873 to $13,769 per annum, with a change in title to Assistant to the 
Director, effective January 16, 1967. 
Permission to engage in outside activity 
Paul Gekker, Senior Economist, Division of International Finance, 
to participate in a symposium on the role of American business in East-
West trade, to be held at Norwich University, Northfield, Vermont, in 
July 1967. 

111 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• P THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
1/12/67 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20351 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 12, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
United Bank and Trust Company, 
Hartford, Connecticut. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by United Bank and 
Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, of a branch at 
577 Burnside Avenue, East Hartford, Connecticut, pro-
vided the branch is established within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The Board notes your bank's capital position 
is somewhat less than satisfactory and urges that care-
ful consideration be given to all means to strengthen 
the capital structure so that continued growth of your 
bank will be on a sound basis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

112 
UNITED STATES 0 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF 
WASHINGTON, 
the Matter of the Application of 
SECURITY BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
approval of merger with 
Hrst National Bank of Allen Park 
Item No. 2 
? AMERICA 
1/12/67 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D. Cw 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
t h e Bank Merger Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1828(c), Public Law 89-356), 
° n application by Security Bank and Trust Company, Lincoln Park, 
*I!-Chigan, a state member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the 
B°ard4
s prior approval of the merger of that bank and First National 
of Allen Park, Allen Park, Michigan, under the charter and title 
o f Security Bank and Trust Company. As an incident to the merger, the 
sole office of First National Bank of Allen Park would become a branch 
o f the resulting bank. 
Notice of the proposed merget, in form approved by the Board 
Governors, has been published, and reports on the competitive factors 
W o l v e d in the proposed transaction have been furnished by the Comptroller 
Of 
4.1 
cne Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the 

1 1 3 
-2-
Attorney General, pursuant to the provisions of said Act prescribing ten 
CQlendar days as the period within which such notice must be published 
arid such reports must be furnished when an emergency exists requiring 
Seditious action. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed m e r g e r > 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
before the fifth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 12th day of January, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Shepardson, Mitchell, Daane, 
Maisel, and Brimmer. 
(signed) 
Merritt Sherman 
Herritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

114 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 3 
1/12/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY SECURITY BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF ALLEN PARK 
STATEMENT 
Security Bank and Trust Company, Lincoln Park,.Michigan 
("Security Bank"), with total deposits of about $171 million,, has 
^Plied, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C.s1828(c), as 
tended by Public Law 89-356), for the Board's prior approval of 
merger of that bank with First National Bank of Allen Park,. 
A U e n Park, Michigan ("First National"), which has total deposits 
about $8 million*"" 
The banks would merge under the charter and 
name of Security Bank* which is a member of the Federal Reserve 
Astern. As an incident to the merger, the sole office of First 
^ational would become a branch of Security Bank, increasing the 
number of its offices to 17* 
Competition* - The head office and four branches of 
S 
ecurity Bank are in Lincoln Park; the bank has three branches in 
All 
Park and eight other branches in surrounding communities. 
Lincoln Park (1960 population about 54,000) is about nine miles 
s°uthwest of doxmtown Detroit and contiguous to the southeastern 
'S of December 2, 1966. 

115 
-2-
c°rporate limits of Allen Park <1960 population about 37,000), the site 
°f the sole office of First National. These communities are predominantly 
r®sidential in character, although each has some industry. 
First National and Security Bank operate th£ only banking 
offices in Allen Park, Under State law, no bank other than First 
National or Security Bank can establish a branch in Allen Park, either 
SS. novo or through merger. Thus, the only possible merger is between 
these two banks, and it would have a substantially adverse effect on 
competition. First National derives the preponderance of its business 
f^om the area within a five-mile radius of its office, although it has 
mQde a substantial volume of loans to customers located outside Allen 
2/ 
Park. The bank's service area"" lies wholly within the service area of 
Security Bank. 
A Dearborn-headquartered bank has a branch one mile from 
Allen Park and two large Detroit-based banks have one branch each 
Within two miles of Allen Park. It does not appear that these, or 
ar*y other, banking offices would be adversely affected by the merger. 
As discussed below, First National is confronted with a 
Serious capital problem for which there seems to be no feasible 
s°lution other than merger. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
^ merger with anticompetitive effects of the magnitude that are present 
this case may not be allowed under the amended Bank Merger Act unless 
£/ The area from which a bank derives 75 per cent or more of its deposits 
°f individuals, partnerships and corporationsf 

116 
-3-
ttle adverse effects for competition would be "clearly outweighed in 
public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in 
feting the convenience and needs of the community to be served." 
banking factors are relevant to this consideration to the extent 
that "they throw light on the capacity of the existing and proposed 
institutions to serve the community.""^ 
First National, which opened for business in 1962, has 
loans i n either the "doubtful" or "loss" category that together 
ec^al more than 85 per cent of its aggregate capital funds and 
Reserves, A charge-off of the losses and of 50 per cent of the 
Ioans that are of doubtful collectibility would reduce the bank!s 
total capital structure from $576 thousand to $124 thousand. Thus, 
it i 
apparent that the capital structure of First National is grossly 
inadequate in relation to its risk assets of over $4 million and 
deP<>sits of nearly $8 million. 
On the basis of the record before it, including information 
furnished by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board 
o f the view that unless the capital of First National is promptly 
appropriately augmented, there is a serious question as to whether 
tlle bank can survive. It appears most doubtful that such an augmenta-
ti 
° n could be accomplished through the issuance of stock; and, as 
itl(1icated earlier, the branching restrictions of Michigan law preclude 
tlle merger of First National with any bank other than Security Bank. 
8«R. Re?. No. 1221, 89th Cong., 2d Sess. 4 (1966). 

117 
-2-
The Boardfs staff was visited by a Michigan lawyer who 
stated that a group he represents is willing to buy First National 
and put in substantial additional capital. He subsequently sub-
mitted a letter containing the same assertion. It does not appear, 
however, that this group, some of whom remain undisclosed, has 
Pursued this proposal with the appropriate parties to the extent 
that it can be considered a feasible alternative, particularly 
since First National's problem requires prompt corrective action. 
Accordingly, and in consonance with the advice of the Office of 
the Comptroller of the Currency — the agency primarily responsible 
for supervision of First National — the Board has concluded that 
the only feasible solution for the bank's problem is the proposed 
merger with Security Bank. 
The banking factors with respect to Security Bank are 
generally satisfactory, and it is capable of coping satisfactorily 
ttith the difficulties that would be attendant upon the absorption 
°f First National, 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The merger would 
eliminate an alternative source of banking services from the Allen 
park community, but it would also provide an orderly solution for the 
serious capital problem of First National. Unless corrective action 
is taken, it is likely that the condition of the bank will xrorsen. 
The merger would assure that the Allen Park community will not suffer 
the adverse impact that would result from continued deterioration in 
the bank's condition. 

5-
118 
Summary and conclusion, - The effect of the merger of Security 
®ank and First National on competition would be substantially adverse. 
is the judgment of the Board, however, that the anticompetitive 
consequences would be clearly outweighed in the public interest by 
the effect of the transaction in avoiding for the Allen Park community 
consequences likely to result if the serious capital problem of 
First National is not resolved."^ Unless prompt remedial action is 
taken, the bank will be faced with the danger of failure, and there 
does not appear to be any feasible alternative solution to its problem. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
b e approved and that, in view of the emergency situation existing at 
First National, such approval should be given in accordance with the 
Provision in the statute for expeditious action in such a case. 
January 12, 1967. 
i 
S 7 See H.R. Re£« No. 1221, 89th Cong., 2d Sess, 3 (1966); 112 Cong. Rec 
2337-38 (1966). 

119 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
1/12/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 13, 1967 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of January 6, 1967, the Board-approves the designa-
tion of each of the following employees as a special 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco: 
J. J. Curran 
c . 
G . Thurston 
D. A. DeCius 
L. K . West 
F. Ferrari 
J. R. Plummer 
R. D. Palmer 
J. F. Robinson, Jr. 
K . C. Parker 
L. G. Clarke 
J. P. Quinn 
D. C. Gonnerman 
w . S. Randall 
R. M. Emerson 
R. J. Ross 
J. M. Nielsen 
D. A. Seidenberg 
R. T. 
D. 
Thompson 
s . Gertz 
Appropriate notations have been made on our 
records of the names to be deleted from the list of 
special assistant examiners. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
