609 
Minutes for 
February 6, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office, Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

427 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 6, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Sigel, Smith, Eckert, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, 
Gehman, Keir, Kelty, Thompson, Trueblood, and 
Zeisel of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Irvine, Katz, Reynolds, 
Wood, Bryant, Gekker, Gemmill, Klein, and 
Maroni, and Mrs. Junz of the Division of 
International Finance 
Mrs. Santoro of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York 
Economic review. A review of international and domestic business 
and financial developments such as customarily presented in preparation 

428 
2/6/67 
-2-
for a meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was given by the 
Divisions of International Finance and Research and Statistics. The 
staff reports were based to a considerable extent on material that had 
been distributed for purposes of the Committee meeting, and copies of 
the relevant documentation have been placed in the Committee's files. 
Members of the research divisions then withdrew from the 
meeting, as did Mrs. Santoro, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Technical Assistant, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Application of Company for Investing Abroad (Item No. 1). 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to The Company for Investing 
Abroad, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, approving an amendment to its 
Articles of Association changing its name to The Fidelity International 
Corporation. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Report on competitive factors. After discussion, a report to 
the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of The Second National Bank of Titusville, Titusville, 
Pennsylvania, into Marine National Bank, Erie, Pennsylvania, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion of the 
report read as follows: 

129 
2/6/67 
-3-
While consummation of the proposed merger of Marine 
National Bank, Erie, and The Second National Bank of 
Titusville would eliminate a small amount of competition 
existing between them in the Titusville area and potential 
for more competition between them, the overall competitive 
effect is not significantly adverse. 
Record of Board policy actions. There had been distributed a 
memorandum from Mr. Sherman dated February 3, 1967, submitting draft 
entries for the record of Board policy actions for 1966 in form pro-
posed for inclusion in the Annual Report. 
During discussion, suggestions were made for minor changes, 
principally of an editorial character, in several of the entries. In 
addition, agreement was expressed with a suggestion that the full text 
of the letter sent to all member banks under date of September 1, 1966, 
in regard to the use of discount facilities in the then current economic 
environment be included in the policy record. 
With regard to the entry relating to the Board's action on 
September 21, 1966, reducing the maximum rate of interest permitted to 
be paid by member banks on time deposits under $100,000, Governor 
Mitchell suggested deletion of language indicating that the purpose of 
the action was to limit further escalation of interest rates paid in 
competition for consumer savings. The consensus favored retaining that 
language since it had been used in the statement issued publicly by the 
Board at the time. However, at the suggestion of Governor Maisel it was 
agreed that the policy record entry would be restructured in a manner 
that tended to meet in part the point raised by Governor Mitchell. 

129 
2/6/67 
-3-
Governor Daane expressed some concern with regard to the entry 
for July 15 relating to disapproval of action taken by the directors 
of several Federal Reserve Banks to increase the discount rate. He 
recalled that he had voted to disapprove the discount rate increase 
only after expressing substantial reservations and basically for 
reasons different from those described in the statement that had been 
drafted for the policy record. He said that he would like to review 
the pertinent minutes with the thought of suggesting an addition to 
the policy record entry that would help to clarify his position. After 
a discussion during which Governor Brimmer remarked that he had con-
cluded, after checking the minutes carefully, that the entry as drafted 
fairly summarized the principal reasons expressed during consideration 
by the Board of the proposed discount rate increase, it was understood 
that Governor Daane would consider the matter further after he had 
reviewed the minutes. 
Governor Brimmer then inquired whether the reasoning presented 
at one point in the same July 15 entry was intended to reflect a view 
that had been expressed by Governor Maisel in support of the decision 
to disapprove the proposed discount rate increase. Governor Maisel 
commented that the particular passage was related to a point he had 
raised at the time, but that the language of the policy record entry 
did not convey the underlying rationale clearly. In the circumstances 
it was understood that Governor Maisel would suggest amended language 
for that part of the policy record entry. 

4 3 1 
2/6/67 
-5-
After additional discussion it was agreed that the staff would 
amend several of the policy record entries to conform to the understand-
ings reached at this meeting and that the July 15 discount rate entry 
would be brought back to the Board in revised form for further consider-
ation. 
Float (Item No. 2). In a letter of December 23, 1966, the Board 
informed the Chairman of the Conference of Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks that it had noted with approval the recommendations with 
respect to reduction of float adopted by the Conference at its meeting 
on December 12. One of these recommendations contemplated that no 
Federal Reserve office would any longer consider Saturday as a business 
day for the purpose of computing availability of credit for country 
items (either intradistrict or interdistrict). Thus far, Saturday had 
been counted as a business day for that purpose in four Federal Reserve 
Districts--Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas. The Board sug-
gested in its letter to the Conference Chairman that the change be 
announced effective February 17, 1967. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City subsequently sent to 
each of the member banks in its District an operating letter containing 
a changed time schedule of credit for cash items, to be effective 
February 17, 1967, which reflected the policy of not counting Saturday 
as a business day. Mr. Eugene H. Adams, President of The First National 
Bank of Denver and a director of the Kansas City Reserve Bank, then sent 

129 
2/6/67 
-3-
a letter to all of the Group I banks in the Tenth District suggesting 
that, if they agreed with reasons that he mentioned for protesting the 
change, they register their opposition with the Kansas City Reserve 
Bank. Mr. Adams' letter enclosed a copy of a statement he had made at 
the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Kansas City Reserve Bank 
on January 12, 1967. With a letter of January 27 to Chairman Martin, 
Mr. Adams enclosed copies of the material he had sent to the Tenth 
District banks and asked that the Board defer the effective date of 
the change. (Mr. Adams also sent letters to certain bankers outside 
the Tenth District.) 
There was general agreement at the meeting of the Board on 
February 1 that there should be no indication from the Board of any 
possibility that the action would be withdrawn or deferred. There had 
now been distributed a draft of reply to Mr. Adams. 
A number of suggestions were made with regard to the draft 
letter, after which it was understood that the letter would be revised 
in the light of the comments made. (Note: The letter was subsequently 
revised, cleared with available Board members, and sent over Chairman 
Martin's signature on February 8, 1967. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Copies were sent to President Clay, and also to the other Reserve Bank 
Presidents for their information.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

433 
2/6/67 
-7-
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board ; 
letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco (copy attached as Item 
No. 3) approving the appointment of 
John N. Nind as assistant examiner. 

434 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R B 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
2/6/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
February 6, 1967. 
The Company for Investing Abroad, 
Fidelity Philadelphia Trust Building, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19109 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to ypur letter of January 19, 
1967, enclosing a copy of a resolution of shareholders 
changing the name of your Corporation to The Fidelity 
International Corporation and a certified copy of a reso-
lution adopted by your Board of Directors amending Article 
FIRST of the Articles of Association of your Corporation to 
make such change. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment to 
Article FIRST. Please advise the Board when the change in 
name becomes effective. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
Item No. 
2/6/67 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
February 8, 1967 
Mr. Eugene H. Adams, President, 
First National Bank of Denver, 
P. 0. Box 5808 TA, 
Denver, Colorado. 
80217 
Dear Gene: 
This refers to your letter of January 27, 1967 and its 
attachments concerning the recently adopted System policy not to 
count Saturday as a business day in calculating deferred credit 
for checks deposited with Federal Reserve Banks. 
As you know, the Board has gone on record with the 
Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives 
that steps would be taken to reduce the level of float in the next 
few years. The change in credit deferment policy that you question 
was adopted by the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks and approved by the Board of Governors as a step in a program 
to ease the float problem. 
Alternative courses of action were considered, including an 
increase in the maximum deferment schedule to three days. Action was 
deferred on this alternative in the hope that other less drastic meas-
ures, such as the one you refer to, would enable the System to reduce 
the amount of credit being extended through float. 
Float, a by-product of the service provided by the Federal 
Reserve System in clearing and collecting checks for member banks, is 
a form of Federal Reserve Bank credit and a net addition to bank 
reserves. It is an interest-free loan from the Federal Reserve System 
to the banking system. In your letter you recognize that because of 
the proposed change in deferment policy there will be a reduction in 
availability of funds which, in turn, will curtail the loans now made 
by large city correspondents to smaller banks--in the case of your Bank 
largely to State nonmember banks. Your use of these funds, indirectly 
freed through an addition to your reserve account, as loanable funds is 
actually the use of Federal Reserve credit at no cost to you. 

Mr. Eugene H. Adams, President 
136 
It has always been recognized that any significant reduction 
in float would cause a loss of reserves by some banks and that in the 
aggregate this total would need to be offset by an injection of reserves 
either through the open market or a change in reserve requirements. 
However, it should be recognized that neither of these broad actions 
for making reserves available would necessarily afford relief to 
individual banks most hurt by float reduction. 
We believe the System is justified in moving to make uniform 
the practice followed by a majority of the Reserve Banks in not count-
ing Saturday as a business day for calculating deferred credit. 
With best wishes, 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Bill 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

437 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
2/6/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
February 7, 1967 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In accordance with the request con-
tained in your letter of February 1, 1967, the 
Board approves the appointment of John N. Nind 
as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, effective today. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmicheal 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
