Minutes for A P r i l 11> 
1 9 6 7 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal. Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 1.0 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not. present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1369 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 11, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Forrestal and Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Golden and Greenspun of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, Goodfellow, Guth, Kline, 
Lyon, Pounds tone, and Rumbarger, and Miss 
Greene of the Division of Examinations 
Application of BT New York Corporation. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated March 28, 
1967, and other pertinent papers concerning an application by BT New 
York Corporation, Suffern, New York, for permission to acquire 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Liberty National Bank and Trust 
Company, Buffalo, New York. A similar application to the State 

1 . " 7 0 
4/11/67 
-2-
authorities had been approved, upon recommendation of the Superintendent 
of Banks, by the New York State Banking Board. 
Favorable recommendations concerning the application pending 
before the Board of Governors had been received from the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. However, the 
Board's Division of Examinations and Banking Markets Section recommended 
denial. 
In commenting on the proposal, Mr. Lyon noted that applicant's 
present subsidiaries included Bankers Trust Company in New York City, 
First State Bank of Spring Valley, and First Trust Company of Albany. 
Liberty National Bank and Trust Company, the bank that applicant now 
proposed to acquire, was the third largest commercial bank in Buffalo 
and in the Ninth Banking District. 
It was located some 200 to 350 miles 
west of applicant's existing subsidiaries, and consummation of the pro-
posal would not eliminate significant present competition. However, 
approval of the application might forestall development of future com-
petition between Liberty National and the current subsidiaries of appli-
cant. On the other hand, denial of the application would not preclude 
applicant's entry into the Buffalo area, either through acquisition of 
a smaller bank or by establishment of a new bank. 
As to the banking factors involved in the proposal, Mr. Lyon 
expressed the opinion that they were consistent with, but did not lend 
weight to, approval. 

1871 
4/11/67 
-3-
It was noted that the New York Superintendent of Banks, in his 
recommendation to the State Banking Board, had concluded that the abil-
ity of Liberty National to compete more effectively with the two largest 
banks in the Ninth Banking District as a result of affiliation with 
applicant would outweigh adverse considerations arising out of Liberty 
National's size and from the fact that applicant had previously acquired 
First Trust Company of Albany, the third largest bank in the Fourth Bank-
ing District. 
The Comptroller of the Currency had recommended approval on the 
basis that no existing or potential competition would be destroyed and 
that the public would benefit. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York had recommended approval 
on the grounds that there was no significant existing competition 
between Liberty National and applicant's present subsidiaries and that 
consummation of the proposal should enable the former to compete more 
effectively with the two much larger banks in Buffalo. 
The Division of Examinations, by contrast, recommended denial, 
based on the following considerations: 
1. The proposal would eliminate some existing com-
petition and foreclose the potential for competition 
between applicant and the proposed subsidiary in upstate 
New York in general, and the Ninth Banking District and 
the Buffalo area in particular. 
2. The proposal would increase the size of the 
largest bank holding company in the State significantly 
and eliminate as a potential lead bank for a predomi-
nantly upstate or regional holding company, the fourth 
largest independent bank in upstate New York. 

1386 
4/11/67 
-4-
3. The proposal would perhaps stimulate competition 
within the Ninth Banking District for the banking require-
ments of medium and larger sized business concerns, but 
only at a cost of further widening the gap between the 
size of the large and small banks located in the District. 
4. The proposal would further intensify banking con-
centration in the State of New York as a whole, and in the 
upstate area. 
5. The proposal would offer no benefits to the con-
venience and needs of the areas concerned of sufficient 
significance to outweigh its anticompetitive effects. 
6. The proposal, with respect to the banking factors, 
offered no weight for approval. 
Mr. Golden stated that the Banking Markets Section was in agree-
ment with the Examinations Division that the application should be 
denied. The Section's view was that this proposal would have an adverse 
effect upon competition and would also tend to increase concentration 
of holding company resources over time, the latter consideration being 
of particular concern. 
Governor Daane remarked that when Superintendent Wille dis-
cussed BT New York Corporation's original proposal for formation of a 
bank holding company system he had made a strong case for regional hold-
ing company systems. He asked how Mr. Wille's basic thrust toward 
regional groups could be rationalized with his favorable recommendation 
on the present application. 
Mr. Solomon recalled that Mr. Wille had expressed the view, with 
regard to the current application, that the fact that Liberty ranked 

1386 
4/11/67 
-5-
such a poor third among the Buffalo banks was persuasive enough a reason 
to justify overriding the general principle that larger upstate banks 
should ordinarily not be allowed to become affiliated with New York 
City-based holding company groups. 
Mr. O'Connell observed that the Superintendent had otherwise 
made no effort to explain the seeming inconsistency. 
In answer to Governor Daane's question as to whether, in the 
opinion of the Division of Examinations, Liberty was in fact at a seri-
ous disadvantage in relation to the larger Buffalo banks, Mr. Leavitt 
said that Liberty had had a good growth rate over the past few years, 
partly through mergers, and seemed to be an effective competitor. 
Governor Mitchell asked whether the Legal Division would con-
sider it appropriate for the Board to include in its statement, if the 
application were denied, an indication that it would be all right for 
BT to sponsor a new bank in Buffalo. 
Mr. O'Connell replied that he thought the Board was entitled to 
express its opinion about methods of expansion. By denying this par-
ticular application, the Board would be stating explicitly that it did 
not approve the contemplated method of expansion. The Board would not 
be precluded from suggesting the possibility of entrance into the Buffalo 
market through sponsorship of a new bank or acquisition of a bank of 
smaller size. Heretofore, however, the Board had been reluctant to go 
far in that direction because it might seem to be encouraging a partic-
ular method of holding company expansion. 

1 . T 7 4 
4/11/67 
-6-
Governor Mitchell asked whether the reasons for denial in this 
case were considered by the staff similar to those that led to the 
Board's recent denial of the application of Allied Bankshares Corp. to 
become a bank holding company by acquiring banks in Norfolk and Richmond, 
Virginia. 
Mr. Solomon expressed the view that the Allied case was stronger 
on the side of approval than this one. The bank proposed to be acquired 
in Richmond was smaller than Liberty, with less potential for becoming 
the nucleus of a new holding company. 
Mr. O'Connell said he thought the legal arguments were quite 
similar. In neither case did the degree of existing competition seem 
sufficient to warrant denial. However, the staff had referred in this 
case to the amount of potential competition that would be eliminated. 
Fundamentally the same reasoning was followed in denying the Allied 
application, although the proposed subsidiary bank in Richmond seemed 
less likely to expand its operations than Liberty. 
Mr. Golden noted that the Banking Markets Section had recom-
mended denial of both applications. He expressed the view that, while 
the cases were rather similar, the potential for competition in the 
present case was greater. 
Governor Mitchell asked whether the Section was assuming that 
denial would bring another large bank into the Buffalo area in one way 
or another, and Mr. Golden replied that approval would appear to pre-
clude such a development. 

1 8 7 5 
4/11/67 
-7-
Governor Mitchell then said that, as he saw it, the main issue 
related to competition in the Buffalo metropolitan area. If BT were 
allowed to acquire Liberty National, that might increase competition 
in a certain sector (medium and large accounts), but there was already 
plenty of competition in that sector. Denial would carry with it the 
expectation that another bank might come into the Buffalo area, presum-
ably as a subsidiary of BT or another New York City-based banking organi-
zation. If the application were approved, such a development was less 
likely. 
Mr. Golden noted that if a new bank were formed as an affiliate 
of BT, the parent organization would be of sufficient size to compete 
effectively through such an outlet. With four sizable banking organi-
zations then competing in the area, the degree of banking competition 
would be enhanced. 
Governor Daane asked why one should dismiss out of hand the 
argument that approval of the application would increase competition 
in the Buffalo area. 
Governor Mitchell pointed out that plants of a number of large 
national firms were located in the area. Those were the accounts for 
which the banks would compete, and that was the sector in which compe-
tition would be increased. 
Governor Mitchell then asked whether the kind of argument he 
had been describing hung together legally, and Mr. O'Connell replied 

1876 
4/11/67 
-8-
that he thought it did. There would be a consistency in the Allied and 
BT opinions. Governor Mitchell expressed the view that they might well 
establish a pattern. 
Governor Brimmer commented, in that connection, that he hoped 
the Board's staff would talk with the Reserve Banks. The standards 
that the Board appeared to be setting up for cases of this kind appar-
ently were not being translated clearly to the Reserve Banks. 
Governor Daane said he continued to feel that there was a valid 
distinction between the Allied Bankshares and the BT cases, in that the 
former involved the proposed acquisition of a unique type of bank. He 
did not see any real basis for raising the question of consistency or 
inconsistency between the cases. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that, while it might be 
appropriate to include in a statement supporting denial of the BT appli-
cation an indication that the Board would be more inclined to approve a 
de novo setup, the Board should be careful to avoid an appearance of 
trying to shape the structure of the banking community. The Board could 
get into difficulty if it implied that it would approve some hypothet-
ical proposal; later, an application might be received that the Board 
would not want to approve. 
Governor Shepardson expressed the view that the BT case was 
much clearer than the Allied Bankshares application, which he would 
have approved. In the BT case, he thought that the staff recommenda-
tions were persuasive. He could not rationalize the New York State 

1877 
4/11/67 
-9-
Superintendent's favorable recommendation, in light of the Superinten-
dent's earlier statements about the kind of State banking structure 
that he would like to see develop. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he favored denial of the appli-
cation, as did Governor Daane, the latter reiterating that he felt the 
case was clear for denial whereas the Allied Bankshares case was dis-
tinguishable from it and should have been approved. 
Governor Maisel thought the case for denial was stronger than 
the case against BT's acquisition of First Trust Company of Albany, 
which he would have denied. 
The other members of the Board also indicated that they would 
deny the current application. 
Accordingly, the application was denied by unanimous vote, with 
the understanding that an order and statement reflecting the decision 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
At this point members of the staff of the Division of Examina-
tions who had attended for the discussion of the Liberty case withdrew, 
along with Messrs. Golden and Greenspun. Messrs. Solomon, Adviser to 
the Board and Director, Division of International Finance, and Sammons, 
Associate Director of the Division of International Finance, entered 
the room. 
Balthex matter. At previous meetings the Board had considered 
an application by The Company for Investing Abroad (subsequently renamed 

1386 
4/11/67 
-10-
Fidelity International Corporation), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, for 
permission to invest in Balthex International, Inc., a United States 
corporation engaged essentially in providing export management services. 
In connection with these discussions, there had been distributed for 
the Board's consideration a series of staff memoranda. 
There had now been distributed a draft of letter prepared by 
the Legal Division, dated April 10, 1967, incorporating comments and 
suggestions offered at the Board meeting of that date, granting consent 
for the proposed transaction. 
Mr. Forrestal noted that the basic issue involved was whether 
Balthex was engaged essentially in international or domestic business 
and, if the former, whether its domestic activities were merely inci-
dental to its international or foreign business. If so, the requisite 
criteria under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act for Board con-
sent to the desired investment were present. 
In response to a question from Governor Daane concerning the 
number of corporations such as Balthex that were combination export 
managers, Mr. Forrestal replied that apparently there were approximately 
225 firms engaged in this kind of business. 
Governor Brimmer observed, however, that in the event the pres-
ent consent were to be granted it was unlikely the Board would receive 
any substantial number of similar applications. According to his infor-
mation, about 70 per cent of the combination export manager firms had 

1879 
4/11/67 
-11-
total sales of under $1 million, and only four had sales of over 
$10 million. Furthermore, he thought that a number of the firms in-
cluded in the 225 figure cited by Mr. Forrestal probably were either 
inactive or had a more predominantly domestic flavor to their opera-
tions than was the case with Balthex. 
Governor Shepardson noted that the problem involved in this 
case had been studied and discussed at length. The proposed draft let-
ter seemed to him to reflect accurately the suggestions made yesterday, 
and he would favor its approval. 
Governor Mitchell commented that his judgment about the matter 
had changed somewhat as a result of the March 7 memorandum from the 
Division of Examinations concerning policy issues involved in the pend-
ing application, in which various nonfinancial service activities were 
assessed in light of their compatibility with a literal reading of the 
statutory tests set forth in section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
He now leaned toward a more liberal point of view than he had held before 
and was inclined to favor approval of the pending request. However, he 
believed it would be desirable to emphasize the borderline nature of this 
case in the letter of approval and to make clear that the Board would 
keep the activities involved under close surveillance. 
Governor Daane indicated that he, too, would favor approval of 
this application. While agreeing with Governor Mitchell that it was 
probably a borderline case, he felt the possible encouragement of export 

1386 
4/11/67 
-12-
business was worth taking the moderate risk involved in consenting to 
the proposed investment. With respect to the text of the letter, he 
wondered whether, if reference were to be made to the marginal nature 
of this case, something on the plus side regarding benefits that might 
accrue should not also be added. 
At this point Mr. Shay raised the question whether or not the 
Board would want to publish its decision. A decision could always be 
made on an ad hoc basis in light of the particular facts in a given 
application and, since the Board appeared to feel that the propriety 
of the proposed investment was a close question, it might be preferable 
not to publish the decision. 
After some discussion of this point, Governor Maisel said that 
upon further careful study he continued to feel that the application 
should be denied. He referred to a paragraph, as follows, from a legal 
interpretation that had been drafted at the Board's request for use in 
the event of disapproval and said that it reflected his conclusions: 
From the facts presented, it appears that the activities of 
the company in the United States and its relationships with 
domestic companies form the core of its business. The com-
pany is but an arm of each manufacturer it represents for the 
purpose of conducting that manufacturer's foreign business. 
The company acts as exclusive export sales agent solely for 
domestic companies and maintains no offices abroad. On the 
basis of these considerations, it is the Board's judgment 
that the company is engaged in a commercial business within 
the United States and that its activities in the United States 
are not "incidental to its international or foreign business." 

1386 
4/11/67 
-13-
However, if the application were approved, Governor Maisel felt that 
the decision should be published in fairness to others who might want 
to consider entering into similar relationships. 
Governor Brimmer expressed himself as favoring approval of the 
proposed investment and recommended that a statement be published in 
the Federal Register and the Federal Reserve Bulletin. He thought the 
matter was of sufficient interest that other prospective applicants 
should know of it; indeed, he understood that at least one other bank-
ing organization proposed to submit a similar application if the Board's 
decision in this case was favorable. The published statement could make 
it clear that each subsequent case would be judged on its own merits. 
With respect to the matter of publication, Mr. Hackley observed 
that there were two considerations involved; one was legal in nature 
and the other involved Board policy. Since the proposed action was 
approval of an individual application, the Board did not have a legal 
obligation to publish it in the Federal Register. On the other hand, 
since the decision did involve interpretation of a statute administered 
by the Board, he thought publication of a general statement would be 
desirable, with an indication that each case would necessarily have to 
stand on its own merits. 
Mr. Goodfellow noted that under certain circumstances invest-
ments in a combination export manager firm might technically fall within 
the general consent provisions of Regulation K (Corporations Engaged in 

1386 
4/11/67 
-14-
Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal Reserve Act). Publica-
tion of an interpretation might serve to put interested parties on 
notice that before undertaking such investments they should nevertheless 
request an opinion from the Board as to the propriety of the transaction. 
Mr. Forrestal, on the other hand, expressed doubt that much 
would be gained through publishing an interpretation. 
It seemed to him 
that the action would become a matter of general knowledge in a short 
time in any event. Publication might only becloud the fact that the 
Board wanted to pass individually upon cases of this kind; Edge corpora-
tions might read the interpretation to mean that they could go ahead 
with various investments under the general consent provisions of Regula-
tion K. 
Governor Brimmer disagreed. He considered the ruling in this 
case to be a major policy decision, predicated basically upon a desire 
to aid United States export trade. In order to make the policy decision 
effective, he thought it was necessary that the ruling be published. 
Governor Mitchell commented that one could not predict what con-
sequences might result from action to approve this application. Pending 
assessment of developments, it seemed prudent for the Board to move 
cautiously. Publication in the Federal Register might create a fanfare 
that would attract the interest of a number of other banks having Edge 
Act subsidiaries and cause a vigorous effort on their part to establish 
similar relationships. This could complicate the picture undesirably. 

1386 
4/11/67 
-15-
If there was to be an announcement, therefore, he would counsel limiting 
it to a modest statement in the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that that would be agreeable to him. 
Governor Maisel expressed the opinion that since this ruling 
involved a statutory interpretation it was incumbent upon the Board to 
publish it in the Federal Register. He believed this was the kind of 
disclosure that the Freedom of Information Act was designed to require. 
The public should be adequately informed about Board policy on matters 
within its jurisdiction, and publication in the Federal Register was 
the normal procedure. 
Mr. Hackley pointed out that it might not be legally necessary 
for the ruling on this application to be published in the Federal Reg-
ister either under the new law or present law. Publication was required 
only of rules of general applicability, whereas the present case would 
fall within the category of adjudication. On the other hand, the Free-
dom of Information Act would require the maintenance of an index to 
Board actions to which the public would have access in order to deter-
mine precedents. Since the present case involved an important precedent, 
it could be published in the Federal Register on the theory that it in-
cluded an interpretation of law. However, future cases of a similar 
nature would still be subject to Board approval on an individual basis. 
Governor Daane expressed some reservations about publishing the 
action in the Federal Register if future cases would still be subject 

1884 
4/11/67 
-16-
to Board approval, because in his view such publication carried with it 
the implication of general applicability. 
Governor Robertson said that in his opinion it would be a mis-
take to approve this application since that would violate a long-standing 
policy of maintaining separation between banking and commercial business 
activities. The proposed action would also be undesirable because, upon 
acquisition of stock in a combination export manager firm by an Edge Act 
subsidiary, the parent bank would have a special interest in financing 
the business of that firm exclusively. A proliferation of such rela-
tionships would therefore have an anticompetitive effect. In substance, 
he did not see how the statute could be interpreted to permit the pro-
posed investment, nor did he feel that the Board should do so as a matter 
of policy. However, if the Board approved the proposed investment, that 
action should be published so that other institutions would be aware of 
it and have an equal opportunity to establish similar relationships. 
The applicant in this case should not be permitted to obtain a competi-
tive advantage. 
Chairman Martin agreed that all institutions having a potential 
interest in the matter should be made aware of the Board's decision. On 
the question of approval or disapproval, he observed that it was clearly 
a matter of judgment whether the domestic activities of Balthex were or 
were not incidental to its international or foreign business. Thus, the 
proposed letter to the applicant would state that: "Accordingly, it is 

1885 
4/11/67 
- 1 7 -
th e Board's judgment that Balthex is not engaged in the general business 
of buying or selling goods, merchandise, or commodities in the United 
States, and that the activities of Balthex in the United States are 
incidental to its international or foreign business within the meaning 
of section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act." In his opinion that sen-
tence stated the matter satisfactorily. 
Governor Robertson commented that the evidence indicated that 
Balthex was engaged in the business of buying goods in this country. 
The question of judgment was whether such activity was or was not inci-
dental to the company's international or foreign business. In his 
opinion, if the application was approved, the sentence referred to by 
the Chairman preferably should read: "Accordingly, it is the Board's 
judgment that the activities of Balthex in the United States are inci-
dental to its international or foreign business. . . . " 
Mr. Shay pointed out that if the Board approved the application 
it must be presumed to have made a finding that Balthex was not engaged 
in the general business of buying or selling goods, merchandise, or 
commodities in the United States. If it was so engaged, the Board would 
have been forced to turn down the application. 
Governors Daane and Brimmer expressed the view that the language 
in the draft letter was satisfactory. 
The application of Fidelity International Corporation to acquire 
up to 35 per cent of the common shares of Balthex was then approved, 
Governors Robertson and Maisel dissenting. 

1386 
4/11/67 
-18-
With regard to the publication of an interpretation based on 
the Board's action on this application, it was understood that a further 
draft reflecting certain suggestions that had been made would be sub-
mitted to the Board for review. 
Social Science Research Council. Upon recommendation of Governor 
Shepardson, the Board approved a request from the staff for permission 
to arrange luncheons in the Board's dining rooms on May 25 and 26, 1967, 
in connection with meetings that had been scheduled to review the work 
of the Subcommittee on the Monetary Mechanism of the Social Science 
Research Council. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
a telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis (copy attached as Item 
No. 1) approving the appointment of 
Joseph Kent Simington as assistant 
examiner. 

1387 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
Item No. 1 
4/11/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
April 11, 1967 
STROTHMAN - MINNEAPOLIS 
Reurlet April 6, 1967, Board approves appointment of Joseph 
Kent Simington as an assistant examiner for Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis, effective today. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
CARMICHAEL 
