MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 27, 1970 

2 9 5 1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, October 27, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
The Board continued the discussion begun at its October 22, 
1970, meeting of the proposed voluntary guide to conduct for senior 
Federal Reserve officials, with particular reference to paragraphs 7, 
8, and 9, concerning speeches. There was general agreement with the 
thrust of those paragraphs in the committee report. To help clarify 
the intended application of paragraph 8, the word "effectiveness" in 
that paragraph was changed to "effective formulation and implementation" 
by mutual consent. After extensive discussion of the advisability of 
developing some more detailed and illustrative amplification of the 
'. 
• -,; J '1.! 'i l..» C ivix • 
final three paragraphs of the committee report, it was concluded that 
the report should be forwarded to the Reserve Bank Presidents with no 
changes other than the specified language alterations agreed to at this 
and the October 22 meeting, leaving details of interpretation to be 
developed in oral discussion at a joint meeting of the Board and the 
Presidents. 

J 3 9 S 2 
10/27/70 
-2-
The following then entered the room: 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
i'tio --. 
i . 
ft XutsiiTCi 
Co 
i 
eluding: 
v.-; :-Licri as 
Other appropriate members of the staff also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Open market policy article. With a memorandum dated October 9, 
1970, Mr. Partee transmitted a draft of article, of which Mr. Axilrod 

2 9 5 3 
t 
10/27/70 
-3-
was the principal author, regarding "Formulation and Implementation of 
Federal Reserve Open Market Policy." The article had been prepared in 
accordance with the wishes of the Board and the Federal Open Market 
Committee to help explain the open market policy process as it had 
evolved during the past year. The expectation was that after clearance 
by the Board and solicitation of comments by the President-members of 
the Committee, the article would be published in the Federal Reserve 
Bulletin. 
The primary focus of the discussion was the desired scope of 
the paper. It was observed that although the title implied coverage 
of the entire ambit of policy formulation, the draft paper was in fact 
a relatively narrow technical exposition. A choice must be made between 
a technical paper that would be understood by and be of interest to a 
small number of readers who were expert in the field, such as the managers 
of the money desks of large commercial banks, or a broader treatment that 
would in effect provide a revision of the material regarding open market 
operations in "The Federal Reserve System: Purposes and Functions" or 
the New York Reserve Bank's publication entitled "Federal Reserve Opera-
tions in the Money and Government Securities Market," by Robert V. Roosa. 
The latter would be of interest to a larger reading public such as 
scholars and financial writers who follow open market policy. The staff 
indicated that it had understood its assignment to call for the narrower 
treatment. 

2 9 5 4 
10/27/70 
-4-
Chairman Burns mentioned a number of elements that he thought 
should be included in a broader study, including a description of the 
preparatory work done by the staff and members of the Committee, of 
the decision-making process at meetings of the Committee, and of what 
happens between meetings. He also thought that the inclusion of a few 
concrete examples would promote clarity. 
Procedural points mentioned included the possibility of publish-
ing two documents, of using a medium other than the Federal Reserve 
Bulletin, and of requesting the views of some of the Board's economic 
consultants before publication. 
In response to a suggestion that the staff prepare two outlines 
for the Board's consideration, one for a shorter and technical treatment 
and the other for a broader approach, some sentiment was expressed for 
moving ahead promptly with one or the other approach. Accordingly, it 
was agreed that the staff would revise the present draft, retitling it, 
rewriting the statement of purpose, and shortening it somewhat. The 
draft would then be submitted for the Board's further consideration. 
Georgia Railroad Bank & Trust Company. The Board authorized 
the issuance of orders reflecting approval on October 22, 1970, of the 
applications of Georgia Railroad Bank & Trust Company, Augusta, Georgia, 
to merge Metropolitan State Bank, Augusta, Georgia, and Richmond County 
Bank, also of Augusta. Copies of the orders are attached as Items 1 
and 2, respectively. 

2 ® 5 5 
10/27/70 
-5-
Society Corporation. After review of relevant documentation, 
the Board unanimously approved the application of Society Corporation, 
Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire shares of Tri-County National Bank, Fostoria, 
Ohio, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy is attached as I tern No. 3. 
Bank of America. In a memorandum dated October 12, 1970, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, 
San Francisco, California, for permission to organize an additional 
Edge corporation to be known as Bank of America International of Florida, 
to be located in Dade County, Florida. The applicant at present was 
authorized to have three Edge corporations, located in New York, San 
Francisco, and Chicago. 
Governor Brimmer said that although he would support the present 
application, he continued to be concerned, as he had stated at the 
meeting on August 20, 1970, about multiple Edge corporations. He 
thought the Board should take the view that it would be proper for a 
bank to have a small number of Edge corporations outside its head office 
territory, to be located in principal foreign trade areas, but that it 
would not be proper to have more than one corporation in any one section 
of the country. Thus he had dissented from the action allowing First 
National City Bank, New York, New York, to have an Edge corporation in 
Los Angeles as well as one in San Francisco. 

2 9 5 6 
10/27/70 
-6-
Governor Robertson said he would not vote to approve the present 
application. He believed that trouble would result if banks were per-
mitted to establish an Edge corporation in every section of the country. 
Such corporations in effect would be branches, and he did not believe 
that the Edge Act was intended to allow such a result. Applications 
should be evaluated in this over-all context even if in particular 
cases it seemed that the proposals might increase competition. He did 
not see the need for Bank of America to have an Edge corporation in 
Florida, and he advised caution lest the Board find itself in a position 
where, having approved one or more such applications, its ability to 
deny others might be prejudiced. Applications should be probed care-
fully for any indication that the purpose was to promote not only foreign 
but also domestic business. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that the primary questions 
were whether the proposed corporation would in fact seek to promote 
foreign business or whether it was a vehicle for promoting domestic 
business; whether the proliferation of Edge corporations by a single 
bank was consistent with sound banking practices; and whether the 
proposed corporation would promote competition among banks in the 
foreign area. If no problems were found within those questions, he 
did not see that the Board should substitute its judgment for that of 
bank management. 

Z H 5 7 
10/27/70 
-7-
Governor Brimmer commented that his position on the California 
case also had been based on the thrust of the statute; he understood 
the law to say that Edge corporations could be established only to 
promote foreign trade. The staff's memorandum had cast some doubt as 
to whether that was the case. 
Governor Maisel observed that the majority of the Board had 
been guided by the fact that section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
does not restrict the number of Edge corporations an individual bank 
may establish, or the geographic locations of those corporations. It 
only restricts the type of business that may be done by such corporations. 
Mr. Frederic Solomon pointed out that section 25(a) implies 
(but does not state) that an Edge corporation is not to have domestic 
branches. He believed that the Board would be acting within its 
authority if it ruled that approving multiple Edge corporations would 
be tantamount to approving domestic branches of Edge corporations. 
After further discussion of the issues that had been raised, 
the application of Bank of America to establish an Edge corporation in 
Dade County, Florida, was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. A 
copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
"Block-positioning". The Divisions of Supervision and Regula-
tion and Research and Statistics, in a memorandum dated October 2, 
1970, recommended publication for comment of an amendment to Regulation U, 
Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks, 

Z358 
10/27/70 
-8-
to provide an exemption for credit extended by banks to "block-position-
ing" firms. Block-positioners are securities firms that stand ready to 
position substantial blocks of stock in order to facilitate the sale or 
purchase by their customers of quantities of stock too large to be 
absorbed by ordinary market trading mechanisms. 
The proposed exemption would parallel a proposal published for 
comment in May 1969 to exempt from margin requirements bank credit 
extended to so-called "third-market makers" to enable them to carry 
out their market-making activity. Industry comments on that proposal 
had been favorable, but it had been urged that a parallel exemption 
be granted at the same time for the block-positioners. 
Implementation 
of the third-market maker proposal had been postponed pending study of 
the use of credit in the block-positioning function. 
The staff also recommended that existing exemptions and the 
proposed third-market exemption be amended in such a way as to make 
the credit extended for positioning blocks in the amounts specified 
subject to the requirements of the proposed block-positioning exemption. 
The several proposed amendments were reflected in a draft of Federal 
Register notice attached to the October 2 memorandum. The staff pro-
posed that reporting requirements, which would have to be imposed by 
rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission, call for sufficient 
detail to enable the Commission to check for abuses. 

10/27/70 
-9-
Neither of the proposed exemptions could be implemented without 
the agreement of and cooperation by the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion. Thus far, the Commission itself had not formally considered 
either the third-market or the block-positioner proposal, and had not 
proposed a rule to implement the registration and record-keeping 
requirements of the third-market proposal. It did not seem likely 
that the Commission's staff would submit draft rules to the Commission 
unless the Commission itself directed it to do so. Although the 
Commission's staff had been cooperative in working out the proposals, 
it preferred to wait for analysis of the results of the Institutional 
Investor Study before adopting any credit exemption. It was antici-
pated that the study would be completed early in 1971, and that, if the 
Board decided to await the publication of the study, the time necessary 
for subsequent procedures would mean that the exemptions might not be 
operative until the end of 1971. The Board's staff believed that the 
risks of leaving the market without a credit exemption that considerable 
study had indicated to be justified, in a period when volume of trading 
might again be rising and brokerage capital might again be strained by 
recurring back office problems, outweighed any potential advantages to 
be gained from waiting for completion of the Institutional Investor 
Study. 
Discussion indicated a predominant view that it would not be 
desirable for the Board to publish the proposals for comment unless the 

2 9 6 0 
10/27/70 
-10-
Securities and Exchange Commission was prepared to take the necessary 
related actions. (Governor Maisel, however, advocated that the Board 
push ahead with the proposals, which he regarded as a policy question 
for the Federal Reserve.) It was understood that an informal personal 
approach would be made to Commission members to indicate the Board's 
general sympathy with the proposals but it was also agreed that it 
would be desirable for Chairman Burns to write directly to the Chairman 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the sending of a 
letter in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Employee loan fund. The Board unanimously approved a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta approving an increase from 
$15,000 to $50,000 in the total amount of emergency loans the Bank 
might make to its employees. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1 
Item No. I 
10/27/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
GEORGIA RAILROAD BANK & TRUST COMPANY, 
Augusta, Georgia, 
for approval of merger with 
Metropolitan State Bank, 
Augusta, Georgia. 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by 
Georgia Railroad Bank & Trust Company, Augusta, Georgia ("Applicant"), 
a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's 
prior approval of the merger of that bank and Metropolitan State 
Bank, Augusta, Georgia ("Metropolitan Bank"), under the charter 
and name of Georgia Railroad Bank & Trust Company. As an incident 
to the merger Metropolitan Bank would become a branch office of 
'Applicant under Georgia law effective January 1, 1971. Notice of 
the proposed merger, in the form approved by the Board, has been 
published as required by said Act. 
Pursuant to the Act, the Board requested reports on the 
competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the 
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 

-2-
Corporation. The Board has considered all relevant material 
contained in the record in the light of the factors set forth in 
the Act, including the effect of the proposal on competition, the 
financial and managerial resources and prospects of the banks con-
cerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served, and finds that: 
Applicant, with deposits of $133 million, is the fifth 
largest bank in Georgia, having about 2 per cent of the commercial 
bank deposits in the State. (All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1969.) Metropolitan Bank has deposits of about 
$4 million; consequently, consummation of the proposed merger would 
not increase substantially the concentration of banking resources 
in the State of Georgia. 
Applicant maintains six offices, all located in or around 
Augusta in Richmond County. Metropolitan Bank maintains its sole 
office in Richmond County. Applicant and Metropolitan Bank hold, 
respectively, about 49 per cent and 1.5 per cent of Richmond County 
deposits. The closest office of Applicant to Metropolitan Bank is 
approximately four miles distant. There are, however, alternative 
banking facilities located in the area which intervenes between 
the offices of Applicant and Metropolitan Bank. 
Applicant was instrumental in organizing Metropolitan Bank, 
which obtained its charter in 1963. The merging banks have been 
closely associated since that time by virtue of common shareholders. 

-3-
Applicant has provided Metropolitan Bank with various officers and 
employees, including chief executive officers, for the purpose of 
assisting Metropolitan Bank in providing services to its customers 
since it opened. Metropolitan Bank has relied to a substantial extent 
on Applicant in its operation. Applicant is Metropolitan Bank's principal 
correspondent bank; it assists Metropolitan Bank with investments, advises 
on loan applications, handles Metropolitan Bank's money supply and com-
puter operations, and has solicited customers for Metropolitan Bank's 
credit card program. There is no indication that the close relationship 
which exists between Applicant and Metropolitan Bank is likely to change 
in the foreseeable future, regardless of the Board's action with respect 
to the present application. In view of the close relationship which has 
existed between Applicant and Metropolitan Bank, it may be reasonably 
concluded that present and potential competition would neither be fore-
closed by approval of the application, nor encouraged by its denial. 
It does not appear that competition with and between other banks in 
Richmond County would be affected in any significant way. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposal would 
not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. Con-
summation of the merger would provide customers of Metropolitan Bank 
with more convenient access to certain banking services which are not 
now being offered by Metropolitan Bank. Based upon the foregoing, it 
is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal would be in 
the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 

-4-
2 9 6 4 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the merger so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before January 1, 1971, or (b) later than three months after 
the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 27, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

2 9 6 5 
Item No. 2 
10/27/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
GEORGIA RAILROAD BANK & TRUST COMPANY, 
1 
Augusta, Georgia, 
' 
for approval of merger with 
' 
Richmond County Bank, 
' 
Augusta, Georgia. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by 
Georgia Railroad Bank & Trust Company, Augusta, Georgia ("Applicant"), 
a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's 
prior approval of the merger of that bank and Richmond County Bank, 
Augusta, Georgia ("Richmond Bank"), under the charter and name of 
Georgia Railroad Bank & Trust Company. As an incident to the merger 
the two offices of Richmond Bank would become branches of Applicant 
under Georgia law effective January 1, 1971. Notice of the proposed 
merger, in the form approved by the Board, has been published as 
required by said Act. 
Pursuant to the Act, the Board requested reports on the 
competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 

2 9 6 6 
-2-
of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, The 
Board has considered all relevant material contained in the record 
in the light of the factors set forth in the Act, including the effect 
of the proposal on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
and prospects of the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, with deposits of $133 million, is the fifth 
largest bank in Georgia, having about 2 per cent of the commercial 
bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 
1969.) Richmond Bank has deposits of about $6 million; consequently, 
consummation of the proposed merger would not increase substantially 
the concentration of banking resources in the State of Georgia. 
Applicant maintains six offices, all located in or around 
Augusta in Richmond County. Richmond Bank maintains its two offices 
in Richmond County. Applicant and Richmond Bank hold, respectively, 
about 49 per cent and 2 per cent of Richmond County deposits. The 
closest offices of the merging banks are approximately three miles 
apart. There are, however, alternative banking facilities located 
in the areas which intervene between the offices of Applicant and 
Richmond Bank. 
Applicant was instrumental in organizing Richmond Bank which 
obtained its charter in 1955. The merging banks have been affiliated 
by reason of common ownership since 1958. Applicant has provided 
Richmond Bank with various officers and employees, including chief 

2 9 6 7 
-4-
executive officers, for the purpose of assisting Richmond Bank in pro-
viding services to its customers since it opened. Moreover, Richmond Bank 
has relied to a substantial extent on Applicant in its operation. Appli-
cant is Richmond Bank's principal correspondent bank; it assists Richmond 
Bank with investments, advises on loan applications, handles Richmond 
Bank's money supply and computer operations, and has solicited customers 
for Richmond Bank's credit card program. There is no indication that 
the close relationship which exists between Applicant and Richmond Bank 
is likely to change in the foreseeable future, regardless of the Board's 
action with respect to the present application. In view of the close re-
lationship which has existed between Applicant and Richmond Bank, it may 
be reasonably concluded that present and potential competition would neither 
be foreclosed by approval of the application, nor encouraged by its denial. 
It does not appear that competition with and between other banks in 
Richmond County would be affected in any significant way. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposal would not 
have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. Consummation 
of the merger would provide customers of Richmond Bank with more convenient 
access to certain banking services.which are not now being offered by 
Richmond Bank. Based upon the foregoing, it is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposal would be in the public interest, and 
that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided 
that the merger so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 

2 9 6 8 
-4-
January 1, 1971, or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 27, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

2 9 6 9 
Item No. 3 
10/27/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SOCIETY CORPORATION, 
Cleveland, Ohio, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 
per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Tri-County National Bank, Fostoria, 
Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Society Corporation, Cleveland, 
Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Tri-County National Bank, Fostoria, Ohio ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller offered no 
objection to approval of the application. 

-4-
2 9 7 0 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 15, 1S70 .(35 Federal Register 14485), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and mana-
gerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest bank holding company and the 
fourth largest banking organization in Ohio, controls eight banks with 
aggregate deposits of $985 million, representing 4.8 per cent of the 
commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1969, and reflect holding company actions approved by 
the Board to date.) Upon acquisition of Bank ($40.1 million deposits), 
Applicant would control 5.0 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
in the State; its position relative to other banking organizations and 
. holding companies would remain the same. 
Bank is headquartered in Fostoria, 100 miles southwest of 
Cleveland, and operates nine offices in three counties: five offices 
in Seneca, three offices in Wood, and one office in Hancock. Under 

2 < J 7 1 
-4-
Ohio law, a bank may branch in the county in which its main office 
is located. Since the corporate limits of Fostoria extend into 
three counties, Bank may establish branches in each of the counties. 
In that three county area, Bank is the third largest of 23 banks, and 
controls 10.1 per cent of the area deposits. Applicant's closest 
subsidiary to bank has a branch office in Sandusky County, 18 miles 
east of one of Bank's branches in Wood County, and neither it nor any 
other of Applicant's present subsidiaries compete with Bank to a 
significant extent. Nor does it appear likely that such competition 
would develop because of the distances between Applicant's present 
subsidiaries and Bank; furthermore, under Ohio law, none of Applicant's 
present subsidiaries can establish branches in any of the counties 
served by Bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on compe-
tition in any relevant area. The banking factors, as they relate 
to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are regarded as consistent 
with approval. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
of the communitites to be served lend weight in support of approval; 
Applicant proposes to expand many of Bank's present services and to 
make trust and international services available through Applicant's 
largest subsidiary, in Cleveland. It is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 

2 9 7 2 
- 4 -
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 27, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, iiaisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

•f^LRESf:-
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
2 9 7 3 
Item No. 4 
10/27/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 27, 1970 
Mr. C. M. van Vlierden, 
Executive Vice President, 
Bank, of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
Bank of America Center, 
San Francisco, California. 94104 
Dear Mr. van Vlierden: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated August 27, 
1970, of Bank of America International of Florida, and there is 
enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation to 
exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its or-
ganization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the presi-
dent, treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the 
directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the 
United States; (2) thac a majority of the shares of capital stock 
is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations 
the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States, chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State 
of the United States, or by firms or companies the controlling in-
terest in which is owned by citizens of the United States; and 
(3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in the Articles 
of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and 
that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 25 per 
cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer or secre-
tary shall certify to the payment of the regaining instalments as 
and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 

2 9 7 4 
Mr. C. M. van Vlierden 
-2-
Your attention is directed to the fact that Bank of 
America International of Florida will have no separate base under 
the foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or in-
vestments will need to be made under the ceiling of Bank of America 
National Trust and Savings Association and its subsidiaries. 
Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the understanding 
that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending 
and investment activities of your bank and its subsidiaries and 
that due consideration will be given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
October 27, 1970 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated August 27, 1970, of BANK OF AMERICA INTERNATIONAL OF FLORIDA 
duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that BANK OF AMERICA 
INTERNATIONAL OF FLORIDA is authorized to exercise such of the 
powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental 
and preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
i 
of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
By (SEAL) (Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2 9 7 6 
Item No. 27 
10/27/70 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
November 9, 1970 
The Honorable Hamer Budge, Chairman 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
500 North Capitol Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20549 
Dear Hamer: 
The Board of Governors believes that it would be beneficial to the 
securities markets if bank credit were made available to so-called 
"block positioning" firms under an exemption from the normal margin 
requirements o£ the Board's Regulation U, "Credit by Banks for the 
Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks." We are defining 
block-positioners as those firms that stand ready to position sub-
stantial blocks of stock in order to facilitate the sale or purchase 
by their customers of quantities of stock too large to be absorbed 
by ordinary market trading mechanisms. 
After considering an extensive staff study of the subject, the Board 
has concluded that block positioners add significant and valuable 
liquidity to the securities market, that they lend a stabilizing 
influence to the market and, therefore, that credit used in the block 
positioning function does not tend to have a destabilizing effect. 
The Board has also concluded that it would be highly desirable for 
such an exemption to be made effective at the earliest possible time, 
compatible with due consideration and an appropriate opportunity for 
public comment. The Board has arrived at this conclusion in light 
of its assessment of current economic and financial market conditions 
and the continuing increase in the volume of institutional trading 
in large blocks. 
The Board recognizes that certain changes in the structure of the 
securities markets may result from the findings of the Institutional 
Investor Study now being completed by the Commission and that these 
changes may at some future time imply the need for conforming 
modification in margin regulations. Amendments in margin regulations 
might be postponed until these changes have been formulated, proposed, 
debated, and introduced. However, the Board believes that in view of 
its responsibilities under section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
^
^ 
The Honorable Hamer Budge 
-2-
of 1934, it should adapt margin regulations to evolving credit needs 
of the securities markets as these needs arise. Because of new 
market-making patterns that have already developed in exchange and 
off-exchange markets through the active growth of third market and 
block positioning activities, the Board considers that there is a 
need for prompt availability of exempted credit to finance these 
activities. 
The Board is aware that availability of exempt block positioning 
credit could be abused to the extent that it was used by firms to 
position stock for investment purposes. Exempt credit is already 
available to specialists on the exchange and to OTC market makers, 
under existing provisions of the Board's margin regulations, to 
position blocks of stock in which the firms are registered. 
Availability of exempt credit to the Third market makers (under 
a proposal published by the Board for comment on May 15, 1969), 
and to block positioning firms, would increase the potential for 
abuse if the exemptions were not carefully framed and their 
utilization subject to appropriate supervision. Accordingly, 
the proposed exemptions would be accompanied by certain controls, 
including a net capital requirement, a minimum size of block to-
be positioned, a time limit for which the credit would be available, 
and a reporting requirement. These controls would apply to credit 
used to position blocks by all market maker firms, whether special-
ists, OTC market makers, Third market makers, or block-positioners. 
Your Division of Trading and Markets has worked closely with the 
Board's staff in developing the proposed controls, and the Board 
appreciates the cooperation your staff has provided in bringing 
these proposals to the point of being ready to be published for 
cosiment. However, since the Commission is the agency of the 
government entrusted with primary responsibility for supervision 
of broker/dealers, and the enforcement of margin regulations, 
the proposals cannot be effectuated without serious risk of abuse 
unless your Commission simultaneously adopts rules imposing 
appropriate registration and record-keeping requirements on • 
firms that would be entitled to the new exemptions. 
Accordingly, the Board would appreciate being advised as to your 
Commission's willingness to proceed with the formulation and 
publication for comment of rules implementing the supervision 
and enforcement aspects of the proposed Third market maker and 
block-positioner provisions of Regulation U. Copies of drafts 
of language to be published by the Board in the Federal Register 
regarding these provisions have already been supplied to the 

H O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
The Honorable Haraer Budge 
-3-
' 
s 
. 
•• 
> 
staff of your Division of Trading and Markets, and copies of 
revised draft, prepared in accordance with further comments 
furnished by your staff, are enclosed herewith. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

a . v 
f ^ L R t s f : - ' 
2 9 7 9 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
10/27/70 
a d d r e s s 
o f f i c i a l 
c o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 27, 1970 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 30303 
... 
-A 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
• 'fi
As requested in your letter of September 23, the 
Board of Governors has approved an increase in the Bank's 
employee loan fund limit from $15,000 to $50,000 with the 
understanding that: 
(1) the additional Bank funds will be 
used only to make short-term loans to employees transferred 
to the Miami office for the purpose of facilitating the pur-
chase of a house in the Miami area before settlement is 
completed on the sale of the employee's present house; (2) 
the $50,000 limit will revert back to $15,000 upon the 
repayment of such loans, or to a revised limit, if any, 
established as a result of the current study of Reserve 
Bank employee loan funds by the Conference of Presidents; 
and (3) in the event that neither of the preceding in (2) 
occurs, the continuation of the $50,000 limit will be 
reviewed in one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
" ' 
' 
' " ' 
" 
• ' 
: 
'I 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
1 
