' V 'i! : 
s S S 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 23, 1968 
•vft-
^•ffi" 
1 !,•',•'."; 

1487 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tem on Tuesday, April 23, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
i ; 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Examina-
tions 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Exami-
nations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Porter of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Fry and Shull, and Miss Ormsby of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 

1 4 8 8 
4/23/68 
-12-
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Higgins, Pflueger, and Veenstra of the 
Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Black, First Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond 
Marine Midland. On April 15, 1968, the Board considered, 
but did not act upon, an application by Marine Midland International 
Corporation, New York, New York, the essential features of which were 
as follows. The parent Marine Midland Corporation, a bank holding 
company, would capitalize through its Edge subsidiary, Marine Midland 
International Corporation, a Delaware corporation to be known as Marine 
Midland Overseas Corporation. Capitalization would consist of $2.5 
m
illion in foreign assets transferred from Marine Midland International 
Plus $5.5 million in cash. Marine Midland Overseas Corporation would 
borrow $10 million from European financial institutions to finance 
e
quity investments of $8 million in a French bank and a French Finance 
company, the borrowing to be at intermediate term with the guarantee 
°f Marine Midland Corporation. It also would issue in the European 
m
arket $30 million of debentures convertible into stock of Marine 
Midland Corporation. From the proceeds of the sale of the debentures 
would repay the $10 million borrowing and undertake investments in 
Western Europe. It was also requested that Marine Midland Overseas 
C o r
Poration be defined as a nonbank financial institution from purposes 
the foreign credit restraint program. 

1489 
4/23/68 
-12-
In a memorandum dated April 11, 1968, the Division of Exami-
nations recommended that the application be approved. In another memo-
randum, also dated April 11, Mr. Sammons recommended that the applica-
tion be approved subject to the understanding that any foreign assets 
of Marine Midland Overseas Corporation in excess of the foreign 
borrowings outlined in the application would be counted for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint program against the consolidated ceiling 
established for Marine Midland International Corporation and Marine 
Midland Trust Company of Western New York. He further recommended that 
the Board consider on their merits any similar applications that might 
b e
 received from other banks or bank holding companies, that full infor-
m a
tion regarding the nature of any foreign borrowing so credited be 
furnished to the Federal Reserve Banks upon request, and that any 
borrowing that seemed clearly to have been a substitute for funds that 
w
°uld have been placed with the parent bank as deposits in any event 
n
°t be considered a valid offset to the foreign assets of the reporter. 
Sammons suggested that the request for treatment of Marine Midland 
0v
°rseas Corporation as a nonbank financial institution be denied. 
In a memorandum dated April 22, Governor Robertson recommended 
^ a t the Board approve the proposed investments in the French bank 
the French finance company, solely on the ground that commitments 
g y j 
1
8ted prior to January 1, 1968. He also recommended that the Board 
a
PProve the formation of the Delaware corporation (Marine Midland Overseas 

1430 
4/23/68 
-12-
Corporation), but with the understanding that any foreign assets of 
that corporation would count against the established foreign credit 
. I 
restraint program ceiling unless financed by foreign borrowing under 
the following conditions: 
(a) the borrowing was done at a maturity 
of three years or longer, and (b) the borrowing was done without the 
guarantee of a U.S. financial institution subject to the Federal Reserve 
'1 ' -w 
guidelines. 
In discussion of the matter, Governor Robertson said he believed 
that imposition of conditions such as he recommended would foreclose 
an evasive device that would almost certainly be used by others if the 
°PP0rtunity was available. He thought that actually such conditions 
should be applied to borrowing by offshore subsidiaries. However, that 
would constitute a new position that the Board should think through 
!> <> 
;
 •• W
 1
 ' ' 
carefully. 
In response to questions, Mr. Sammons said that he saw no serious 
Ejection to the first of the two conditions recommended by Governor 
Robertson, and Mr. Dahl indicated that his only reservation related to 
t
he fact that there was no similar requirement applicable to offshore 
h i ! 
subsidiaries. Mr. Sammons felt that inclusion of the second condition 
Proposed by Governor Robertson would be tantamount to denial of the 
a
Pplication, since the offering of a guarantee probably would be essen-
t i a
l , and Mr. Dahl agreed. 

% $ t 
m 
149 1 
4/23/68 
-5-
The other Board members then addressed themselves to the 
matter. A majority accepted as appropriate the first of the two condi-
tions suggested by Governor Robertson, but they agreed with the staff 
that a prohibition against the use of a guarantee would be too harsh. 
• AVI ;> , ; . 
Governor Brimmer said it appeared to him that the basic consid-
Nation involved here was that the Board had taken the position, effec-
tive the first of this year, that normally it would not approve further 
investments in continental Western Europe. He believed it would be a 
mistake to allow Marine Midland to establish the Delaware subsidiary 
i> *.' • • • 
in order to make foreign investments in a way that would escape the 
Purview of the foreign credit restraint program, even with the three-
year maturity requirement. He agreed that institutions should be 
Permitted to honor prior commitments, and for that reason he would be 
wii i •? 
i i : L
ng to approve the two proposed French investments, but he would 
n t
 to count them against the Marine Midland ceiling. In any event, 
e
 beli e v e (j Marine Midland should be informed that it was highly 
u
nlikely that the Board would approve equity investments in continental 
Q « 
e r
n Europe out of the $30 million proposed to be raised by the 
V.V: , {fnijM 
Delaware subsidiary. 
After further discussion the Board approved a letter to Marine 
Midi 
a
nd International Corporation in the form attached as Item No. 1, 
Governn « 
nor Brimmer dissenting in part for the reasons he had mentioned. 
: v 

1492 
4/23/68 
-12-
It was understood that the problem relating to offshore subsidiaries 
would be studied further by the staff and considered later by the 
Board. 
Amendments to Regulation D. After discussion on January 25, 
a 
j 
y 
1968, the Board had published for comment proposed amendments to 
Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, that would provide for (1) 
establishment of coincident one-week reserve periods for reserve 
i? C O 
city and country banks; (2) calculation of weekly average required 
reserves based on average deposits two weeks earlier; (3) calculation 
°f weekly average reserves held in satisfaction of requirements based 
on average vault cash held two weeks earlier; and (4) carrying forward 
to the next reserve week of either excesses or deficiencies averaging 
v .-
U
P to two per cent of required reserves. 
T V* '
 !
 i V 
In a memorandum dated April 18, 1968, the Division of Research 
a
nd Statistics commented on views expressed on the so-called lagged 
reserve proposal. In the opinion of the staff the comments received 
^id n 0t o n balance point to a need for significant changes in the 
Proposal, although it was not completely clear to what extent the program 
w
°uld serve to smooth out money market swings and bank reserve adjustment 
Problems. There did appear to be some basis for the concern expressed 
that reserve adjustments would be more difficult for relatively small 
b a n k s
 with highly volatile deposits. The staff felt that banks would 
successfully after some uncertainties in the transition period, 
m 
adapt 

11$3 
4/23/68 
-7-
but that bank reserve management would have to be observed carefully 
once the plan was put into effect to see whether moderation of some 
money market pressures was not being replaced by others. One way of 
relieving pressures on smaller banks with volatile deposits would be 
to retain a two-week reserve period for country banks, which would 
have both advantages and disadvantages. Should the lagged reserve 
Proposal be approved by the Board, implementation in late summer was 
recommended. 
In discussion of the matter, Governor Sherrill reported that 
a
 number of small bankers with whom he had talked were concerned about 
a
bandoning the two-week reserve period. He believed consideration 
m i
ght be given to raising the permissible carryover for country banks 
t o
 5 per cent. 
Governor Maisel suggested, as an alternative, that country 
banks might be given the option of either a 2 per cent carryover or 
a d
o l l a r amount carryover, say up to $30,000 or $50,000. Another possi-
bility would be to give country banks a choice of remaining on the old 
S y s t e m
 °f settlement for a year. 
During the general discussion that followed, Mr. Black described 
reasons underlying the recommendation for a one-week settlement 
period f 
tor all banks, including the benefits hoped to be derived from 
standpoint of gauging monetary policy. Although a 5 per cent 

1494 
4/23/68 
-12-
carryover would be helpful from the point of view of country banks, 
it might contribute to a little more slippage in monetary policy, and 
he would be inclined to prefer something of the nature Governor Maisel 
had suggested. 
Mr. Holland reported that in the view of the Trading Desk the 
program must be looked upon as a package, each element of which would 
hopefully provide some benefit. Only a relatively small number of 
banks apparently would encounter serious problems because of the 
change to a one-week settlement, and if the 2 per cent carryover was 
not sufficient to resolve those problems the banks presumably would 
be entitled to relief through the discount window. As to the feasibility 
permitting banks to settle at one or two-week periods according to 
their preference, he mentioned statistical difficulties that might be 
involved. 
Governor Brimmer said he continued to be unimpressed with the 
Proposed program. He judged it was going to be adopted, however; the 
s
taff hacj expressed reservations but had not recommended adversely. He 
a s
sumed that banks experiencing difficulty because of the volatile nature 
their deposits could have recourse to the discount window, and it 
S e
emed to him that the arrangement would merely be further complicated 
* a je . 
additional options were introduced. 
After further consideration of the possible modifications that 
been mentioned, Chairman Martin proposed that the program be approved 

10 
4/23/68 
-12-
as submitted, subject to reappraisal in the light of experience, say 
at the end of six months. At present, he pointed out, it was diffi-
cult to weigh all of the pros and cons because of the lack of an exper-
ience record. Governor Mitchell agreed and noted that the proposal was 
the product of research within the System over an extended period of 
time. 
Accordingly, the proposed amendments to Regulation D were 
SBBroved unanimously, effective September 12, 1968. A copy of the 
amendments, in Federal Register form, is attached as Item No. 2. and 
a copy of the press release issued is attached as Item No. 3. 
Mr. Black withdrew at this point, as did a number of Board 
s t
aff members. 
Discount study. The Final Report of the Steering Committee 
the Fundamental Reappraisal of the Discount Mechanism had been 
S e
nt to the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents on March 28, 1968, with a 
r e
quest for overall reactions and suggestions on publication. A memo-
r a
ndum from Governor Mitchell dated April 18 commented on the replies 
r e
ceived. 
f* 
In the discussion at today's meeting, which was concerned 
J-ncipaliy with the question of publication, Governor Mitchell reported 
Committee's view that banker reaction was needed at this stage, 
specially with regard to the basic borrowing privilege recommended 

1496 
4/23/68 
-12-
in the report. The Committee was uncertain just where the limitations 
should fall; if they were placed too high, the efficiency of monetary 
management might be jeopardized, while if they were placed too low the 
borrowing privilege might not be particularly useful. The problem 
with respect to release of the report was that if it was made avail-
able to banker or other special groups it would almost be necessary 
to supply the report to anyone who asked for it. His recommendation 
was to issue a press statement announcing completion of the report and 
to make the report available to banker groups and, on request, also 
to academicians and others. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the Board might then contact 
banker groups to obtain their reactions and schedule a meeting with 
the Reserve Bank Presidents in June. It should be possible, he felt, 
t o
 Publish for comment some time this summer a revision of Regulation A, 
Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve Banks. A draft was now 
Mailable, but it should not be published until the Board had obtained 
factions to the recommendations in the report on the discount study. 
Governor Mitchell did not feel that the issuance of the Steering 
Committee report would commit the Board or the System. Until the Board 
p u
bli Sh ed a draft of revised Regulation A, it would not have established 
Position publicly, and even then the position would be only tentative, 
not think that the issues remaining at this time could be settled 

1497 
4/23/68 
-12-
through internal review and debate, and instead that it would be 
necessary to go outside. 
Governor Brimmer noted that as yet there had been no system-
atic presentation of the study's contents to the Board. He visualized 
that such a review could be completed about the middle of May, and 
that in June there could be a full review by the Board and the Presi-
dents, after which a document could be made available to the public • 
for comment. 
Several Board members spoke in favor of a program such as 
Governor Mitchell had outlined. However, Governor Robertson expressed 
the view that there were certain defects in the report that could result 
l n
 P
r
°blems if the report was circulated. He then cited a number of 
Passages and reiterated his opinion that the report should not be made 
Pnblic until a better understanding had been reached within the System, 
G V e n
 though he regarded the basic principles as worthyof support. 
Governor Mitchell noted that the report was a finished document 
a s
 far as the Steering Committee was concerned and that it would no 
longer be the report of the Committee if it was changed by others. There 
f
°Uowed some debate with regard to the treatment in the report of lack 
o f
 uniformity in the administration of the discount window, and Governor 
Bfi 
T n m e r
 suggested that this argued in favor of having a comprehensive 
r e v
iew with the Presidents before the report was made public. 

1498 
4/23/68 
-12-
Governor Mitchell noted that some of the points raised by 
Governor Robertson might be resolved through language changes, which 
could be accomplished quite easily by the Committee. In fact, the 
Committee had delegated to its staff the authority to make editorial 
changes. 
A w . •; 
Chairman Martin then remarked that it would seem helpful to 
see what could be done to meet Governor Robertson's points without 
distorting the basic framework of the report. The fundamental question, 
he thought, was what procedure would commit the Board least. In his 
own view the Board would be much more committed if the report was 
Published after thorough review within the System, and he did not 
believe a System review was practicable without having the benefit of 
outside comments. 
Governor Brimmer again presented arguments in favor of a calendar 
such as he had outlined earlier, while Governor Mitchell and several 
other Board members restated reasons they saw for proceeding in the 
tanner Governor Mitchell had recommended. 
The discussion was not conclusive, and it was agreed only that 
Portions of the report would be reviewed by the Steering Committee in 
the light of the questions Governor Robertson had raised, after which 
n e
 Board would consider further the question of release of the report. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
VtWr 
; 

±WJ 
4/23/68 
-13-
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson today 
approved on behalf of the Board the following 
items: 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
ointments 
William E. Conrad as Summer Research Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $8,084, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
4y 
.::•-• 
David Hyman as Summer Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $8,534, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Jeremy J. Siegel as Summer Research Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $7,409, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Robert N. Miller as Summer Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,764, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Transfer 
Mildred C. Harris, Charwoman, Division of Administrative Services, 
from a part-time to a full-time position, with basic annual salary at the 
r
ate of $4,154, effective April 29, 1968. 
On April 23, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 
B
V the Acting Director of the 
^Hjsion of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
4 
a
PProving the appointment of James A. Piskos 
a s
 examiner. 

4/23/68 
-14-
By the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion regarding the application of Seaside Bank, 
Westhampton Beach, New York, for continuation 
of deposit insurance after withdrawal from mem-
bership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania, approving the establishment of a branch in 
the vicinity of the intersection of Girard and 
Lancaster Avenues. 
By the Director of the Division 
of. Bank Operations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
approving a change in the classification of 
member banks in the Fourth Federal Reserve Dis-
trict for the purpose of electing Class A and 
Class B directors. 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company, 
Summit, New Jersey, approving the establishment 
an in-town branch. 
_the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, granting an extension of time 
w
ithin which to establish a branch in Goldsboro. 
-^L_the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
better to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, granting an extension of time within 
w
hich to establish a branch in Goleta. 

1501 
4/23/68 
-15-
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Item No. 
,. , 
• - —— ———________________________________—. 
_________ 
Letter to Seattle Trust and Savings Bank, Seattle, 
11 
Washington, rescinding the approval previously 
given for the establishment of a limited service 
office (drive-in facility) in the Crossroads 
Shopping Center, Bellevue, King County, Washington. 

.^OVGOw-V. 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/23/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 23, 1968. 
Marine Midland International Corporation, 
140 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of March 15, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("MMIC") to borrow $5,500,000 from Marine Midland Corpora-
tion for a period in excess of one year, and to purchase and hold 
all of the shares of Marine Midland Overseas Corporation ("MMOC"), 
to be incorporated in Delaware, at a cost of approximately $8,000,000, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. In this connection the Board also approves the pur-
chase and holding of such shares by MMIC in excess of the limita-
tions set forth in the provisions of paragraph 5(c) of Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act and in Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of MMOC by MMIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That MMIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in MMOC if MMOC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permis-
sible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if 
MMOC establishes any branch or agency or takes 
any action or undertakes any operation in the 
United States or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to MMIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
MMIC will cause MMOC (a) to permit examiners 
appointed by the Board of Governors to examine 
MMOC, and (b) to furnish the Board of Governors 
with such reports as it may require from time 
to time; 

1503 
Marine Midland International 
Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
MMOC be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regula-
tion K in the same manner as if MMOC were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
In accordance with your request and on the basis of in-
formation furnished, the Board of Governors grants consent for MMOC 
to issue up to $30,000,000 of 20-year guaranteed sinking fund deben-
tures, which are to be convertible into common stock of Marine Mid-
land Corporation and are to be sold outside the United States. 
The Board grants consent for your wholly-owned subsidiary, 
MMOC, to purchase and hold (1) approximately 20 per cent of the 
shares of Banque 1'Union Europeenne Industrielle et Financiere 
("UE Bank") to be formed in France, at a cost of approximately 
$6 ,000,000 and, (2) approximately 50 per cent of the shares of a 
French financial company ("Financial") to be formed, at a cost of 
approximately $2,000,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. In this connection the 
Board also approves the purchase and holding of such shares by MMOC 
in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in the provisions 
of paragraph 5(c) of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and 
in Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Financial by MMOC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That MMOC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Financial if Financial at 
any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Re-
serve Act could, with the consent of the Board of 
Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if Financial 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any ac-
tion or undertakes any operation in France or 
elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to MMOC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, MMOC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Financial as it may require from 
time to time; and 

Marine Midland International 
Corporation 
-3-
1504 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Financial be reported under Section 211.8(c) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Financial 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as it 
relates to restrictions on loans granted by Financial in France in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisitions, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Res erve Bank of New York, with copies of the Articles of Association 
and By-Laws of MMOC and of Financial. 
The Board has granted these consents in view of the fact 
that the commitments of your organization antedated the balance-of-
payments measures announced January 1, 1968. However, the Board 
is concerned about the possibility that foreign borrowing by banks 
or their affiliates may become a substitute for short-term foreign 
deposits or investments in the United States. Therefore, the fore-
going consents are given on the understanding that for the purpose 
of financing foreign credits or investments outside the ceiling 
established under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program, any foreign 
borrowing undertaken by MMOC shall have a minimum maturity of three 
years. Any foreign assets of MMOC in excess of foreign borrowing 
meeting the stated condition will be counted against the target 
ceiling of MMIC and Marine Midland Trust Company of Western New York. 
As you are aware, it is the Board's policy ordinarily to 
disapprove equity investments by banks and Edge Corporations in 
developed countries of continental Western Europe. The extension 
of thi s policy to equity investments by subsidiaries of such Corpora-
tions, even though financed by foreign borrowings, is under current 
review by the Board. Approvals of equity investments by MMOC, other 
than those herein approved, will be subject to the conclusions reached 
in that review. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1505 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 2 
4/23/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[rie3. D] 
PART 2o4 - RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Computation of Reserve Requirements 
1. Effective September 12, 1968, § 204.3(a) and (b) are 
amended to lead as follows: 
§ 204.3 Deficiencies in reserves. 
(a) Computation of deficiencies. (1) Reserve requirements of 
all member banks shall be determined on the basis of average daily net 
deposit balances and average daily currency and coin covering 7-day com-
putation periods which shall end at the close of business on Wednesday 
each week. 
(2) In determining whether a member bank has maintained a 
reserve balance that is in excess cr less than its required reserve 
balance for any computation period: 
(i) The required reserve balance of such bank shall be 
based upon the average daily net deposit balances held by the member-
bank at the close of business each day during the second computation 
Period prior to the computation period for which the computation is 
made. 
(ii) The reserve balance of such bank shall consist of 
the average daily balance with the Federal Reserve Bank of its District 
beld by the member bank at the close of business of each day during 
'•be computation period for which the computation is made and the average 

daily currency and coin held by the member bank at the close of busi-
ness each day during the second computation period prior to the 
computation period for which the computation is made. 
(3) Any excess or deficiency in a member bank's required 
reserve balance for any computation period, determined as provided in 
subparagraph (2) above, will be carried forward to the next following com 
Putation period to the extent that such excess or deficiency does not 
exceed 2 per cent of such required reserves, except that any portion 
°f such excess or deficiency not orfset in the next period may not be 
cairied forward to additional computation periods. 
(b) Penalties. (1) Deficiencies in reserve balances remaining 
after the application of subparagraph (3) of paragraph (a) above will 
be subject to penalties, assessed monthly on the basis of average daily 
deficiencies during each of the computation periods ending in the 
Preceding calendar month. 
(2) Any such penalty will be assessed at a rate of 2 per cent 
Per annum above the lowest rate applicable to borrowings by each member 
bank from its Federal Tveserve Bank on the first day of the calendar 
roonth in which the deficiencies occurred. 
* 
* 
it 
* 
* 
2a. The purposes of these amendments are (1) to establish 
coincident one-week reserve periods for reserve city and country banks, 
U ) 
to require the calculation of weekly average required reserves on 
the basis of average deposits two weeks earlier, (3) to require the 

calculation of weekly average reserves held in satisfaction of require-
ments on the basis of average vault cash held two week9 earlier, and 
(4) to provide that either an excess or a deficiency in reserve 
requirements averaging up to 2 per cent of required reserves will be 
carried forward to the next reserve week 0 
These changes are expected 
to reduce uncertainties as to the amount of reserves required during 
the course of any reserve period and to moderate seme of the pressures 
for reserve adjustments within the banking system that can occasionally 
develop near the close of a reserve period and can produce sharp 
fluctuations in the availability of day-to-day funds. 
b. To illustrate the operation of the provision for carrying 
°ver a deficiency in reserve requirements (§ 204.3(a)(3)), it will be 
assumed that a member bank's reserve requirement for the week ending 
September 18, 1968, is computed to be $1 million, based on average de-
Posits two weeks earlier. The computation of its reserve balance indi-
cates that it is deficient by 2 per cent—its balance is $980,000 and 
l t
s deficiency amounts to $20,000. In the succeeding reserve period 
ending September 25, the bank must maintain its reserve balance on aver-
s e $20,000 higher than its reserve requirement for the week to avoid 
Penalty. If the reserve requirement remained at $1 million, the reserve 
balance would need to average at least $1.02 million in the week ending 
September 25. 
c. To illustrate the carry over of an excess in reserve 
requirement, it will again be assumed that a member bank's reserve re-
^irement for the week ending September 18, 1968, is $1 million. The 
Computation of its reserve balance indicates that it has an excess of 

't per cent—its balance is $1.04 million. The bank is entitled to 
carry over 2 per cent of its requirements, amounting to $20,000, to the 
R
ext statement week. This $20,000 excess carry over will be applied 
automatically against requirements of the succeeding week ending 
I'i ' • 
September 25, reducing the average reserve balance that must be main-
tained to meet reserve requirements for that week. If the reserve 
requirement remains at $1 million, this bank can meet requirements by 
maintaining average reserve balance at $980,000. To the extent that 
• 
^ e average reserve balance is higher than $980,000 in the week ending 
September 25, the bank foregoes use of part or all of the carry-over 
8 u
rplus from September 18, which cannot be carried forward more than 
reserve period. 
d. Notice of proposed rule making with respect to these 
an
tendments was published in the Federal Register of February 2, 1968 
(33 
F.R. 2532), The Board adopted the amendments as proposed after 
c
°
n
8ideration of all relevant matter that was presented by interested 
Arsons. 
Dated at Washington, D. C„, the 23rd day of April 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SSAl.) 
. t 
i 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
immediate releas< 
Item No. 3 
4/23/68 
April 29, 1968 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
t o d
ay adoption of an amendment to its Regulation D, "Reserves of Member 
B
anks," effecting several changes in the computation of reserve require-
ments by member banks. 
Except for clarification in language, the amendment, to 
become effective September 12, was adopted as proposed by the Board last 
^
a
nuary 29. The changes made by the amendment involve: 
1. establishing a one-week reserve period for the so-called 
"country banks" instead of their present two-week period, 
thus putting them on the same basis now used for reserve 
city banks; 
2. using average deposits two weeks earlier in calculating 
the weekly average required reserves for the present 
period; 
3. using vault cash held two weeks earlier, together with 
average balances at the Federal Reserve Bank for the 
current week, in the computation of weekly average 
reserves held in satisfaction of the requirements; and 
4. providing that either excesses or deficiencies averaging 
up to 2 per cent of required reserves may be carried 
forward to the next reserve week. 
These new rules by which member banks will compute and comply 
System reserve requirements do not represent any change in Federal 
w
it h 

m 
i i i 
1510 
J W 
-2-
' jl. 
Reserve monetary policy, but are alterations in a technical regulation 
and are designed to facilitate more efficient functioning of the reserve 
! t • - ' 
R 
K i 
I' ... 
| A. 
%, 
mechanism. In combination, these changes are expected to reduce un-
certainties, both for member banks and the Federal Reserve, as to the 
amount of reserves required during the course of any reserve period. 
Their adoption should moderate some of the pressures for reserve adjust-
ments within the banking system that can occasionally develop near the 
close of a reserve period and can produce sharp fluctuations in the 
availability of day-to-day funds. 
The text of the amendment in the form that is being forwarded 
publication in the Federal Register is attached. 
- 0 -
.'7 
- > 
, 
• 

o^ov*. 
^ U E S ^ ' 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No, 
4/23/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R 
T O 
T H E 
B P / 
April 24, 1968 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of April 18, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
°f Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of James A. 
Piskos, at present an assistant examiner, as an examiner for 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, effective May 13, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

.of cov/-. 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
4/23/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 25, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of April 19, 1968, con-
cerning the application of Seaside Bank, Westhampton Beach, New 
York, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal from 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations has stated, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors, that there have been no corrective programs urged upon 
the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, 
a
nd there are no programs that the Acting Director would advise be 
incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank to membership in 
the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

of cow •. 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
4/23/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 26, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the establishment of a branch by Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, in the vicinity of the intersection of Girard and 
Lancaster Avenues, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed branch 
will serve the convenience and needs of the community, and that 
establishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. It is understood that plans are progressing 
for the sale of subordinated convertible debentures in the amount of 
$25,000,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

' • f W R E & V 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
4/23/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 24, 1968 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
Pursuant to your letter of April 12, 1968, the 
Director of the Division of Bank Operations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, has changed the 
classification of member banks in the Fourth Federal Reserve 
District, for the purpose of electing Class A and Class B 
Directors, to the following: 
1 
Group 
1 
2 
3 
Banks with Capital and Surplus of 
$6,000,000 or more 
$1,000,000 to $6,000,000 
Less than $1,000,000 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 8 
J r J^: 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
4/23/68 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10045 
A P R 2 3 W 6 8 
Oavln 8pofford, president 
**«alt And Bllsabeth Trust Coapany 
^•ait, tfew Jersey 
Mr. Spoffords 
This refers to your bank's application dated March 13* 
966, requesting peralsslon to establish an auxiliary branch 
1 at the southeast comer of Beeehwood Road and Deforest 
S^nalt, Hew Jersey, to serve as an adjunct to your 
office loeated at Springfield Avenue and Beechvood Road, 
It, Rev Jersey. After reviewing the application In the 
* of the factors enunerated in Section 265.2(f)(1) of the 
Regarding Delegation of Authority issued by the Board of 
*?nors of the Federal Reserve Systen, ve havo concluded that 
r
 explication should be approved. Accordingly, on behalf of 
• Board of Oovernors, the Federal Reserve Bank of few York, 
under delegated authority, approves the establishment by 
r
r
 **nk of an auxiliary branch offloe at the above*aentloned 
***lon, provided the branch is established vlthln one year after 
• Gate of this letter. 
*ct 
shall appreciate your advising us vhen the branch is 
4
 u
* U y established and opened for business giving the effective 
o f
 opening, the naae, if any, by which it will be known, and 
°?flolal postal addrese, including the sip code number. 
tv 
Please acknowledge receipt by signing and returning to us 
*helosed eopy of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
Fred V. Piderit, Jr. 
Vice President 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND 
I t e m 
N o . 
RICHMOND. 
VIRGINIA 
23213 
4/23/68 
April 23, 1960. 
Mr. Ralph K. frailer, 
Ass la tant TUt President, 
ttachovia Bank and Trust Cocpsny, 
Blnston-lalta, Borth Carolina 27102. 
Daar Ralphs 
The Vadaral Rcearve Bank of RiehMOad, on 
behelf of and under authority dalagatod by tha Board 
of Governors of tha Vederel Raaarva Systsw, haa ap-
proved tha application of Wachovia Bank and Trust 
Coopany, ffinston-Sslen, Borth Carolina, for a ons-ysar 
an tana ion of tine within which to establish s branch 
to bo known as tha Barks lay Boulevard Office in the 
vicinity of the proposed Berkeley Shopping Center, 
Oeldsbere, Worth Carolina, the new cxplretlon date 
la June 2, 19(9. 
Flesss sdvlse us when e definite data for 
opening this offlcs has been determined. 
Tours very truly, 
/s/ John L . Nosker 
John t. Meeker, 
Vice President. 

Item No 
4/23/68 
. 1 0 * 5 1 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I B C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
9 4 1 2 0 
> t':t 
•i • • 
April 23, 1968 
I 
Lir. Noriru-n Barker, Jr., 
Executive Vice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California 90054. 
WV-
-1 > J <... 
rv. 
Dear Mr. Barker: 
On behalf of the B<terd of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting\undcr deLefcated authority, 
•-his 3ank h.s approved an extension t*rNovemt>er 25, 1963, 
of the time with^tf^/hichsUnited O^tlfomia Bank mcy 
establish a by^nch officeNin the vicinity of Hollisner 
Avenue iind Storke R.oad in ohe uninoorpora ed L^ea of 
Golota, Santa Barb^rfc County, California. 
This\ extension iy granted in connection with 
the request contained ii^yyour letter dated April 22, 
1963. 
Very truly yours, 
[feigned) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

1
 r
' 1 M 
H 
F n T T t ) A r 
T ? u c n ? o \ r u 
a tvttt- rktn 
ft 
a x r 
^
d 
a A T r i T C i n r v 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
(j ^ '^ilfj f^ANOIICO, OAUTOHNU. 941*0 
Item No. 11 
April 23, 1966 
4/23/68 
9 MA K F M 
m 
1 r •• 
C .1 f ' . I .j - 
' <-) q 
.•Hi TJ 
*J
r
- j. C. Ba illa*geoti, Jr.} P<r##&l«»t, 
Truat and Savings Bank, 
8
°4 Second Avenue, 
battle, Washington 98104. 
Mr. Baillargeon: 
I 
Reference Is made to our letter of April 9, 1968, advising that, 
behalf of the Board of Governors of the federal Reserve System,/ acting 
^ e r delegated authority, thia Bank had approved the establishment by 
^eattl® Trust and Savings Bank of a limited aervice offlc^to be operated 
• a drive-in facility in conjunction with ita CroaaroadaBr^aJ^/15818 
llghth Street, Bellevue, King County, Vai 
At the time ve acted on the aub5ect application, we relief on 
ffl
ct that it had been approved by thbftlvlalon of/Banking, State of 
*"
h l n
8ton, on March 22, 1968, and aaeumtfc that the^Crosaroads Branch, 
J^ch v«8 eatabliahed as s de novo office dm tartober 5, 1962, was still 
t°^ted
 l n a n
 unincorporate<r'areir>f King Cdwfcty. However, we are now 
f
ormed by Supervisor of/ Banking Codper that\the area haa aince been 
Corpora ted. 
' 
"
 
x 
^ 
Underxulings Issued by the ioard of Governors, s branch would 
0 *
st
*bli^fted when s teller's window is operated ln quarters not actually 
joiningr' an exiatlng branch, unlet* there la a paaaageway (such ss s 
^nnel 
Pc
°pert 
*heth 
bridge), under the sole control of the bank, between the two 
, through whimh customers or employees may paaa. The teat la 
t-w
 
l a r
\the bank haa exclusive control over the meens of paaaage between 
th« tvo V f f l c . 
^ 
c 
While we appreciate your deaire to offer better services to 
o ^ r . of your Croaaroada Branch, ln view of the above, and to confirm 
telephone conversation of April 16, 1968, this letter Is intended to 
h'K!** the approval granted In our letter of April 9, 1968, for eatab-
^ ta*«nt of a limited aarvice office ln the CToaaroada Shopping Center. 
t o " U l be glad to conaider the applleatlom farther If It can be conformed 
requirements of the Board. 
tu. 
Supervisor of Banking Cooper is being furnished with a copy of 
l
* Utter. 
Very truly yours, 
(allied) Irwin L. Jenningf 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
