MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 20, 1968 

1103 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, March 20, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
The following items were approved unanimously after considera-
tion of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the respective numbers indicated. 

11C4 
3/20/68 
-2-
Letter to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
Association), New York, New York, approving 
the establishment of a branch in Roadtown, 
Tortola, British Virgin Islands. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Invest-
ment Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to acquisition of the stock of a corpo-
ration to be organized under the laws of Panama, 
tentatively known as Panama Aircraft Leasing S.A. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Invest-
ment Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to the acquisition of additional shares 
of Commercial Credit Corporation (Thailand) Ltd., 
Bangkok, Thailand. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Invest-
ment Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to acquisition of the stock of Citibank 
Finance Sendirian Berhad, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Invest-
ment Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to acquisition of the stock of Philippine 
Finance Company, Makati, Philippines. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
interposing no objection, in connection with the 
Cincinnati Branch building program, to a lease-
Purchase arrangement for certain property. 
Tele gram to the Federal Reserve Banks rescinding 
the Board's letter of March 15, 1968, making 
certain changes in outstanding instructions with 
respect to gold certificate reserves of Federal 
Reserve Banks in light of the repeal of the gold 
reserve requirement. 
Item No. 
In connection with Items 2-5, Governor Brimmer noted that as 
°f the end of February the foreign loans and investments of First National 

3/20/68 
-3-
City Bank and its subsidiaries were in excess of the applicable guide-
line ceiling under the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program. 
Each of the letters, as sent, contained a paragraph considered to be 
suitable in the circumstances. 
With respect to Item No. 6, Governor Mitchell outlined the 
reasons why the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
Plans considered the lease-purchase arrangement to be justified, follow-
ing which Governor Brimmer suggested that a memorandum setting forth 
the details, including cost factors, be prepared for inclusion in the 
record. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Tutwiler Bank, Tutwiler, Mississippi, with Bank of Clarksdale, 
Clarksdale, Mississippi, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
A small amount of existing competition would be eliminated 
upon consummation of the proposed merger of Tutwiler Bank and 
Bank of Clarksdale; the overall effect of the proposed merger 
on competition would be slightly adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of First National Bank of 
Vienna, Vienna, Virginia, with First National Bank of Arlington, Arlington, 
Virginia, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. 
The conclusion read as follows: 

H O G 
3/20/73 
-4-
There is little competition now existing between First 
National Bank of Vienna and First National Bank of Arlington, 
and potential for greater competition is limited. Overall, 
the effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Mid-Wis Bankshares. There had been distributed drafts of an 
order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on February 9, 
1968, of the application of Mid-Wis Bankshares, Inc., Madison, Wisconsin, 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of 
Madison Bank & Trust Company and The Westgate Bank, both of Madison, 
Wisconsin. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 8. 
Meeting with representatives of New York Clearing House. 
Mr. Solomon recalled that a meeting with representatives of the New 
York Clearing House Association had been set for March 18 for the 
Purpose of discussing section 221.3(u) of Regulation U, Credit by Banks 
for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks, and that 
at the Board meeting on February 29, 1968, the effective date of section 
221.3(u) had been postponed until April 10. 
Because of the gold crisis and the then pending meeting of 
the governors of central banks of the gold pool countries, an offer of 
representatives of the New York Clearing House to postpone their visit 
had been accepted. 
In a letter dated March 18 the Clearing House had 

1107 
3/20/68 
-5-
suggested that the meeting be rescheduled for Monday, April 1. The 
letter also requested that the effective date for section 221.3(u) be 
further postponed. 
A proposed reply would express the view that it would be prefer 
able not to grant a further postponement of the effective date of 
section 221.3(u) and suggest that instead of arranging another meeting 
the Board would consider the problem on the basis of a memorandum that 
•Mifi^A 
had been submitted by the Clearing House. A possible alternative would 
mentioned tentatively by the Clearing House in telephone conversations. 
Discussion revealed a preference on the part of the Board to 
reschedule the proposed meeting. Accordingly, it was agreed that such 
be to arrange a meeting for Friday, March 22, which date had been 
a meeting would be arranged on Friday, March 22. 
p i - 5 
Gold loans. Governor Brimmer stated that he had requested the 
Division of International Finance to review the Board's policy with 
respect to gold loans to foreign central banks in the light of the new 
arrangements agreed upon at the meeting of central bank governors this 
Past week-end. He expressed the tentative view that gold loans should 
n o t be made to countries that did not subscribe to the agreed-upon 
.f <>•.'.« • >, 
P r o c e d u r e s , a n d h e s u g g e s t e d t h a t a t s o m e p o i n t it m i g h t b e 
d e s i r a b l e 
to k 
bring the question before the National Advisory Council on Interna-
ti 
A°nal Monetary and Financial Policies. 
n r , . 

1108 
V .-••> i 
3/20/68 
-6-
Members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Sherman, 
and Johnson then withdrew from the meeting. 
Retirement System. In a memorandum dated March 15, 1968, 
Governor Maisel recommended that the Board indicate to President Scanlon, 
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, that if the Executive Committee of the Retirement System 
should recommend the designation of Mr. Edward A. Wayne as a Consultant 
to the Retirement System following his retirement as President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond at the end of March, the Board would 
A >: s t 
interpose no objection to such designation or to a daily fee computed 
at approximately $150, plus travel expenses. Such fees and expenses 
,'t'X 
would be paid by the Retirement System. 
After discussion, the Board expressed agreement with Governor 
Vi . . <„ 
M a i s e l ' s r e c o m m e n d a t i o n a n d it w a s u n d e r s t o o d t h a t M r . S c a n l o n w o u l d 
advised accordingly. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On March 19, 1968, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
March 19, 1968, recommending that the contract for printing 100,000 
Copies of the List of Stocks Registered on a National Securities 
change be awarded to Guthrie Lithograph at an estimated cost of 
>->95, and requesting approval of any resulting overexpenditure in 
h e Division's 1968 budget. 
. 
V " 
• 

1109 
-7-
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Salary increase 
Hubert White, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from $15,307 to $15,757 per annum, effective March 24, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Alfred Telia, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business March 15, 1968. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
AE£pintments 
• • 
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
Ronald John Godfrey as Programmer, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $9,657, effective the date 
o f entrance upon duty. 
Elizabeth Jane Goodhart as Assistant Legal File Clerk, Legal 
ivision, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,615, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
^£ernity leave 
; \ 
t
 
C a r o 1 B- Har*g> Assistant Manager, Cafeteria, Division of Adminis 
v e Services, beginning the close of business April 5, 1968. 
On the dates shown, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters. copies of which are attached 
as indicated: 
^LMarch_joi968 
i
v
^ 
-^-£^e__General Counsel of the Board 
Lett 
a p p r
e r . t o the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Item No. 
r e a p ° ^ n 8 the Bank's acting as fiscal agent with 
nati 
P G ct to a proposed issue of bonds by the Inter-
n a l Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 
m 

J l l o 
3/20/68 
mmii uT: 
On March 19. 1968 (continued) 
-8-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
i-Ax ! * 
Letter to The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleve-
land, Ohio, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in North 
Olmsted. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Letter to Union State Bank, East Bernard, Texas, 
waiving the requirement of six months' notice 
°f withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
-the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, approving the establishment of a 
branch in the vicinity of Wilshire Boulevard and 
Vermont Avenue, Los Angeles. 
• • jMg f 
° 
•Qnjjarch 20. 1968 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Jitter to The Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, 
"io, approving the establishment of a branch in 
Solon. 
^.^'••laii • 
Item No, 
10 
11 
12 
13 

BDARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1111 
Item No. 1 
3/20/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 20, 1968, 
The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10015 
G e n t l e m e n : 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), New 
York, New York, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Roadtown, Tortola, British 
lr8in Islands, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to 
the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unle ss the branch is actually established and opened for 
^usiness on or before April 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall 
e deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. Please inform the Board of 
°vernors through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York when the branch 
opened for business, furnishing information as to the exact loca-
0 n of the branch. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
Q^reign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
^ reign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort, 
^cordingly, the foregoing permission is given with the understanding 
lo 
t*16 *-nvestnient now being approved, combined with other foreign 
C o
a n s and investments of your bank, Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
n o^ 0 ration, and Chase International Investment Corporation, will 
^ 
cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guide-
eff6S established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
cn 
C t a n d that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
stained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
I l l y 
Item No. 2 
3/20/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 20, 1968. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In reference to your letters of January 17 and February 21, 
1968, the Board of Governors grants consent to your Corporation to 
purchase and hold 100 per cent of the capital stock of a corporation 
to be organized under the laws of Panama, tentatively known as Panama 
Aircraft Leasing S.A., ("PALSA"), at a cost of approximately US$1,000 
provided such stock is acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
It is understood that PALSA is to be organized and main-
tained solely for the purpose of holding title of aircraft to be 
purchased from The Boeing Company, Renton, Washington, which will 
be leased to Olympic Airways S.A., a Greek corporation. 
The Board has noted that as of February 29, 1968, the for-
eign loans and investments of your Corporation, First National City 
Bank, International Banking Corporation, and First National City Bank 
(International), exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent 
i s given with the understanding that those foreign loans and invest-
ments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with 
the guidelines; that the investment now being approved will be made 
withi n those guidelines; and, that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

/•ipofGow*'., 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1113 
Item No. 3 
3/20/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L C • R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 20, 1968. 
mm 
M 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
% • 
Gentlemen: 
V< ii: 
As requested in your letter of February 21, 1968, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold approximately 17,334 additional shares of Commercial Credit 
Corporation (Thailand) Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand, at a cost of approxi-
mately US$110,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
Atv* 
i. 1 
1 
. 
^ 
. « 
. 
4 
^ 
ma 
:^rom the date of this letter. 
The Board has noted that as of February 29, 1968, the for-
eign loans and investments of your Corporation, First National City 
ank, International Banking Corporation, and First National City Bank 
^International), exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the 
oreign credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent 
ls given with the understanding that those foreign loans and invest-
ments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with 
e guidelines; that the investment now being approved will be made 
thin those guidelines; and, that due consideration is being given 
0 the priorities contained therein. 
i :j. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
' ' A ^ 
D F T H E 
Item No. 4 
'MFEDERAL 
R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3/20/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 20, 1968, 
First National City Overseas 
, Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
. 
G e n t l e m e n : 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
ot February 23, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
^rporation to purchase and hold 100 per cent of the capital stock 
Citibank Finance Sendirian Berhad ("CFSB"), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
a cost of approximately US$35,000, provided such shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter. 
of u 
T H e B o a r d ' s consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
ti 
/nes ° f C F S B b y F i r s t N a t i o n a l City Overseas Investment Corpora-
°n ( FNCOIC") is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CFSB if CFSB at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if CFSB establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Malaysia or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of CFSB as it may require from time to time; 
and, 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CFSB be 
reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if CFSB were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

111r; 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Asso-
ciation, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of CFSB. 
The Board has noted that as of February 29, 1968, the 
foreig 
n loans and investments of your Corporation, First National 
City Bank, International Banking Corporation, and First National 
city Bank (International) exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. The fore-
going consent is given with the understanding that those foreign 
loans and investments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level 
consistent with the guidelines; that the investment now being approved 
^ill be made within those guidelines; and that due consideration is 
e i n8 given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
I 

111( 
BOARD D F GOVERNORS 
as&fep' 
a r t h e 
I t e m N°- 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3 / 2 0 / 6 8 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 20, 1968. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
G e n t l e m e n : 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
ot February 26, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation to purchase and hold 100 per cent of the capital 
tock of Philippine Finance Company ("PHILFINCO"), Makati, 
iUppines, at a cost of approximately US$260,000, provided such 
^nares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter, 
n this connection, the Board also approves the purchase and 
0J-ding of shares of PHILFINCO in excess of 10 per cent of your 
°rporation's capital and surplus. 
o f
 
T h e Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of PHILFINCO by First National City Overseas Investment 
tion!rati°n ( M F N C 0 I C " ) i s granted subject to the following condi-
> n s : 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in PHILFINCO if PHILFINCO at 
any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if PHILFINCO establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in the Philippines or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible to 
FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of PHILFINCO as it may require from 
time to time; and, 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by PHILFINCO 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if PHILFINCO were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 

\/< 
—' Sv' Cv 
1117 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is 
requested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Asso-
ciation, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of PHILFINCO. 
The Board has noted that as of February 29, 1968, the 
foreign loans and investments of your Corporation, First National 
City Bank, International Banking Corporation, and First National 
City Bank (International) exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. The fore-
going consent is given with the understanding that those foreign 
loans and investments will be reduced as soon as possible to a 
level consistent with the guidelines; that the investment now being 
approved will be made within those guidelines; and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No 
T E L E G R A M 
3/20/68 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
March 20, 1968 
HICKMAN - CLEVELAND 
Board interposes no objection to lease-purchase 
arrangement for Linch property proposed in your 
March 15, 1968 letter to Governor Mitchell in 
regard to new building for Cincinnati Branch. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KENYON 

t'.'.fi 
(> V/ik 
1 1 1 9 
Item No. 7 
T E L E G R A M 
3/20/68 
L E A S E D WIRE 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
(r'i'. 
'••ai: ., ; 
' 
i v . 
||fe 
; \ i' •»»* 
March 20, 1968 
PRESIDENT, ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
The President on March 19 signed H.R. 14743, the bill repealing 
the gold reserve requirement. Accordingly, the Board's letter 
of March 15," 1968 (S-2049) making certain changes in outstanding 
instructions with respect to gold certificate reserves of 
Federal Reserve Banks is rescinded. The March 15 letter 
... ' /;> , 
had superseded the Board's letter of February 23, 1966 
(F.R.L.S. #5880) which is also rescinded. 
(SIGNED ROBERT C. HOLLAND) 

1120 
Item No. 8 
3/20/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
. ^ 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
JJID-WIS BANKSHARES, INC. 
Edison, Wisconsin 
°r approval of action to become a bank 
Riding company through the acqusition 
t 80 per cent or more of the voting 
bares of Madison Bank & Trust Company 
The Westgate Bank, both of Madison, 
lsconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), and 
6ction 222.4(a)(1) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)(1)), 
aPPlication by Mid-Wis Bankshares, Inc., Madison, Wisconsin, for the 
Bog^^ | 
8 Prior approval of action whereby Applicant would become a bank 
n8 company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
8 shares of Madison Bank & Trust Company and of The Westgate Bank, 
k°th < 
l n Madison, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
t« .u 
the Commissioner of Banking for the State of Wisconsin of receipt 
0t the 
aPPlication and requested his views and recommendation. He 
approval of the application. 

1121 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on October 12, 1967 (32 Federal Register 14166), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
comments and views has expired and all those received have been considered 
bV the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
th 
e thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
fchan three months after the date of the Order, unless such period is extended 
c 
°r good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
>Ursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 20th day of March 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

11ZZ 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MID-WIS BANKSHARES, INC., MADISON, WISCONSIN, 
TO ACQUIRE SHARES OF MADISON BANK & TRUST COMPANY AND 
THE WESTGATE BANK, BOTH OF MADISON, WISCONSIN. 
STATEMENT 
Mid-Wis Bankshares, Inc., Madison,Wisconsin, ("Applicant") has 
filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
Ach 
°f 1956, an application for approval of action to become a bank holding 
CornPany through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Madison Bank & Trust Company ("Madison Bank") and of The Westgate Bank 
("w 
estgate Bank"), both located in Madison, Wisconsin, and both.nonmember 
ins^red banks. 
Madison Bank is located in the downtown business district of the 
C i t y an<* has a drive-in office within 300 feet of its main office. As of 
Utle 30, 1967~{ Madison Bank had deposits of $25.4 million. Westgate Bank, 
deposits of $4 million, operates a single office, approximately 5-1/2 
ltxdi 
0 southwest of Madison Bank in a section of the city described as 
Ust*ial, commercial, and residential. Applicant states that Westgate 
wa8 organized in 1966 by the principal stockholders and officers of 
Bank. The president of Madison Bank is chairman of the board of 
•a with respect to banks are as of this date unless otherwise noted. 

11^3 
- 2 -
Westgate Bank and the president of Westgate Bank is vice president and 
trust officer of Madison Bank; and both of these officers are on the boards 
°f directors of both banks. Applicant states that 100 stockholders of 
Madison Bank own 41.5 per cent of that bank's outstanding stock, and also 
0wn 57.6 per cent of the outstanding stock of Westgate Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
ky section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to» and views and recommendation requested of the Commissioner of Banking 
the State of Wisconsin. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
aPPlication. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly 
r would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
Of 
•-0 attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
nited States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition the effect 
w*uch, in any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen 
^Petition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner 
Woulri oe in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anti-
^Petitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in 
the 
Public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the 
cotivenie nee and needs of the community to be served. In each case the 
As required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
Urces and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks 
c°nCern 
n e d , and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 

- 2 -
1124 
dompetitive effect of proposed transaction. - There are 10 
2/ 
bank holding companies- operating in the State of Wisconsin. They control 
total deposits of $2.5 billion which represent approximately 36 per cent 
°f total bank deposits in the State. The deposits of Madison Bank and 
Westgate Bank, respectively, are .4 per cent and .06 per cent of total 
deposits in the State. On the basis of deposits, Applicant would be the 
s®allest bank holding company with headquarters in Wisconsin, if the proposal 
herein is consummated. 
In Dane County there are 33 banks. Of these, First National Bank 
of Madison (a subsidiary of First Wisconsin Eankshares Corporation) ranks 
first with deposits of $131 million which represent 31.9 per cent of the 
dePosits in the area. Madison Bank ranks fourth with 6.2 per cent of such 
dePosits. Formation of Applicant would give it control of 7.3 per cent 
of the deposits. It would take Madison Bank's place as the fourth largest 
banking organization and would be the third largest bank holding company 
derating in the county. The concentration of deposits held by the four 
*atgest banking organizations would be increased by 1.1 percentage points. 
In the Madison metropolitan area, Madison Bank is the fourth 
largest of 14 banks; Westgate Bank ranks twelfth. In this area, First 
^tional Bank of Madison controls about 40 per cent of total deposits. 
Three of these holding companies are located in Minnesota. They are 
) ' First Bank Stock Corporation and (2) Northwest Bancorporation, both 
n Minneapolis, and (3) Otto Bremer Foundation in St. Paul. They control, 
^Pectively, $25.5 million, $37.2 million, and $19.2 million of deposits 
Wisconsin banks. 

1125 
• L 
-
The second largest bank, Bank of Madison, has deposits of $48 million and, 
together with an affiliated batik (Hilldale State Bank, deposits of $12 
million), controls about 18 per cent of the total deposits in the area. The 
third largest bank, Security State Bank (deposits of $35 million), is a 
subsidiary 
of Marine Corporation and is closely associated with Randall 
State Bank; together, they control about 14 per cent of such deposits. 
Edison Bank now controls about 8 per cent of total deposits in this area. 
Vernation of Applicant would give it control of 9 per cent of such deposits. 
Applicant delineates the primary service areas—^ of the proposed 
Subsidiaries as contiguous but not overlapping. Madison Bank's primary 
8erVice area is shown as east of Midvale Boulevard with an estimated popula-
° n of approximately 50,000. In this area, Madison Bank holds 10.6 per 
Cent of the deposits; First National Bank of Madison holds 55 per cent of the 
P°sits; and there are four other competing banks. Westgate Bank's primary 
*ce area is shown as west of Midvale Boulevard with an estimated popula-
tt0n 
11 
approximately 25,000. In this area there are three banks of which 
We 
st8ate Bank is the smallest, with 14.5 per cent of the deposits. 
The data presented reflect that formation of the proposed holding 
would have a negligible impact upon the degree of concentration of 
L 
n8 resources in the State. While holding company control is already 
lt* the Madison metropolitan area and the primary service area of 
respect to Madison Bank, it is the area from which Applicant 
®hips
 
e s that 77.6 per cent of the bank's deposits of individuals, partner-
^estg a n d corporations ("IPC deposits") are derived. With respect to 
d*Po<rte Bank, it is the area from which 82.1 per cent of the bank's IPC 
t s are estimated to be derived. 

1126 
- 2 -
Madison Bank, the formation of Applicant would not cause any significant 
increase in the concentration of deposits already existing in the banking 
organizations in those areas; and would not have a significant effect upon 
the share of commercial banking resources that would be held by Applicant, 
bank holding company systems, or the large banking organizations in the 
areas involved. On the record before the Board, it is concluded that the 
formation of the proposed holding company would not result in a monopoly, 
be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or 
attecpt to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of Applicant's 
Proposal on existing and potential competition, the Board finds that these 
c°nGiderations present no bar to approval of the application. Applicant 
states that 3.9 per cent of Madison Bank's IPC deposits originate in 
^estgate Bank's service area and that 15.3 per cent of Westgate Bank's IPC 
Posits were obtained from Madison Eank's service area. Applicant reports 
the deposits that Westgate Bank derives from Madison Bank's service 
d represent, in large part, accounts of Westgate Bank directors. Viewed 
** the light of the interlocking of managements, directorates, and stock-
i e r interests, the facts of record warrant a conclusion that competition 
e en the two banks is limited and not significant; formation of Applicant 
V°Uld 
u not substantially lessen competition between the proposed subsidiaries; 
atl3 if. appears unlikely that any substantial future competition between 
the§p i 
banks would be foreclosed by the proposed affiliation. 
With respect to the competitive force of Applicant ir. relation 
to n e other banks in the areas involved, the facts discussed earlier show 

- 6 -
11Z7 
that each of the proposed subsidiaries faces strong competition in the 
areas served. On the record herein, it is concluded that the affiliation 
Proposed, while it may enable Westgate Bank to compete somewhat more 
effectively than it can without such holding company arrangement, would 
have little effect upon the competitive ability of Madison Bank, and is 
n°t likely to impair the competitive vigor of existing institutions operating 
the areas involved. No banking alternative in either of the designated 
Primary service areas would be eliminated. And there is no reasonable 
likelihood that formation of Applicant would preclude future competition in 
said areas. 
In the light of the foregoing considerations, and all the facts 
°f record, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
w°uld not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly nor 
any other manner restrain trade in any relevant section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant, a newly formed corporation, has no financial or operating history. 
*ts financial condition, managerial resources and future prospects are 
uePendent in major respects upon those of the banks it proposes to acquire. 
Westgate Bank is in an area that is reported to be experiencing 
a rapid residential, commercial and light industrial development. This 
bank's financial condition, management and prospects appear to be 
8atisfactory. 
Madison Bank has enjoyed substantial growth and is expected to 
C°ntinue to share in the business of the Madison area. The financial 
&°urces of the bank are generally adequate. Its management, earnings, and 
Pro 
sPects are satisfactory. 

11^8 
- 7 -
On the basis of the foregoing, it may be concluded that the 
financial resources of Applicant are adequate; its management and prospects 
are satisfactory; and considerations related to the banking factors are 
consistent with approval of the application herein. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - Applicant 
states that formation of the proposed holding company would provide the 
banks with a plan of mutual assistance in meeting larger loan demands, make 
the trust services of the larger bank conveniently available to customers 
the primary service area of Westgate Bank where no banks now offer such 
services, and provide a standard audit program for both banks under the 
SuPervision of Madison Bank's audit department. In view of the interlocking 
^agements and directorates of the banks, it appears that the above 
°kjectives may be achieved without the formation of a bank holding company, 
however, inasmuch as a holding company affiliation would create a more 
^ermanent association between the banks, it may serve to assure the smaller 
ank of an exchange of information and other assistance, and may result in 
br 
r°adening the scope and nature of the services offered by Westgate Bank, 
result that would be beneficial to the business firms in its service area. 
e Board concludes that the evidence relating to the convenience and needs 
of th 
n e area involved is consistent with and weighs slightly in favor of 
apProval of the application. 
Summary and Conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
<*lned in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in section 
3(c) 
o f the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
vouxd , 
D e in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
^ 
20, 1968 

BDARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 9 
3/20/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
March 19, 1968 
Mr. F. T. Davis, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Davis: 
This refers to your letter of March 15, 1968, and 
enclosures, concerning the proposed issue by the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development of its Twenty-Six Year Bonds of 
1968, due March 15, 1994, in an. aggregate principal amount of $150 
million. In this regard, you state that it is proposed to amend 
Schedule A of the Fiscal Agency Agreement, dated as of February 6, 
1950, between the International Bank and your Bank to include the 
bonds in question. 
Acting on behalf of the Board pursuant to delegated 
authority, the General Counsel of the Board has approved of your 
Bank acting as fiscal agent with respect to the proposed bond issue 
and the execution and delivery by your Bank of an agreement with 
the International Bank substantially in the form of the draft of 
Supplement No. 35 to the Fiscal Agency Agreement enclosed with 
your letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

i £ 0 P Y 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
3/20/68 
Item No. 10 
M a r c k If, 1968 
C. F. Karch, President 
he Cleveland Trust Company 
Cleveland, Ohio 
D«ar M r . Karch:. 
O n behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal F e-
* e r v e System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Peserve 
J*nk of Cleveland has approved your request for 
six-months' cxten-
®ion of time within which your bank m a y establish a branch at the 
Southeast corner of Lorain and Stearns Roads, North Olmsted, Cuya-
°Ra County, Ohio, "^his extension expires on October 10, 1968. 
On the day operations are started, will you please notify 
• hy letter that the branch has been formally opened for business. 
: fc 
„ 
Very tru'v vours, 
11. V/. Huning 
Vice President 

C O P Y 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF DALLAS 
1 1 3 1 
DALLAS. TEXAS 
75222 
Item No. 11 
3/20/68 
March 19, 1968 
Board of Director* 
Union State Sank 
0. Box kO 
*ast Bernard, Texas 77^35 
Gentlemen: 
Reference la made to President Clera C. Boettcher^s letter of 
M®5Sh 
i&ft* together with the accompanying resolution dated March 12, 
^968, signifying your intention to withdraw from membership in the Fed-
eral Reserve System and requesting waiver of the six months* notice of 
8uch withdrawal. . 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
Authority, this Bank has waived the requirement of six months' notice of 
vithdrawal• Under the provisions of Section 206.10(c) of the Board's 
Regulation H, your institution may accomplish termination of its mesfcer-
at any time within eight months from the date that notice of inten-
sion to withdraw from membership was given. Upon surrender to this bank 
stock issued to your institution, such stock will be cancelled and appro-
priate refund will be made thereon. 
We presume that you will not wish to terminate your membership 
you have been notified by the federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
}
 h a t the insurance status of your deposits will be continued. If you 
not already done so, you should contact Hr. Lloyd Thcnas, Supervls-
Examiner for the federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for this dis-
rict# for information as to continuance of the insurance status of your 
eposits. Mr. Thomas' address Is Station I, Dallas, Texas 75222. 
When you have been advised by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
^°rporation of the continuance of deposit insurance, please forward us 
or refund the stock of this bank held by you aad also your certificate 
^membership in the federal Besorve System, thereby terminating your 
^obership. Tour letter transmitting this stock should contain instruc-
I o h k as to the disposition of your reserve account balance and the trans-
o m Q t aacuritiea, if any, which are held in safekeeping for the account 
your bank by us or by our Houston Branch. 
_ 
If we can be of any further assistance, please feel free to 
^ U . on 11a. 
on us. 
Sincerely, 
Board of Governors of the ^ 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
Thomas B. Sullivan 

Item No. 1 21:13 
3/20/68 
F e d e r a l Reserve Bank o f S a n Francibco 
S A N F H A N C I S O O , C A L I F O R N I A 
0 4 1 2 0 
Kerch 19, 1968 
Mr. Robert H. Steele, 
Ae sistant Vice President, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California 94120. 
Dear Mr. Steele: 
This will refer to your lettejr^Tr-ted December 
1967, in which application was made^tfyc permits ion to estab^ 
lish a branch office in the vicipTty of Wilshi)re Boulevard 
and Vermont Avenue, Los Angeles,\jalifornia. 
On the bcis i.s ofour f ield\inv^tigation and our 
general knowledge at yourb^nk, we brieve that the bank's 
capitalization is/adequate, tumagemenk i8 satisfactory, that 
the proposed branch will serv« the convenience and needn of 
the comaunt »:y, *iid th«t the branch will not tend to create 
an unde«4toble competitive situation. 
On behalYxqf the ^Bdard of Governors of the Federal 
erve System, acting under delegated authority, this Bank 
iproves the espb! Uhment by Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, of > oranch to be located in the vicinity of 
"Ishire Br.<l^Vard and Vermont Avenue, Los Angeles, California, 
Ide^r^e^branch is established within one year from the 
date 
"this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(sisnnd) Irwin L, Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

r,«$g 
w 
n ; 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
i 
tbpy 
Item No. 13 
3/20/68 
March 20, 1968 
K 
M r . Harry F. 
Burmester, President 
The Union Commerce Bank 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Dear M r . Burmester: 
The application of your bank, dated January 30, 1968, 
for permission to establish an out-of-town branch at the southeast 
corner of Routes 91 and 43, Solon, Cuyahoga County, Ohio,has 
keen reviewed by this bank. 
Upon investigation, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland finds that the capital of the bank is 
adequate, that its management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
*Qd that it will not tend to create an undesirable, competitive 
aituation. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the 
Fedoral R eserve Bank of Cleveland hereby approves the establish-
ment of a out-of-town branch by your bank at the southeast corner 
°f Routes 91 and 43, provided the branch is established within one 
y«ar from the date of this letter. 
On the day operations are started, will you please notify 
u * by letter that the branch has been officially opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
•vr-iV 
H. W . Hutting 
Vice President 
