MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 26, 1969 

2658 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Tuesday, August 26, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

* >l"t 
8/26/69 
-2-
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the 
Board 
Other appropriate staff members also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Maryland National Bank. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated August 13, 1969, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
relating to the application of Maryland National Bank, Baltimore, 
Maryland, for permission to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. 
The Division's recommendation was favorable. 
Governor Robertson indicated that, for reasons previously 
expressed on the question of Nassau branches, he would vote to deny 
the application, and Governor Brimmer said that he would abstain. 
The application was thereupon approved, Governor Robertson 
dissenting and Governor Brimmer abstaining. A copy of the letter 
sent to Maryland National Bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
Chase Manhattan. Unanimous approval was given to letters to 
(1) Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to the acquisition of stock of a commercial bank to 
be formed in Guayaquil, Ecuador, and to the corporation's continuing 
to hold stock of Banco Continental, Lima, Peru; Banco del Comercio, 
Bogota, Colombia; and Banco Mercantil y Agricola, Caracas, Venezuela, 
should one or more acquire stock of the newly-organized bank in Ecuador; 
and (2) The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, 

2660 
8/26/69 
-3-
New York, granting consent to the bank's continuing to hold indirectly 
stock of Banco del Comercio, Bogota, Colombia after the latter acquires 
shares of the commercial bank to be formed in Ecuador. Copies of the 
letters are attached as Items 2 and 3, 
First Empire State Corporation. There had been distributed a 
draft of an order reflecting the Board's denial on August 12, 1969, of 
the application of First Empire State Corporation, New York, New York, 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of 
Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, Buffalo; First Trust & Deposit 
Company, Syracuse; and two new national banks into which National 
Commercial Bank and Trust Company, Albany and First National Bank in 
Yonkers, Yonkers, would be merged. A statement by Governors Robertson, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill, a concurring statement by Governor Maisel, and 
a dis senting statement by Chairman Martin and Governors Mitchell and 
Daane also had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statements was authorized. Copies 
°f the documents are attached under Item No. 4. 
Trust Company of Georgia. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated July 14, 1969, and 
°ther pertinent papers relative to the application of Trust Company of 
Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, to merge Atlanta Bank & Trust Company, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 

z m i 
8/26/69 
-4-
The Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval. 
The merger would eliminate some competition, as well as increase slightly 
the concentration of banking resources, and the overall competitive 
effect of the proposed transaction was viewed as adverse. However, an 
overriding consideration, in the Division's opinion, was that of manage-
ment succession at Atlanta Bank & Trust Company. The bank's president 
was in poor health, no one else on the bank's staff was familiar with 
the bank's specialty of construction lending, and efforts to find a 
replacement had been futile. Virtually none of the bank's substantial 
construction loan business originated in the main office area, which was 
located in an economically-depressed section. Trust Company of Georgia 
was considered in a better position to supply the banking needs of that 
community and to assume the greater risks involved. A probable alter-
native would be control by the Citizens and Southern group (which already 
held a 5 
per cent interest in Atlanta Bank & Trust), with resulting more 
serious anticompetitive effects. 
The Banking Markets Section, on the other hand, recommended 
denial. 
One of the largest banks in the highly concentrated Atlanta 
Market would be acquiring an important competitor, and little if any 
benefit would accrue to public convenience and needs that could not be 
met by the establishment of de novo branches. 
Governor Mitchell agreed with the recommendation of the Division 
°f Supervision and Regulation. Although he felt that the record was 

* > i > t~ •• o 
8/26/69 
-5-
somewhat incomplete, it seemed to him that the merger would provide a 
viable community institution. Moreover, the resulting institution was 
more likely to meet the needs of the area than if Atlanta Bank & Trust 
sought affiliation with another small bank, and the proposed merger 
would be preferable to a take-over by Citizens and Southern. 
Governor Maisel commented that the number of competitive outlets 
still remaining would not appear to compare too unfavorably with other 
highly concentrated metropolitan areas. After evaluating this and 
other factors, it seemed to him that the favorable considerations out-
weighed the adverse. 
Governor Brimmer was of the view that the real business of the 
smaller bank was in the Atlanta metropolitan area and that the advantages 
°f allowing Trust Company of Georgia to take over outweighed any anticom-
petitive effect. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that there was not much 
doubt but that Citizens and Southern would assume control of the insti-
tution if the Trust Company of Georgia application were denied, and that 
the present proposal was the better solution. 
Governor Robertson stated that a high degree of concentration 
banking resources admittedly existed, and it was important that other 
banks branch into the area, which they could do by law. He could see 
n
othing in the way of convenience and needs that would offset the adverse 
competitive effect. 

J & 8 6 3 
i 
8/26/69 
-6-
The application was then approved, Governor Robertson dissenting, 
with the understanding that an order and statement would be drafted for 
the Board's consideration, along with a dissenting statement. 
First at Orlando. A memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated August 8, 1969, and other pertinent papers had been 
distributed in connection with an application of First at Orlando Cor-
poration, Orlando, Florida, to acquire all of the voting shares (except 
directors' qualifying shares) of Central Park First National Bank, 
Orlando, a proposed new bank. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that the 
application be approved. First at Orlando presently owned 5 of the 18 
banks in Orange County, accounting for 42 per cent of the deposits held 
• -I f •>• ii 
by banks in the area, and the high concentration made the case a diffi-
cult one. However, there was a clear need for one or more banking 
offices in the area, and First at Orlando's de novo entry would not 
appear to foreclose an opportunity for other banks to enter the area. 
The Banking Markets Section also recommended approval, as did the 
C o m p t r o l l e r of the C u r r e n c y . 
j 
On the other hand, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta recommended 
denial, and in a memorandum dated August 14, 1969, the Legal Division 
r
ecommended that the application be denied on the grounds that the anti-
competitive effects of the proposal would be significantly adverse and 
w
ere not outweighed by other considerations. Approval of the application 

8/26/69 
-7-
not only would further increase concentration in an area in which First 
at Orlando was already dominant but also would tend to foreclose possible 
I "* v' 
new entry by others into the area and lead to a substantially less com-
petitive market than might otherwise develop. 
After a general discussion of the application, Governor Mitchell 
stated that he would be inclined to approve the application. He found 
persuasive the reasoning of the Banking Markets Section that, while 
the competitive impact of the proposed acquisition would be slightly 
adverse, the area needed more banking facilities and other banking 
organizations had not been moving in to meet the need. It did not seem 
to him that the banking market was by any means dominated by First at 
Orland o. Other groups were in the area, and they were not likely to 
sit back and watch First at Orlando take over the market. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the proper stance for 
the Board was to deny applications for further expansion of banks 
already dominant in an area. He also had some doubts as to the appro-
priateness of the close association between First at Orlando and the 
owners and developers of the industrial park in which the proposed bank 
w
ould be located. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that he had originally voted in favor 
of the application of First at Orlando to become a bank holding company, 
at which time the Board had expressed concern over the extent to which 
First at Orlando would control banking resources in the Orange County 

2 6 6 5 
8/26/69 
-8-
area. He would take seriously those admonitions and deny the present 
application, citing among other reasons the previous expression of 
concern. 
Governor Sherrill indicated that in a case that had been cited 
as a precedent, it had appeared that the immediate area would sustain 
only one bank. In the present case the area appeared capable of sus-
taining more than one banking office. 
Governor Robertson expressed himself in favor of denying the 
application for the reasons set forth in the Legal Division's memorandum. 
First at Orlando should not be permitted to get a grip on the banking 
market that would prevent other banks from entering the area. 
Chairman Martin said he would be inclined to approve the 
application. 
The tentative views expressed by the members of the Board having 
indicated an even division between negative and favorable attitudes 
toward the application, it was agreed that the matter would be given 
further consideration at a time when all members of the Board could 
Participate. 
Per diem for field examining staff. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from the Office of the Controller dated August 12, 1969, 
r
ecommending that the Board authorize the payment to members of its 
field examining staff of a per diem in lieu of subsistence not to 
exceed $22, effective immediately, with the understanding that the 
Board's travel Regulations would be amended accordingly. 

8/26/69 
-9-
The recommendation was approved unanimously. 
System Open Market Account book-entry procedure. On December 16, 
1968, 
the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks approved 
the recommendation of the Subcommittee of Counsel on Fiscal Agency 
Operations that the book-entry procedure for United States Treasury 
securities be applied to such securities in the System Open Market 
Account. Incident to this action, the Conference also approved the 
recommendation of the Subcommittee of Counsel for an amendment to the 
"Plan for Securing Federal Reserve Notes by Pledge of Participations 
(Undivided Interests) in Direct Obligations of the United States in 
System Open Market Account." 
Under such amendment securities in the 
Sys 
tem Account while in book-entry form would be held subject to the 
Joint instructions of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the 
Federal Reserve Agent at New York, thus paralleling the provision of 
the present Plan that such securities in tangible form be held in joint 
custody. 
The action of the Conference of Presidents had been premised on 
a
n understanding that the Treasury regulation covering book-entry pro-
cedure for United States Treasury securities would be amended to extend 
t
he book-entry procedure to Treasury securities in third party accounts. 
S u
c h action had now been taken, effective July 15, 1969. 
In a memorandum dated August 19, 1969, Mr. O'Connell discussed 
e
 conclusions of the Subcommittee of Counsel and the principal effects 

8/26/69 
-10-
of the proposed amendment, a copy of which was attached. Also attached 
was a draft of letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks 
and to all Federal Reserve Agents requesting their views. 
During the course of discussion, Governor Robertson indicated 
that although he was in favor of the proposal he would defer formal 
Board action until after receipt of the views of the Presidents and 
Federal Reserve Agents. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the letter to the Presidents 
and Federal Reserve Agents. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
Emergency procedures. Mr. Leavitt stated that he had been in 
touch with the Richmond and Atlanta Federal Reserve Banks in an effort 
to determine what steps needed to be taken to meet bank credit problems 
in the wake of Hurricane Camille. He summarized the fragmentary reports 
that had been received with respect to the disaster areas in the Fifth 
and Sixth Districts, noting that in one instance, at least, a member 
bank would probably seek loans for the purpose of helping its nonmember 
correspondent banks. Also, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
had received an inquiry from the Mississippi Department of Bank Super-
vision as to its policy with respect to the availability of funds for 
nonmember banks. 
Mr. Leavitt referred to actions that had been taken to 
accommodate credit needs to Alaskan banks in 1964 following the earth-
quake there and recommended that similar steps be taken in the present 

8/26/69 
-11-
situation to relax penalties for reserve deficiencies and lengthen the 
period of time over which credit might be made available. He sought 
guidance as to the proper course to follow with respect to nonmember 
banks. 
It was agreed that the situation was one that could rapidly 
convert into a bank emergency and that the problem should be considered 
in that light. Question was raised whether funds should be made avail-
able to nonmember banks directly or through member banks, and one Board 
member commented that if the latter course were followed he would be 
concerned that member banks might borrow from the Federal Reserve at 
°ne rate and lend at a much higher rate. It was suggested that such 
a situation could be avoided if the Federal Reserve made loans directly 
to nonmember banks at the discount rate. However, Mr. Leavitt noted 
that such action might pose a problem since many member banks considered 
the reserve requirements to which they were subjected as a form of 
insurance premium entitling them to access to the discount window in 
times of emergency. To accord nonmember banks the same privilege would 
nullify one of the prime reasons for System membership. 
A view was expressed that it would be preferable for the Federal 
Reserve Banks to make funds available directly under the provisions of 
the last paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, and it was 
noted that use of such authority had recently been the subject of a 
letter to the Federal Reserve Banks. 

2669 
i 
8/26/69 
-12-
Governor Brimmer remarked that the way in which the System 
responded to the present emergency could affect its image. He agreed 
with the view that emergency procedures should contemplate direct lend-
ing by the Federal Reserve rather than lending through the member banks, 
to which credit for helpfulness would then accrue. In addition, there 
would be an additional net advantage of relieving pressure on correspon-
dent member banks, which might receive more calls for funds than they 
would be able to satisfy, with resultant difficulty in identifying the 
more urgent needs. 
The experience under the Alaskan procedures was also considered. 
Mr. Ring pointed out that since that time there had been a blanket dele-
gation of certain authorities to the Reserve Banks. They were now in 
a position, for instance, to waive penalties for reserve deficiencies 
sh ould they deem it appropriate. 
After further discussion, Mr. Holland commented that emergency 
procedures contemplated that the Federal Reserve would be aggressive 
in lending to member banks, while in the case of nonmember banks the 
Federal Reserve would function as lender of last resort. 
Governor 
Robertson then expressed the view that the Board would be on sound 
ground if it simply put the emergency provisions into effect and notified 
the Federal Reserve Banks concerned to proceed accordingly in their dis-
cretion as necessary to handle the situation. There was general agreement 
with this comment. 

8/26/69 
-13-
Unanimous approval was then given to arrangements whereby the 
'• i 
• . • 
» -
Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond and Atlanta would be authorized to 
relax penalties on member banks for failure to maintain required reserve 
balances and to make appropriate credit available to disaster-area banks 
under various provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and regulations of 
the Board applicable to emergency conditions. 
After discussion, it was also agreed to make a public announcement 
concerning the matter. A copy of the press release subsequently issued 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
Architectural fees. Mr. Shepardson summarized negotiations 
with the firm of Harbeson Hough Livingston & Larson with a view to up-
dating the contract for architectural fees in connection with repairs 
to the Board's building and construction of the proposed annex building, 
including construction of the north garage. He proposed that the contract 
be amended so as to set a fee of 5.4 per cent of the cost of the building, 
w
ith an overall cost ceiling of $30 million for computation of the fee. 
After discussion, the Board authorized amendment of the agreement 
w
ith the architect in accordance with Mr. Shepardson's recommendation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2671 
BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
. 
O F T H E 
8/26/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 26, 1969 
Maryland National Bank, 
Baltimore, Maryland. 
21203 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Maryland National Bank, Baltimore, 
Maryland, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
a
n d of Regulation M . 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States* 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
a
n d bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract 
by 
another party. 
In view of the unusual character of this operation, 
the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing special 
observation and review by the Board and after due notice may be with-
drawn or modified. 
The foregoing permission is also granted on the 
eondition that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
will be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be 
promptly notified of any modification in the branch's methods of 
operation, including changes in any contract under which services 
a r
e supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before September 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank cf Richmond, when the branch is opened for business. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 

d r y l a n d National Bank 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
Payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the 
States of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt 
trom any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 1Q 
and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to reserve requirements. The general purpose of these exemp-
tions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete 
abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been 
and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
united States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
A s
 y°
u a r e
 aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
r allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort 
•n view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
ith the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
-ximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
nited States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investments 
equired will be made within the guidelines established under the 
^oreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
oreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
nsideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Am* \ 
* 
BDARD D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
8/26/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
KRESt-f 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 26, 1969 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
G e n t l e m e n : 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
June 11, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corpora-
tion ("CMOBC") to purchase and hold up to 95 per cent of the stock 
°f a commercial bank to be formed in Guayaquil, Ecuador ("Banco"), 
a
t a cost of approximately $1,425,000, provided the shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter. The Board also 
grants consent for CMOBC to continue to hold the stock of Banco 
Continental, Lima, Peru; Banco del Comercio, Bogota, Colombia; and 
Banco Mercantil y Agricola, Caracas, Venezuela, should one or more 
them acquire a portion of the stock in Banco authorized in the 
Preceding sentence. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
°f shares of Banco by CMOBC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) 
That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Banco if Banco at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if Banco establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Ecuador or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Banco as it may require from time 
to time; and 

Z&7-
Caase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Banco be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if Banco were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Banco in Ecuador 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of Banco. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
and its other subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

.•VvOFGOw. . 
9 , 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
o p H r > 
Item No. 3 
8/26/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 26, 1969 
Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of June 11, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent 
for your bank to continue to hold indirectly the stock of 
Banco del Comercio, Bogota, Colombia, after Banco del Comercio 
acquires approximately 15 per cent of the stock of a commercial 
bank to be formed in Ecuador, at a cost of approximately 
$225,000. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and 
its subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No 
8/26/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION, 
Buffalo, New York, 
approval of action to become a 
ank holding company through the 
Requisition of voting shares of four 
b
anks in the State of New York. 
ORDER DISAPPROVING ACTI0I
T
 TO BECOME 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S e c
tion 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 8
^
2
(a)(l)) a n d section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Empire State Corporation, 
^
u f
falo, New York, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
^PPlicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
^ all of the outstanding voting shares (less directors
1
 qualifying 
hares of the two national banks) of the following four banks located 
the State of New York: Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, 
B u f f , 
*uo; First Trust & Deposit Company, Syracuse; a new national bank 
n t
°
 w
h*-ch would be merged National Commercial Bank and Trust Company, 

- 2 -
Albany; and a new national bank into which would be merged First 
National Bank in Yonkers, Yonkers. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
b i t t e n notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the New York Superintendent of Banks, and requested their 
views and recommendations thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval 
o f
 the application, and the Hew York State Banking Board advised the 
B
°ard of its action, consistent with a recommendation made to it by the 
Superintendent, approving an application, filed pursuant to the New York 
banking Law, with respect to the same transaction. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Fe
<leral Register on December 28, 1968 (33 Federal Register 19967), pro-
dding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
Wi t- k respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded 
t o
 the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for 
r
 filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
b e e
n considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
St atement of Governors Robertson, Brimmer and Sherrill, and the Concur-
r i n
8 Statement of Governor llaisel, both of this date, that said applica-
tl °
n
 be and hereby is denied. 

Dated at Washington, D. C., this 26th day of August, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
(Signed) 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

*>t
>v 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION, BUFFALO, NEW YORK, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT OF 
GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, BRIMMER, AND SHERRILL 
First Empire State Corporation, Buffalo, New York ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of all of the 
v
°ting shares of Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, Buffalo, 
New York ("M&T"), and First Trust & Deposit Company, Syracuse, New York 
( First Trust"); and all (except directors' qualifying shares) of the 
v
°ting shares of two new national banks into which it is proposed that 
N a
tional Commercial Bank and Trust Company, Albany, New York ("National 
Commercial"); and First National Bank in Yonkers, Yonkers, New York 
( First Yonkers"), will be merged. Inasmuch as the two new national 
b a n l
<s have significance only as vehicles for accomplishing the acquisi-
tion of the banks to be merged into them, the two latter proposals are 
t r
eated herein as proposals to acquire shares of the two existing banks. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
V a s
 given to, and views and recommendations requested of, the Comptroller 

o r 
- 2 -
°f the Currency and the New York State Superintendent of Banks. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application, and the New York 
State Banking Board advised this Board of its action, consistent with 
a
 recommendation of the Superintendent (a copy of which was also pro-
v
lded to the Board), approving an application with respect to the same 
transaction pursuant to Article III-A of the New York Banking Law. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be sub-
s t
antially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
v
«Uch in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
e
 transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to h 
D
e served. In each case the Board is required to take into consider-
a t
ion the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
n e
eds of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in the State of New York control, in the aggregate, 
ab 
u
out 82 per cent of the total deposits held by all commercial banks in 

-3-
the State.i/ Applicant would rank eleventh in size among the State's 
banking organizations, and would control 2.4 per cent of the deposits 
held by all banks in the State, 
Of Applicant's four proposed subsidiaries, all except First 
Yonkers ($122 million deposits) are located in upstate New York.-' 
The 
H offices of First Yonlcers are located in Yonkers, a city in Westchester 
County with a population of over 200,000. Two other banks have offices 
in Yonkers, but First Yonkers, as the only bank headquartered in the city, is 
fc
he only one permitted under New York lav; to establish new offices therein. 
First Yonkers ranks fourth in size among banks headquartered in Westchester 
County, and twenty-sixth in size among all banks in the New York City area. 
M&T ($854 million deposits) is the second largest of five banks 
in Buffalo and of 33 banks in the State's Ninth Banking District; National 
Commercial ($712 million deposits) is the largest of five banks in 
Albany and of 36 banks in the Fourth Banking District; and First Trust 
($263 million deposits) is the largest of five banks in Syracuse and of 
2 5
 banks in the Sixth Banking District. The head office of First Trust 
Syracuse is located in the center of the State; M&T is headquartered 
J ^ " 
... i: , 
n
 Buffalo, about 150 miles west of Syracuse; National Commercial's 
headquarters in Albany is about 150 miles east of Syracuse; 
i 
fr 
— . 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of December 31, 1968, 
justed to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
y
 the Board to date. 
2/ 
The term "upstate New York", as used herein, refers to that area of 
h e
 State outside the five boroughs of New York City and Westchester, 
a s
s a u , and Suffolk Counties. 

2 6 8 
-4-
and First Yonkers' head office is about 150 miles south of Albany. Each 
of the upstate banks operates a substantial branch system (M&T, 67 offices; 
National Commercial, 54 offices; First Trust, 31 offices) and competes 
throughout a large portion of the Banking District in which it is located, 
hut no significant competition appears to exist between any two of the 
u
Pstate banks, or between any of the three and First Yonkers. The closest 
offices of any two of the banks are located about 50 miles apart, and 
this geographical dispersion is reflected in the fact that none of the 
four banks derives a significant amount of its deposits or loans from 
areas served by any of the others. 
In view of the foregoing, it does not appear that any significant 
listing competition would be eliminated by the present proposal. 
There 
a r e
> nevertheless, significant competitive issues raised. The three pro-
Posed upstate subsidiaries are, respectively, the largest (M&T), second 
largest (National Commercial), and fifth largest (First Trust) independent 
b
anks in all of upstate New York, and, since the third and fourth largest 
independent banks upstate are located in Albany and Buffalo, they are the 
three largest upstate banks which could conceivably be united under common 
ownership without eliminating direct existing competition. They are lo-
cated in three of the most significant commercial centers upstate, and 
e
ach controls a large portion of the banking resources of the area which 
it* 
serves. Based on market shares of the three banks as of June 1968, 
A
PPlicant would control 30 per cent of the deposits and 34 per cent of the 
°f£ices in the Buffalo area, 39 per cent of the deposits and 28 per cent 
o f
 the offices in the Albany area, and 29 per cent of the deposits and 

2683 
-5-
3/ 
36 per cent of the offices in the Syracuse area. 
Each of the banks is 
also a significant competitor throughout much of the Banking District in 
which it is located: H&T has offices in six of the eight counties of 
the Ninth District; National Commercial operates in 13 of the 15 counties 
the Fourth District; and First Trust has offices serving three of the 
s
ix counties in the Sixth Banking District. 
In the broad geographic area 
e
ncotnpassed by the three Districts, uhich has a population of over four 
m
illion, Applicant would control about 25 per cent of banking deposits and 
°ver 24 per cent of banking offices. 
In past decisions (e.g., Reconsideration of Application of BT 
Sgg-Yorlc Corporation. 1963 Federal Reserve Bulletin 225), the Board has 
indicated its concern with respect to proposals uhich would tend to con-
centrate in a single organization control of leading banks in several of 
a
 State's significant banking markets. The basis for that concern lies-' 
the effect which such a proposal has in foreclosing possible alternatives 
which could lead to deconcentration of those markets, in addition to the 
f
act that approval of such proposals would shortly lead to domination of 
a l 1
 of a State's significant banking markets by the same few banking organ-
nations. 
In the BT New York matter, supra, at 229, the Board said: 
— — — — — — 
"Not only is the acquisition of leading banks in significant 
banking markets by an organization of Applicant's size of con-
cern because of its effect in expanding the size of such organization, 
J The Buffalo area consists of Erie and Niagara Counties; the Albany area 
composed of Albany and Schenectady Counties, the southern portion of 
aratoga County, and the western portion of Rensselaer County; and the 
^ a c u s e area consists of Onondaga County and adjacent areas in Cayuga County. 

2684 
but also because of its concurrent effect of eliminating 
an institution which could serve as a source of future compe-
tition for such organizations, either by remaining independent 
or by becoming a participant in affiliation with one or more 
other institutions." 
The affiliation of at least two potential holding company lead 
banks, as Applicant proposes, unduly and unnecessarily would reduce the 
already small number of probable upstate holding company formations. M&T 
and National Commercial are both potential lead banks in holding company 
systems that could effectively compete across District lines - a major 
8°al allegedly underlying Applicant's proposed formation. Accordingly, we 
r e
ject Applicant's view that the competitive forces in operation within 
the upper New York State banking markets are such as to preclude successful 
operation of a holding company system of lesser size than that proposed 
f
°r First Empire. 
Only by the introduction into banking markets as highly 
concentrated as Buffalo and Albany of new and substantial competitors will 
the public - as distinguished from the institutions involved - be truly 
served. In our judgment, both M&T and National Commercial can, in a manner 
consistent with their institutional interests, serve the public interest 
a s
 members of separate and competing systems. Similarly, First Trust, 
^hile perhaps not sufficiently sizable to assume the role of a lead bank 
a holding company system, is capable of participating as a principal 
Member of a separately competing system. To join both potential lead banks, 
a s
 veil as First Trust, in a single holding company would, in our judgment, 
t e
nd to perpetuate existing concentration and impede the development of 
competing regional organizations in upstate New York. 

Applicant views its proposal as competitively desirable in 
order to prevent the domination of upstate banking markets by New York 
City-based holding companies and by Marine Midland Banks, Inc. 
("Marine 
Midland"), which has subsidiaries in each of the upstate Banking Districts, 
aa well as a large New York City subsidiary. To the extent that Applicant's 
thesis implies that holding company affiliation is an essential ingredient 
to the maintenance of strong market positions by M&T, National Commercial, 
and First Trust, we reject that argument. On the contrary, we believe the 
record clearly establishes that the present relative position of each of 
these banks in their respective markets precludes any conclusion but that 
e a
c h is a formidable competitor within its own District and would remain 
such as an independent institution. Even were we to accept the premise 
that affiliation with other banks is necessary to enable these upstate 
banks to compete more effectively with either Marine Midland or one or 
m
°re of the three large New York City-based bank holding company systems, 
approval of this proposal, involving the two largest independent banks 
u
Pstate, and three of the five largest, is not necessary to accomplish that 
result. The fact that consummation of the proposal would enable the upstate 
banks to better compete with larger organizations, therefore, does not 
justify the anticompetitive effects of the method which Applicant has 
chosen to attain that end. 
C o n s u m m a t i o n of the p r o p o s a l w o u l d e l i m i n a t e the " h o m e o f f i c e 
Protection" currently accorded the cities of Yonkers and Syracuse under 
N e
w Y o r k l a w , t h e r e b y o p e n i n g those c i t i e s to b r a n c h i n g by other b a n k s in 

2686 
-8-
those areas. While these effects are entitled to some favorable weight, 
they are insignificant in comparison to the substantial anticompetitive 
effects heretofore discussed. The New York City area in which Yonkers 
is located is well served by a large number of competing banks, which are 
accessible, with only minor inconvenience, to Yonkers
1
 residents. 
There 
are f e w banks in the Sixth Banking District, not already located in Syracuse, 
which are of such size as to be likely to be attracted by the opportunity 
t o
 branch into the area, particularly if the established position of First 
Trust were enhanced by its status as a subsidiary of Applicant. 
For the reasons herein discussed, it is our conclusion that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal may have the effect of substantially 
l e
ssening competition in upstate areas of the State of New York in which 
n
°ne, or only one, of Applicant's proposed subsidiaries presently operates 
ky frustrating the development of separate banking organizations which, 
by 
e
ntering such markets, could serve as a means of promoting deconcentration 
therein 
The proposal would also tend to broaden present market concentra-
tion into regional concentration by uniting under common ownership three 
u
Pstate banks which are among the dominant banks in their respective markets. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
applicant. a new corporation, would begin operations with a satisfactory 
financial condition. Its management, which would be drawn primarily from 
th
e
 three upstate banks, is considered competent, and its prospects would 
b e
 favorable. 
The three upstate banks are all in satisfactory financial 
E d i t i o n . with capable management and favorable prospects. 

2687 
-9-
Flrst Yonkers is in reasonably satisfactory financial condition. 
Its capital, however, is scraewhat below desirable levels, a condition 
which Applicant has assured would be remedied in the event that the present 
a
Pplication were approved. Pending the Board's ruling on the present pro-
posal, M&T has provided management assistance to First Yonkers, and Appli-
cant has indicated that additional management would be provided for the 
bank as required. Prospects of the bank, which appear favorable in any 
e v
ent, would be somewhat improved by consummation of the proposal. 
B a s e d on the f o r e g o i n g , the b a n k i n g f a c t o r s , as they a p p l y to 
Applicant and the three u p s t a t e b a n k s , are r e g a r d e d as c o n s i s t e n t w i t h 
a
Pproval of the application, but provide no x^eight in support thereof. 
Th 
e
 assistance which Applicant would provide to First Yonkers in solving 
latter's management and capital problems results in favorable weight 
u
nder the banking factors as they relate to that bank. However, there is 
n
° reason to believe that such problems could not be solved without Appli-
C a n t
' s assistance, and these considerations therefore provide only slight 
V e
i8ht in support of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Each of 
th 
G
 three upstate cities is presently provided with a full line of banking 
S e r
vices by large banks and banking organizations located there, including 
Proposed upstate subsidiaries. Applicant's proposal would permit the 
faring of specialized loan skills among the subsidiary banks as needed in 
tVi 
e
 market served by one of the others, and would increase the capability 
the banks in supplying municipal bond financing, large loan participations, 

-10-
2tiSS 
and the services commonly provided by large banks, such as data processing, 
corporate trust, investment trust, and international banking services. 
Although quality services of these types are already available in each of 
markets, and are to some extent already provided by the three proposed 
u
Pstate subsidiaries, some benefits to the communities involved would re-
sult from the foreseeable improvements in the services offered by the 
three banks. 
The needs of the banking public in the New York City area, of 
Vj
hich Yonkers is a part, are adequately served by the large number of sub-
stantial banks competing in the area. The convenience of customers in 
the immediate Yonkers area, however, would to some extent be better served 
by 
consummation of the proposal. As a result of a lack of branching initia-
tive by First Yonkers, coupled with the fact that it is the only bank per-
m i
tted under New York law to branch within Yonkers, the number of persons 
banking office in Yonkers is substantially above that for Westchester 
c
ounty as a whole. Consummation of Applicant's proposal could lead to a 
m o r e
 aggressive branching policy by First Yonkers, and would open the 
Cl
-ty to branching by other Westchester County and New York City banks, 
thereby increasing the number of banking offices within the City. 
Applicant 
a
lso indicates that consummation of its proposal would result in a less 
conservative lending policy for First Yonkers, and in improvements in its 
E d i t i o n of other services. 
Considerations bearing upon the convenience and needs of the 
c
°mciunitles involved provide some weight in favor of approval of the 
Application. 

Summary and conclusion. - Consummation of Applicant's proposal 
w
ould foreclose significant potential competition in upstate areas of 
York a n d , as a r e s u l t , m a y h a v e the effect of s u b s t a n t i a l l y l e s s e n i n g 
;J:..:., ' 
competition in those areas. Considerations under the banking and con-
V e
nience and needs factors, while consistent with, and to some extent pro-
dding weight in favor of, approval of the application, fall far short of 
outweighing 
the proposal s anticompetitive effects. There are no significant 
benefits which would result from the proposal which could not be accomplished 
trough less anticompetitive means. 
On the basis of all relevant facts contained in the record, and 
i n
 the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is 
°
Ur
 judgment that the proposed action would not be in the public interest 
a n
d that the application should be denied. 
A
^gust 26, 1969. 

2690 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR 1IAISEL 
I concur in the denial of the application in the form in which 
it was submitted. The Statement of Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill in support of the Board's denial action properly describes the 
serious anticompetitive effects which would result if the application 
ttere approved--effects which, I agree, are not outweighed by any other 
considerations presented in the record. 
The affiliation of these four banks would injure competition 
b
V eliminating potential entrants into the Buffalo, Syracuse, and Albany 
banking markets. All three of these banking markets are highly concen-
trated. Currently few likely entrants into these areas exist. 
Further-
m o r
e , since M&T and National Commercial are potential lead banks in 
statewide holding companies, the proposed affiliation would foreclose the 
Possibility of at least one additional statewide holding company that 
could successfully enter markets elsewhere throughout the State. 
However, I believe that the Statement of my three associate 
Members is faulty insofar as it does not make clear to the Applicant that 
if the application were reshaped, consummation of part of the Applicant's 
Proposal would serve the public interest and, therefore, could be approved. 
T
he Board, through a process of self-denial, has in the past, with respect 
t o
 holding company formation proposals, adopted a policy of approving or 
denying the entire proposal. Such a policy makes it most difficult for 
t h e
 applicant to ascertain the Board's views as to whether a less inclusive 
a
PPlication might so decrease the anticompetitive aspects as to enable it 

to meet the test of the public interest. While such abnegation may 
be admirable in many cases, since it requires only a yes or no answer 
by the Board and avoids offering advice which may or may not be desired 
by the applicant, it appears to me that it should not be a rule observed 
under all circumstances. This is especially so when the result, as in 
this case, may lead to a "second-best" decision. When the public interest 
can be served by procedural changes, the Board should free itself of its 
s e
lf-imposed restrictions. 
The Board decision in this case is "second-best" because the 
Urination of a smaller holding company would better serve the public 
interest than either an approval of the current application or the failure 
t o
 form any holding company. I believe the Board should have made this 
c l e
a r i n 
l t s 
d e c i s i o n # 
The key difficulty in this proposal should be clearly recognized, 
stems from the proposal to affiliate M&T and National Commercial in 
i-V 
e
 same organization. Here the proposal to include First Trust, First 
inkers and either National Commercial or M&T, the conclusions reached 
a
bove would have to be altered. The anticompetitive effects in Buffalo 
A l b a n y , r e s u l t i n g from the e l i m i n a t i o n of l i k e l y e n t r a n t s , w o u l d dis-
appear; and c o m p e t i t i o n w o u l d b e e n h a n c e d b y the e s t a b l i s h m e n t of an 
holding company that could enter other markets throughout the 
S
tate. Furthermore, the possibility of establishing still another state-
rs holding 
company headed by the excluded bank, whether M&T or National 
C(
*imercial, would remain. 

From the public interest point of view, the potential affiliation, 
if it excluded either M&T or National Commercial, would be highly 
d e
sirable. Unfortunately, the options which the Board has traditionally 
followed in such cases do not allow for expression of approval of only 
Part of the proposal. In this circumstance, denial is a proper decision. 
Hoxjever, a preferred alternative to denial of the entire proposal would 
have been to approve the proposed formation contingent on the exclusion 
either National Commercial or M&T from the holding company. 
Considerable time, effort and monies have been invested by the 
Proponents in developing and submitting this application. It is one that 
if 
Properly implemented in part would be of major value to the people of 
the State of New York. For the Board not to make this clear and not to 
indicate to the Applicant that a new proposal properly shaped and cor-
seted would be assured a favorable reception is unreasonable. 
Moreover, 
t^e extensive study undertaken by the Board in this case and in earlier 
C a
ses in New York State would make such assurances a simple matter. 
I believe that the Board should have ruled that consummation 
that part of Applicant's proposal which the Board has determined x/ould 
S e
rve the public interest should not be subjected to further procedural 
re
<luirements or decisional action by the Board. Rather, Applicant should 
thi s decision be given the opportunity, if it so desires, to consum-
m a t
e so rauch of its proposal as would be consistent with the Board's 
a t l a
lysis and judgment of this case. 
Aug 
U s
t 26, 1969. 

2S<}3 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF CHAIRMAN HARTIN 
AND GOVERNORS MITCHELL AND DAANE 
The significant difference of opinion between the majority 
and the minority in this case has to do with the effect of the proposal 
°n the banking structure in New York State. The majority's disapproval 
hinges on the judgment that at least two, and perhaps three, of the pro-
Posed holding company affiliates are potential lead banks in additional 
Potential holding companies, and the further assumption that the larger 
the number of entrants, regardless of their nature, the more competitive 
the banking structure. We do not concur with these conjectural views. 
While one could not say categorically that M&T, National Commercial 
°
r
 First T r u s t are n o t large e n o u g h to b e c o m e lead b a n k s in some sort of 
e w
 Y o r k h o l d i n g c o m p a n y , in our o p i n i o n the instant p r o p o s a l is n o t in-
consistent w i t h the p r e s e n t sized lead b a n k s and h o l d i n g c o m p a n i e s in 
These are Bankers Trust New York Corporation, whose six sub-
sidiary banks hold deposits of $6.0 billion, including $5.6 billion in its 
l e
ad bank, Bankers Trust Company, New York City; Marine Midland Banks whose 
1 2
 banks hold deposits of $5.0 billion, including $2.0 billion in Marine 
Midland Grace Trust Company, New York City, and $1.3 billion in Marine 
^dland Trust Company of Western New York, Buffalo; Charter New York 
Cn 
r
P o r a t i o n , w h o s e five b a n k s h o l d d e p o s i t s of $4.0 b i l l i o n , i n c l u d i n g 
$3 
y j
-
7
 billion in its lead bank, Irving Trust Company, New York City; Bank 
^ New York Company, whose six operating subsidiary banks hold deposits 
$2.4 billion, including $1.4 billion in its lead bank, Bank of New York, 
York City; and Lincoln First Banks, whose five banks hold deposits of 

2 6 
- 2 -
$1.6 billion, including $744 million in its lead bank, Lincoln Rochester 
Trust Company, Rochester. This extant and evolving pattern is one sought 
b
y the banking authorities in New York State and sufficiently appealing 
the corporate interests to impel action reasonably calculated to 
conform to this pattern. 
Congress has not charged the Board with taking the initiative 
In attempting to mold a banking system which conforms to its subjective 
standards or to particularized statutory standards. It has said, in 
effect, if business motives and advantages result in the formation of a 
holding company, a merger, a new bank or any other particular structural 
changes it is the supervisory agency's responsibility to deny the acqui-
sition if the public interest is adversely affected. The majority's asser 
tion that these two or three units can and will become more potent, 
competitive influences throughout New York State if this application is 
denied is, in our judgment, highly conjectural and reaches well beyond the 
P r e s e r v a t i o n of the p u b l i c i n t e r e s t . 
A u
8ust 26, 1969 

B D A R D OF 
G O V E R N • RS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
8/26/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 26, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
On December 16, 1968, the Conference of Presidents qf the 
Federal Reserve Banks approved the recommendation of the Subcommittee 
of Counsel on Fiscal Agency Operations that the book-entry procedure 
for United States Treasury securities be applied to such securities 
in the System Open Market account. 
Incident to this action, the Con-
ference also approved the recommendation of the Subcommittee of 
Counsel for an amendment to the "Plan for Securing Federal Reserve 
Notes by Pledge of Participations (Undivided Interests) in Direct 
Obligations of the United States in System Open Market Account" 
("the Plan") (F.R.L.S. <[2025.20). 
The approval of the Conference of Presidents for book-entry 
treatment of System Account securities and for the amendment to the 
Plan was premised on the understanding that Subpart 0 of Treasury 
Department Circular No. 300, the Treasury regulation covering book-
entry procedure for United States Treasury securities, would be amended 
to extend the book-entry procedure to Treasury securities in third 
Party accounts. 
Subpart 0 has been amended effective July 15, 1969, 
so that the book-entry procedure, which prior to that date was appli-
cable only to Treasury securities deposited with Reserve Banks, as 
fiscal agents of the United States, (i) as collateral pledged to a 
Reserve Bank (in Its individual capacity) for advances by it; (ii) as 
collateral pledged to the United States in connection with Treasury 
Tax and Loan Accounts and public deposits under Treasury Department 
Circulars Nos. 92 or 176; (iii) by a member bank for its sole account 
and in lieu of the safekeeping of definitive Treasury securities, is 
now also applicable to Treasury securities deposited with a Reserve 
Bank as a pledge or security for various obligations of the owners 
°f the securities to third parties. The amended Subpart 0 expands 
book-entry procedure by providing for the Reserve Banks to act in a 
dual capacity with respect to securities deposited with them, that is, 

to act simultaneously in an individual capacity and as fiscal agent 
of the United States. In the latter capacity, a Reserve Bank may 
apply the book-entry procedure to Treasury securities deposited in 
accounts with it in its individual capacity, notwithstanding appli-
cation of the hook-entry procedure to such securities. The amended 
Subpart 0 provides that application of the book-entry procedure shall 
not derogate from or adversely affect the relationships that would 
otherwise exist between a Reserve Bank in its individual capacity 
and its depositor with respect to the deposits involved. 
Concerning the proposed application of book-entry procedure 
to the System Account securities, Section 16 of the Federal Reserve 
Act (12 U.S.C. section 412) provides in relevant part that a Reserve 
Bank which applies to the local Federal Reserve Agent for such amount 
of Federal Reserve notes as it may require shall tender to the local 
Federal Reserve Agent "collateral in amount equal to the sum of the 
Federal Reserve notes thus applied for and issued pursuant to such 
application. The collateral security thus offered shall be [gold 
certificates, specified types of paper, etc.] . . . or direct obliga-
tions of the United States". The Subcommittee of Counsel has expressed 
to the Presidents' Conference the opinion that Treasury securities in 
book-entry form are validly issued direct obligations of the United 
States within the meaning of Section 16, and that the pledge of a 
specified dollar amount of such direct obligations pursuant to the 
provisions of the revised Subpart 0 may be validly effected by appro-
priate entry in the book-entry account of the amount of securities 
pledged. The Subcommittee of Counsel further expressed the opinion 
that Section 16 of the Act may be interpreted as permitting Federal 
Reserve Agents to whom the collateral security for notes issued is 
tendered to make reasonable arrangements for the safekeeping of such 
collateral with the Reserve Banks. Presumably, it was for this^ 
reason that the present Plan was formulated making use of the "joint 
custody concept" (Federal Reserve Agent and Federal Reserve Bank) 
with respect to Treasury securities that are physically pledged. 
Enclosed are Subpart 0 as amended, effective July 15, 1969, 
and a proposed revised System Account Plan which, if adopted, would 
make Treasury securities in the System Account subject to the "joint 
control of the Federal Reserve Agent and Federal Reserve Bank", as 
distinguished from the "joint custody" concept now provided for^in 
the Plan. Under the proposed revision in the Plan, securities in 
the System Account while in book-entry form would be held subject to 
the joint instructions of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and 
the Federal Reserve Agent at New York, thus paralleling the provision 
of the present Plan that such securities in tangible form be held in 
the joint custody of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the 
Federal Reserve Agent at New York. 

-3-
2 6 3 7 
The Committee on Fiscal Agency Operations of the Conference 
of First Vice Presidents, successor to the Committee of the same name 
of the Conference of Presidents, has, through letter of June 20, 1969, 
from its Chairman, Mr. William F. Trieber, recommended application of 
the book-entry procedure to the System Account securities and, inci-
dent thereto, approval of the revised Plan generally in the form attached. 
Accordin3ly, the Board would appreciate receiving "'•our views regarding 
the proposed application of book-entry procedure and adoption of the 
revised Plan, including an indication of whether you approve of such 
proposals. Conversion into book-entry form of the securities in the 
System Account will be effected, assuming approval of such proposal, 
on a date to be determined by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Notice of such conversion shall be given by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York to all Reserve Banks, Federal Reserve Agents, and the 
Board of Governors. Copies of this letter are being sent to all 
Federal Reserve Bank Presidents and Federal Reserve Agents. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
E n c l o s u r e 
TO THE PRESIDE!TS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND ALL FEDEIAL RESERVE AGENTS 

o r 
? ;< 
PLAN FOR SECURING FEDERAL RESERVE NOTES BY PLEDGE 
OF PARTICIPATIONS (UNDIVIDED INTERESTS) IN DIRECT 
OBLIGATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES III SYSTEM OPEN 
MARKET ACCOUNT 
theiif-Hespee fc£ve-is» feezes fce-Eay-ap?eafc-?--5peei£ie 
Substitute (1) below. 
of 
C
1
) 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York (a) shall, in the absence 
dep 0
P
?'
C i a l
 circumstances as determined by Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
Acc0
 
d i r e c t
 obligations of the United States in the System Open Market 
into a bcolc-entry account (maintained by Federal Reserve Bank of 
as fiscal agent of the United States under the book-entry procedure 
8hali v
S h e d b y 
S u b
P
a r t 
0 
o f
 Treasury Department Circular No. 300) which 
h e
 subject to the joint instructions of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Into
 
k 
G n d 
t h e 
F e d e r a l
 Reserve Agent at New York, and (b) shall deliver 
o t h e r
a n d l l o l d 
i n
 J
o i n t
 custody with the Federal Reserve Agent at New York all 
in s
 
c e c u
r i t l e s in the System Open Market Account which are not so deposited 
^Pom*
1 a b o o k
-
e n t
* y account. Direct obligations of the United States so 
ea
ch
 
e d 
i a 
s u c h 
a
 hook-entry account are to be held for the account of 
6 a
ch 
twelve Federal Reserve Banks and of the Federal Reserve A^ent at 
8
° h
 
C a n i c
 as their respective interests nay appear, and other securities 
i n
 joint custody are to be held for account of each of the twelve 
Reserve Banks as their respective interests may appear. 
Specific 
6 8 
n o t 
b e
 allocated to individual Federal Reserve Banks; but 
h
Sys. 
in the System Open Market Account (hereinafter referred to as 
M-SQ
 G l n
 Account") will be owned by the Federal Reserve Banks subject to any 
of t?
e
 that may exist under the provisions of this plan. The participations 
Acc 
respective Federal Reserve Banks in the securities in the System 
Open .
nt
 shall be determined as provided, from time to time, by the Federal 
Market Committee. 

2 G 9 9 
-2-
u 
(2) Any Federal Reserve Bank (hereinafter referred to as the "Pledging 
ob?
,C
 ^ 
P
l e d
C
e a
 specified dollar amount of its participation in direct 
Rations of the United States (hereinafter referred to as "direct obliga-
the System Account with the Federal Reserve Agent at such Bank as 
lateral security for Federal Reserve notes, and such Federal Reserve Agent 
y accept such pledges and release participations from such pledges, in 
Ped°
rC
*
anCe
 
t*
10
 provisions of this plan; provided, however, that each 
l t
c
* " l Reserve Bank shall whenever practicable leave unpledged a portion of 
S u
 
S a
i d participation equal to at least 2 per cent thereof, and shall take 
s * steps as may be practicable to obtain the release of a portion of its 
tio 
ticipation if At any time the unpledged portion of its said participa-
u
 shall become less than 2 per cent thereof. 
t0 
Note, - The only change in the Plan made by S-1867 was with respect 
Paragraph (2). The figure "2" was twice inserted in lieu of the figure "5" 
S e 
(3) Whenever any Pledging Bank wishes to pledge as collateral 
J
 U r i t
y for its Federal Reserve notes a specified dollar amount of its 
W
 
p a t i o n 
i n 
s u c h 
d i r e c t
 obligations, it will deliver to the Federal 
jC^'
7 2
 Agent at the Pledging Bank an appropriate document evidencing the 
9 s 
that a specified dollar amount of such participation is thereby pledged 
c
°llateral security for its Federal Reserve notes. 
sUcj 
(4) Whenever any Pledging Bank wishes to obtain the release from 
ob].»
l
 ^
e t i
S e of a specified dollar amount of its participation in such direct 
pecj
J
"£
Q
tions and such release will not reduce the collateral for the outstanding 
^de**^ ^
e s e r v c 
n
°tes of such bank below the requirements of section 15 of the 
^ 
serve Act, the Federal Reserve Agent at such bank may execute 
Oliver to such bank an appropriate document evidencing such release. 
* 
<5)--WheHeve¥-feheFe-is-any-sueh-pledge-by-j-eF-svieh-Jfelea9e-te7-aRy 
^^
6Rl
"AeeeHHfeT-oueh-baRk-aHd-fehe-Fedet-al-ReseHve-Ageafe-afe-6H6h-baHk-(HHlass 
^^^'^e-FedeFal-Reeerve-BaHk-of-New-VeF^-skail-iisffiaaiateiy-give-fcelegsaphis 
'fed 
^ l l '-Reserve-BaRk-e.5^.New-V9Fk-aRd-tkG«FGda^al-.nGna2ve-Ag3R^-afe-NGW~¥oFk 
"ha va . h e e g i ve 4 - r© t ia g - feke "j e© f, 
{ 6 ) — The-Federal-Reaesve-BaRk-ef-New-Vo'jk-and-She-Federal-Reserve 
^ 
"
pl
aH,-aRd-6hall-(9Rk3eefe-t9-tke-UGlGvanfe-30Rditions-0f-papagrapk-7-kG5e©f> 

2700 
-3-
Substitute (5) and (6) below. 
(5) Whenever there is any such pledge by, or such release to, any 
e
aeral Reserve Bank of any such participation in direct obligations in the 
ystem Account, such bank and the Federal Reserve Agent at such bank (unless 
he the Federal Reserve Bank of New York) shall immediately give telegraphic 
n
°tice to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Federal Reserve Agent 
a
t New York of such pledge or release and of the amount under pledge after 
Acting such change. Any such notice sent to Federal Reserve Bank of 
York and the Federal Reserve Agent at New York shall also constitute 
°tice to Federal Rererve Bank of New York as fiscal agent of the United 
Hate 
dir 
-es of such pledge or such release, as the case may be, in regard to 
^ect obligations of the United States in the System Account deposited 
er the book-entry procedure. Any such pledge or release shall be effec-
g t
V e
 when the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Federal Reserve Agent 
•New York shall have received notice thereof. 
^ 
(6) The Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Federal Reserve 
j ,
n t
 
Ne\7 York shall permit additional System Account securities to be 
>ub yvered into their joint custody or deposited in the book-entry account 
^ J e c t to their joint instructions, to be held pursuant to the provisions 
her*"*
1
-
8 
a n c l s
hall (subject to the relevant conditions of paragraph 7 
J°int custody or from such book-entry account in order to effectuate 
?eof) permit any System Account securities to be withdrawn from their 
a JJt custody or from such book-entry a< 
^orizjed System Account transactions. 
t 
(7) If any transaction in the System Account (including any 
^-location of the securities) would reduce the participation of a Fledging 
in direct obligations in the System Account below the specified dollar 
ViJJ
n t
 
such participation \>;hich shall have been pledged in accordance 
fed
 
t l l G
 P
r o v i s i o n s
 
this plan (as indicated in the notice given to the 
'aerai R e serve Bank of New York and the Federal Reserve Agent at New York 
Provided in p a r a g r a p h 5 of this p l a n ) , o n e or the o t h e r of the f o l l o w i n g 
be°^
e d u r e s
»
 
a t 
t h e
 option of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, shall 
followed: 
(a) The Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall notify the Pledging 
ted
 
S n d 
t h e 
F e d e r a l
 Agent at such Pledging Bank of such contemplated 
s
h ^
C t i o n
>
 a n d
 the Pledging Bank and the Federal Reserve Agent at such Bank 
^ 
take the necessary steps to reduce the specified dollar amount of 
atn Participation of the Pledging Bank which shall have been pledged to an 
Ban]
Unt n o t 
i n
 excess of the amount which the participation of the Pledging 
U o
 
l n 
d i r e c t
 obligations in the System Account will be after the consumma-
a t l d
n
 of fcuch transaction and shall notify the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
the 
federal Reserve Agent at New York that this has been done, before 
transaction in the System Account shall be effected; or 

(b) 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall, contemporaneously 
l
th and as a part of such transaction, make a deposit in the Agents' Gold 
e
*tificate Fund to the credit of the Federal Reserve Agent at such Pledging 
nk in an amount equivalent to the amount by which such transaction reduces 
he participation of the Pledging Bank in direct obligations in the System 
c
tount below the specified dollar amount of such participation which shall 
QVe been pledged in accordance with the provisions of this plan. 
The 
tference between the amount so deposited and the Pledging Bank's share 
- the proceeds of such transaction shall be adjusted by credit from the 
- Re serve Bank of New York to the Pledging Bank, or by credit from 
Pledging Bank to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as the case may be, 
rough the interdistrict Settlement Fund. The Board of Governors, the 
edging Bank, and the Agent at the Pledging Bank Jill take such action as 
y be necessary or appropriate to effect, complete, or confirm any credit 
"om the Pledging Bank to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York incident to 
, u
ch adjustment. 
v 
(8) 
This plan shall become effective on such date as may be fixed 
* the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System after it has been 
ky
 
t n e
 Board and has been agreed to by all Federal Reserve Banks 
all Federal Reserve Agents. 

Item No. 6 
8/26/69 
for immediate release. 
August 26, 1969. 
The Federal Reserve System today activated emergency procedures 
to facilitate efforts of banks in Hurricane Camille disaster areas to 
accommodate the credit needs of their customers for reconstruction and 
rehabilitation purposes. 
Under arrangements established by the System's Board of Governors 
in Washington, the Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta and Richmond, whose 
districts encompass the disaster areas, are authorized: 
1. To relax penalties on member banks for failure to maintain 
the reserve balances they are required to keep with the Reserve Banks. 
2. To make appropriate credit available to disaster-area banks, 
to help them meet the unusual and exigent circumstances in their areas, 
u
nder varicua provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and regulations of 
the Board applicable to emergency conditions. 
