Minutes for February 20, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 1/ 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
1/ Meeting with the Federal Advisory Council. 

A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C. , at 10:30 a.m. 
on Tuesday, February 20, 1968. 
PRESENT 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr . Ma i s e 1 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenvon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Messrs. Simmen, Moore, Still, Mayer, 
Wilkinson, Craft, Fox, Nason, Conn, 
Stewart, and Larkin, Members of the 
Federal Advisory Council from the 
First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, 
Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, 
and Twelfth Federal Reserve Districts, 
respectively 
• 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Counc ii 
The following officers had been elected by the Federal 
Advisory Council to serve for the year 1968: 
President 
John A. Mayer 
Vice President 
J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. 
Secretary 
Herbert V. Prochnow 
Assistant Secretary 
William J. Korsvik 
The following had been elected members of the Executive 
Committee to serve with the President (Mr. Mayer) and Vice 
President (Mr. Wilkinson): 
John Simmen, Harold F. Still, Jr., 
and Robert H. vStewart, III. 

681 
The following members of the Council had begun their 
service as such at the beginning of 1968 and were attending their 
first meeting of the Council: 
George S. Moore, Chairman of the Board, First National 
City Bank, New York, New York 
George S. Craft, Chairman of the Board, Trust Company 
of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia 
John Fox, Chairman of the Board, Mercantile Trust 
Company National Association, St. 
Louis, Missouri 
Philip H. Nason, President, First National Bank, 
St.. Paul, Minnesota 
Jack T. Conn, Chairman of the Board, Fidelity 
National Bank and Trust Company, 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
Another newly-appointed Council member, David M. Kennedy, 
Chairman of the Board of Continental Illinois National Bank and 
Trust Company of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, was unable to be 
Present at this meeting of the Council. 
In his absence the 
Seventh District was represented by Mr. Prochnow. 
In advance of today's meeting the Council had submitted 
a memorandum containing its replies to questions that had been 
suggested by the Board for discussion. 
The memorandum also con-
tained the following prefatory paragraph: 
Although the Council will attempt to respond to the 
questions set forth in the agenda, we wish to preface our 
replies by stating that this meeting of the Council takes 
place in an atmosphere of impending crisis of confidence 
in the dollar greater than at any time in the Council's 
recent history. We have set forth with all the urgency 
we can summon our views on the necessity for a reduction 
in government expenditures abroad and at home to protect 
2/20/68 
- 2 -

2/20/68 
- 3 -
our gold supply and to maintain a domestic price level 
that would sustain the competitiveness of our exports. 
Concurrently, we again urge the proposed tax increase. 
Failing these measures, a crisis of confidence in the 
dollar will occur. 
In the absence of resolute action 
on our part, the decision will be made for us by those 
who hold our present and potential dollar liabilities. 
President Mayer stated that the paragraph had been included 
because the Council felt strongly about the seriousness of the 
situation and believed that this expression of opinion by a group 
°f representative bankers might be of some use to the Board. 
Chairman Martin replied that the Board appreciated knowing 
that the Council urged the proposed tax increase. Anything the 
members could do that would help to obtain the passage of the 
legislation would be helpful. 
It was a symbolic issue at the 
Present time as well as a matter of figures. 
Governor Brimmer then raised the question whether an effort 
should be made to share the views of the Council with others in a 
systematic way. From discussion with the Board's staff he under-
stood that that had been done from time to time in the past, that 
certain occasions the views of the Council had been transmitted 
t o Congressional committees, and that in several instances resolu-
tions of the Council were included in the Board's Annual Reports, 
example, in support of bank holding company legislation. 
He 
Presented for consideration whether the Council might want to 
c°nsider adopting a practice of making the essence of its views 

713 
2/20/68 
- 4 -
on important issues available to the public. There were some 
elements of risk in doing that on an ad hoc basis in terms of 
specific legislation, for that might have aspects of lobbying. 
Governor Daane commented that, as Chairman Martin had said, 
it would be useful for the Council members to do everything they 
could on the tax question, both individually and as a group. How-
ever, he would have reservations about releasing material indicat-
ing that the Council was predicting a dollar crisis. 
It was helpful 
for the Board to have a report reflecting the views of the Council, 
but he would be apprehensive about issuing any release containing 
the language of the prefatory paragraph. 
Chairman Martin agreed that it would be unfortunate if the 
language of the paragraph were made public, and President Mayer 
said that such a possibility had not been considered by the Council 
members. 
It had occurred to the Council that this was something 
the Chairman might use within Governmental circles, as his judgment 
dictated, to buttress his own arguments. Conceivably it might be 
shown by the Chairman to individual members of the Congress. 
But 
the Council had not thought of the statement as something that 
w°uld be made a matter of public record. 
Mr. Moore suggested that it might meet the points that had 
been mentioned if the Council were to pass a resolution, which could 
b 
* 
u e transmitted 
to the proper people, supporting the view of the Board 
the proposed tax increase. 

2/20/68 
- 5 -
President Mayer asked for the -judgment of the Board as to 
the value of such a resolution, and Chairman Martin replied that he 
thought it would have value. The problem was one of precedent; the 
real question was whether this was a situation such as to warrant 
initiating such a procedure. 
In further discussion of what had been done at times in the 
Past, Governor Brimmer repeated his understanding that on various 
occasions the views of the Council had been transmitted to Con-
gressional committees, for example on the matter of bank holding 
company legislation. 
That resolution, he was informed, had been 
included in one of the Board's Annual Reports. 
He noted that his 
original question had been framed in terms of longer-run policy. 
In his opinion it would be unfortunate to proceed on an ad hoc 
Dasis. 
But if the Council felt that it would like to institute a 
general practice of making its views known on various subjects, 
that put the matter in a different perspective. 
For instance, the 
C°uncil might decide to present, after each meeting, a summary of 
i t s views. He agreed with Governor Daane and Chairman Martin that 
taking the Council's prefatory paragraph public at this time would 
a°t be desirable. 
On the longer-run issue, Governor Daane said he would have 
some reservations. 
He wondered whether it would not be preferable 
r the Council simply to express its views to the Board and not 
try to tailor them for public consumption. 

2/20/68 
- 6 -
Mr. Wilkinson noted that the Council might give two differ-
ent types of answers under those circumstances, and President Mayer 
agreed that the inhibitions could be substantial. 
Chairman Martin agreed with those comments. However, assum-
ing that the current situation was as grave as the Council implied 
in its prefatory paragraph, it seemed to him that it would be quite 
appropriate if the Council should want to express itself in the form 
of a resolution directed to the tax issue. 
If the Council was unani-
mous in its view on that score, such a resolution might be helpful. 
President Mayer expressed the view that Council members, in 
making reports to the boards of directors of their respective Reserve 
Banks, should not discuss the prefatory paragraph, at least to the 
extent that it referred to an impending crisis of confidence in the 
dollar. Such reports, he thought, should be limited essentially to 
cne Council's position on the proposed tax increase. 
Chairman Martin again expressed the view that it would be 
helpfui at this juncture if he could report to the Secretary of the 
Treasury or others that the Council was unanimous in urging the 
Proposed tax increase, and President Mayer asked whether there was 
a ny Council member who did not feel that the tax increase was 
Necessary at this time. 
Mr. Conn commented that he had been President of the 
American Bankers Association at the time the Association adopted 

2/20/68 
- 7 -
a policy statement urging enactment of the tax increase but also, 
in strong language, calling for a reduction of Government expendi-
tures and more fiscal restraint. He would not like to see the 
Council come out flatly on the matter of the tax increase without 
also urging reductions in non-defense expenditures. 
Mr. Moore said he thought all of the Council members would 
agree that any Council resolution should include some reference to 
the matters Mr. Conn had mentioned. 
In further discussion of the possibility of the Council's 
adopting such a resolution, Governor Robertson expressed reserva-
tions as to whether that would be wise. The Chairman of the Board, 
he said, should be free to transmit the views of the Council infor-
®ally to appropriate parties within the Government. However, he 
questioned whether those views should be reduced to the formality 
°f a resolution. 
The real value of the Council's meetings with the 
Board lay in the freedom of the members to say what they thought 
and for the Board to have the benefit of those views. The advisory 
r°le of the Council should be dominant. 
Mr. Nason observed that the use to be made of any resolution 
adopted by the Council would be within the Board's discretion, and 
Moore added that the Board could either keep such a resolution 
its files or use the resolution as it saw fit. 

2/20/68 
- 8 -
Governor Brimmer agreed that the Council should not pass 
any resolution on the assumption that it would in fact be shared 
with others outside the Board, for that decision should be left to 
the Board's discretion. 
President Mayer pointed out that an alternative would be 
simply to make the sense of the Council known to the Board, with 
the understanding that that could be used in the Board's discretion. 
Chairman Martin agreed that that alternative would also be 
appropriate. 
The matter could be left on that basis, with the 
understanding that the Board could use the language expressing the 
sense of the Council in any way that it saw fit. 
President Mayer commented that he thought the point Governor 
Robertson had made was a good one. When Council members left the 
meeting room, they should not carry to outside parties detailed 
reports on what had happened at the meeting. 
If that were done, 
the ability of the members to speak freely and the ability of the 
Board to probe what the Council members had said would be eroded. 
Chairman Martin said he appreciated the point. However, at 
Certain junctures there was no reason why, if the Council felt 
strongly on a particular subject, its views should not be trans-
mi-tted to the proper authorities. 
Mr. Larkin 
noted that the Council had made a very strong 
statement. He requested clarification as to how the memorandum was 
e*Pected to be handled. 

2/20/68 
- 9 -
President Mayer observed that the Council's statement was 
not in response to a question asked by the Board. He felt that the 
statement should not be transmitted to the boards of directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks, nor even to the Presidents. 
Chairman Martin expressed doubt that it would be feasible 
f°r the Board to prescribe what reports Council members should make 
to the directors of their respective Reserve Banks. 
Governor Mitchell then commented that the problem appeared 
t o relate almost exclusively to the language of two of the sentences 
in the prefatory paragraph. They could be modified somewhat, and 
the Council could still have an emphatic statement. 
Governor D3ane pointed out that in any event the Board had 
received the benefit of the Council's views. And he understood 
that the Council had given Chairman Martin the right to express the 
Sense of the Council to others in his judgment. 
On the matter of precedent, Chairman Martin turned to Mr. 
PL 
erman, who recalled that a number of Council resolutions had been 
adopt.ed over the years, although not in recent years. 
In 1948, for 
X ampl e j 
council adopted a resolution favoring the enactment of 
3 n k hiding company legislation. 
Such resolutions typically had 
G e n landed to the Board for such use as the Board might want to 
make of 
cnem. 
in addition, the Council had occasionally used 
atl°ther ^ 
type of communication, namely, a statement of views on 

&&3 
2/20/68 
- 1 0 -
credit policy. 
Those had been furnished to the Board for the Board's 
own purposes, sometimes with a notation that they might be helpful 
in connection with discussions of Treasury financing. While the use 
of such statements was left to the discretion of the Chairman of the 
Board, a few of the Council's resolutions subsequently became public 
documents. 
Mr. Sherman also observed that no distribution was made by 
the Board of the memoranda submitted by the Council prior to each 
joint meeting with the Board except to Board members and selected 
staff. Any other distribution was made by the Secretary of the 
Council. 
Mr. Moore then commented that he would be opposed to 
eiiminating the prefatory paragraph from the memorandum, for he 
that it should be in the record. 
Further, he could see no 
°hjection to the adoption of a resolution by the Council, as long 
a s it was clear that the prefatory paragraph of the memorandum was 
merely presented to the Board for the Board's use. The Council had 
adopted resolutions in the past, and he saw no objection to its 
transmitting a resolution to the Board again. 
President Mayer commented that once a resolution was trans-
mitted to the Board, it was something about which the Council should 
n o t talk from that point forward. 

2/20/68 
-11-
On the matter of reporting to the directors of the New York 
Bank, Mr. Moore said he did not believe he would be acting properly 
if he did not convey the view of the Council that the balance of 
Payments problem was very serious and that fiscal restraint should 
be given priority. 
He would not have to talk about the prospect 
°f a crisis, but he would want to report the essence of what the 
Council had recommended to the Board. 
Chairman Martin then remarked that it was helpful to have 
had the discussion today. When he was in the Treasury many years 
ago, he added, the Secretary of the Treasury regularly received 
statements, of the kind Mr. Sherman had mentioned, reflecting 
views of the Council. When he (Chairman Martin) became a member 
the Board, he decided not to pass such communications through 
0 the Treasury. 
The circumstances and relationships at that time 
were of course somewhat different from those that now existed. 
Mr. Moore suggested that the Secretary of the Council could 
Prepare a resolution on which the Council members could agree unani-
mously and that the resolution could be transmitted to the Board for 
e use of the Board as it might see fit, and Chairman Martin replied 
(.L 
the form of a communication from the Council to the Board was 
a tatter for the Council to decide. The Board would assume the 
esPonsibility for the use of such a communication. 
If the Council 
anted to adopt a resolution, the Board could then decide whether 

2/20/68 
- 1 2 -
to use it or not. On the other hand, the Board would also be agree-
able to accepting the sense of the Council. 
In the present circum-
stances, he felt that it would be helpful if he (the Chairman) were 
able to tell the Secretary of the Treasury what the views of the 
Council were regarding the proposed tax increase. 
President Mayer again expressed reluctance about having the 
Council's statement, with the fourth and fifth sentences included, 
transmitted by Council members to the directors of the Reserve 
Banks. There followed a suggestion that the statement might be 
redrafted, along with the submission of a Council resolution to 
Board. However, Mr. Wilkinson observed that he understood the 
Council's statement would become part of the official record as it 
n°w read. President Mayer said he was agreeable to that, provided 
Council members did not refer to the fourth and fifth sentences in 
j . 
Cussions with the directors of their respective Reserve Banks. 
Governor Daane supported the view of President Mayer, and 
latter then urged that the Council consider redrafting the 
^nguage in the form of a resolution to the Board and stop there. 
^wever, Mess rs. Moore and Wilkinson continued to feel that the 
statement should be a part of the record. Mr. Conn then 
Su8gested that the Council adopt a separate resolution, with 
authority to the Board to use it as the Board saw fit. Then, as 
fa r as the Board was concerned, the official record could stand 

2/20/68 
- 1 3 -
with the Council's full statement included. President Mayer 
observed that the minutes of the joint meeting would be kept con-
fidential by the members of the Council. 
Mr. Prochnow noted that there was, however, a certain 
inescapable risk that the memorandum from the Council to the Board 
would become available in some fashion to Reserve Bank directors or 
others. 
President Mayer agreed that such a risk existed, as did 
Governor Daane. The latter suggested that the Council's memorandum, 
a s it stood, become a part of the Board's records only. He felt, 
however, that there would be no objection if Council members related 
to the directors of their Reserve Banks the substance of whatever 
resolution the Council might adopt. 
s 
Governor Maisel then suggested a procedure according to which 
Members of the Council would report orally to the boards of directors 
a s they saw fit, the prefatory paragraph of the Council's memorandum 
Would be eliminated from the final version of that memorandum, which 
might be distributed, but the paragraph would become a part of the 
records of the Board and the Council. 
Chairman Martin noted that the Board had never prescribed 
what members of the Council should report to their respective boards 
°f directors. He had attended a number of directors' meetings at 
which the Council's memorandum to the Board had been presented in 

15 
2/20/68 
-14-
full, while on other occasions there had been no reference to it. 
He did not believe that the Board should try to prescribe what the 
Council members should say to the directors of their Banks; that 
would require establishing an entire new set of guidelines. 
Mr. Sherman commented that even if the Council should 
decide to leave the first paragraph out of its memorandum, there 
would be contained in the minutes of this meeting a reference to 
that paragraph and the discussion pertaining to it. However, the 
mimeographed memorandum could be redone with the paragraph in ques-
tion omitted. The memorandum as originally prepared could then be 
destroyed. 
Governor Daane commented that that would seem prudent, and 
Mr. Moore agreed. 
There developed to be general agreement with such a pro-
cedure. Accordingly, it was understood that the mimeographed copies 
the Council's memorandum that had been distributed would be 
Picked up and that the memorandum would be reissued in a form in 
which the first paragraph was deleted. 
Secretary's Note: There follows the 
text of the resolution passed unani-
mously by the Federal Advisory Council, 
as subsequently transmitted to the 
Chairman of the Board of Governors: 
The Federal Advisory Council of the Federal Reserve 
Sys tem today unanimously passed the following resolution 
and directed that it be forwarded to the Chairman of the 

2/20/68 
-15-
Board of Governors with permission to use it in any way 
that might be helpful to the Board in the attainment of 
the objectives stated in the resolution: 
The Federal Advisory Council wishes to state, with 
all the emphasis it can summon, the critical and urgent 
need to reduce government expenditures abroad and at home 
to protect our gold supply and to maintain a domestic 
price level that will sustain the competitiveness of our 
exports. Concurrently, we also again strongly urge the 
proposed tax increase to help accomplish these objectives. 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general 
economic outlook for the first half, and 
for the second half, of 1968? The outlook 
for wage and price developments? 
The Council anticipates a continued rise in the level 
of business in the first half of 1968. There is little per-
suasive evidence yet that the consumer has become less cau-
tious. Capital spending by businessmen is rising moderately. 
Outlays for inventories appear to be increasing in line with 
sales, except for the stockpiling of steel, automobiles, and 
aluminum. 
The outlook for the second half of 1968 is much less 
certain. To the extent that inventories accumulated in the 
first half of the year are used up, production may moderate. 
On the other hand, recent developments in Vietnam have caused 
some observers to question the ability of government to limit 
the rise in defense spending to current budget estimates. 
In 
addition, it is possible that at some point during the year 
the consumer spending-savings rate may return to a more normal 
pattern, and result in expanding retail sales. 
The relatively strong demand for labor as evidenced 
by the current unemployment rate, together with the trend 
in wage negotiations, suggests a continued rise in wages 
in excess of productivity. 
This in turn will be reflected 
in prices although it is possible that competitive pres-
sures will limit price rises to something less than the 
increase in wage and other costs, thereby narrowing profit 
margins. 

2 / 2 0 / 6 8 
- 1 6 -
Governor Daane referred to the Council's comment that there 
was as yet little persuasive evidence that the consumer had become 
less cautious. 
He asked whether the Council viewed a continuance 
of the present level of consumer saving as likely and what appeared 
to be the reasons for it. 
President Mayer replied that there were a lot of uncertain-
ties. 
people were worried, and for that reason cautious. 
Mr. Moore noted an increase in purchases of automobiles on 
credit in January. 
He saw some straws in the wind suggesting the 
Prospect of increased consumer spending. 
The evidence was not yet 
Persuasive, but this might develop before the year was out. 
Governor Maisel asked for the Council's views about prospec-
tive business spending for plant, equipment, and inventories. 
A 
t 
e ar of inflation should tend to speed up such spending, offsetting 
tlle general atmosphere of caution. 
Mr. Moore remarked that plant and equipment improvement was 
4.L 
e only way businesses could keep up with the increase in labor 
c°sts. 
Obsolescence in the steel industry was a serious matter; in 
^tuations of that kind it was necessary to move ahead regardless 
o f other factors. 
President Mayer observed that many companies had programs 
Process, the pay-off on which would not come until they were 
ComPleted. 

2/20/68 
- 1 7 -
Governor Mitchell asked if it was not a matter of concern 
to companies if they were adding to capacity faster than the real 
• -
economy was growing. 
President Mayer said that this was a matter of concern in 
the aluminum industry. However, with competitors increasing plant 
tacil ities, individual companies were not willing to forego their 
share of the total market in the future. 
Mr. Still commented that it was necessary to distinguish 
between efficient and less efficient plant facilities, to which Mr. 
Moore added that in the steel industry high-cost facilities were 
being used on which the companies were actually losing money. 
Governor Mitchell noted that the over-all figures indicated 
Plant was being utilized only to the extent of around 83-85 per 
c ent of capacity, and Mr. Moore replied that the average age of 
faciliti 
es should be taken into consideration. 
It was important 
t o distinguish between new plant and plant 20 years old. President 
Mayer added, however, that when capacity was being utilized at a 
rate of only about 85 per cent companies usually were not making as 
m u c h money as when they were operating at higher levels, despite 
t h e fact that the higher levels brought less efficient facilities 
into use. 
Governor Brimmer asked for the Council's views on what had 
keen developing in terms of plans for new capital expenditures since 

2/20/68 
-18-
last fall. 
It was his impression that in October and November many 
companies made decisions on the rate at which they would invest 
during the coming year, and he wondered whether those plans were 
being revised. 
Mr. Moore said he knew of none that had been revised down-
ward. At every board meeting that he attended he saw new programs 
being added. 
Mr. Craft said he had seen no evidence of curtailment of 
Plans in the areas with which he was familiar. 
. vi j ' i 
President Mayer commented that he thought top management 
W as tending to be somewhat more critical of proposed programs and 
ask more questions. 
They were not quite so willing to approve 
some projects that would have been approved in a different atmo-
sphere. Despite this tendency, however, companies were still 
spending a lot of money, for example in the aluminum industry. 
Mr. Wilkinson said two companies with which he was familiar 
W e r e now taking a second look at modernization of plant of their 
f o 
reign subsidiaries until financing could be assured, and that was 
more difficult because of the Commerce Department's program 
relating to foreign investments. 
President Mayer noted that in some cases foreign operations 
had nr 
proved not to be as profitable as the companies thought when 
t h e y entered the field. 

6 9 8 
2/20/68 
-19-
Governor Mitchell inquired whether Council members sensed 
any change in the psychology of businesses as compared with the 
1961-65 period, in terms of domestic operations, and President 
Mayer replied that since 1966 programs were being looked at more 
skeptically. Mr. Moore commented that nevertheless programs were 
still larger than before, and President Mayer cited the factor of 
technology. Mr. Stewart noted that today few large companies were 
in only one line of business. 
Governor Maisel said he assumed from the comments that there 
had not been an acceleration of expectations, and there were no indi-
cations to the contrary. 
Governor Brimmer asked the Council to confirm his understand-
ing 
that no substantial cancelations of programs had been noticed, 
and Council members indicated that they had not noticed such can-
celations. 
Mr. Simmen observed that the foregoing comments were not 
necessarily pertinent when it came to small businessmen, who 
appeared to be very cautious. A lot of the commitments they had 
°btained from banks had not been utilized. 
Chairman Martin asked if the Council members felt there had 
b e e n some disenchantment in terms of foreign investments, and the 
rePlies were in the affirmative. Mr. Moore said that earnings 
i 

2/20/68 
-20-
records in Europe had generally been disappointing. 
Even if the 
present balance of payments program were not in effect, he felt 
that the volume of investments would have declined. President Mayer 
agreed, adding that some companies had gone abroad without suffi-
cient knowledge and the results had not met their expectations. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the Council expected a 
substantial narrowing of corporate profit margins, and President 
Mayer replied that much depended on the line of business. 
Some 
companies were able to pass along added costs more easily than 
others. Mr. Moore noted that economists of his bank were estimat-
ing 
that gross earnings before taxes would be up 10 per cent this 
year, and President Mayer said that his bank's economists were 
making the same kind of estimates. 
/ s 
B. What impressions do Council members have 
from their customer contacts with respect 
to prospective trends in business inven-
tories? 
As noted above, outlays for inventories appear to 
be increasing in line with sales, except for the stock-
piling of steel, automobiles, and aluminum. 
Several 
members reported that steel output is considerably in 
excess of sales to customers and that the steel com-
panies are stockpiling items. 
President Mayer said he did not think it was important 
whether the steel companies were stockpiling, or someone else. 
The 
*aventories were piling up in any event. 
It should be borne in mind 

2/20/68 
-21-
that the contract expiration date this year was two months later 
than three years ago, a point that some people apparently had over-
»• • 
looked, including the railroads. 
Mr. Moore said that practically all of the large companies 
had options, not yet exercised, on Japanese and European steel. 
President Mayer noted that the exercising of those options might 
entail other obligations, and Mr. Moore added that when this 
happened before the foreign suppliers stayed in the picture. 
It 
was of concern to the steel people today that if foreign steel was 
used the foreign suppliers would keep their sha re of the market. 
C. What is the outlook for the availability 
of mortgage funds and for residential 
construction in the Council members' 
respective regions? 
The outlook for the availability of mortgage funds 
and residential construction varies somewhat from district 
to district. 
In general, however, the current difficulty 
continues to be the attractiveness of yields on alternative 
investments, plus the usury laws in some areas, rather than 
the supply of savings for investment. 
The resultant reluc-
tance of some financial institutions to make mortgage com-
mitments, together with the threat of disintermediation if 
interest rates rise, tempers the outlook for mortgage funds 
and residential construction. 
President Mayer commented that the importance of State usury 
l a w s should not be underestimated. 
They were not compatible with 
Present pattern of interest rates, and some States were suffer-
i n8 because of them. 

2/20/68 
- 2 2 -
Governor Brimmer asked about the probable outcome of efforts 
being made to raise the rate ceilings in some States, and Mr. 
Wilkinson said that the effort in West Virginia appeared to have 
failed. 
in Virginia there was probably going to be an increase to 
8 per cent, but he did not know about the current status of the 
effort being made in Maryland. Mr. Still 
said that in Pennsylvania 
the outlook was not favorable. 
In his area, he added, even the 
traditional mortgage lenders were not making mortgage loans today. 
Instead, they were placing funds in high-grade corporate bonds. 
Governor Mitchell noted that the Council's statement did not 
Su8gest that the housing industry was going to be affected signifi-
cantly by the present trend of developments, and Mr. Nason said that 
rouch depended 
on the region. There were no bothersome usury laws 
in the Ninth District and Eastern money was coming in. Mr. Craft 
said that a similar situation prevailed in the Sixth District, with 
Plenty of mortgage loans being made and people apparently getting 
Used to paying higher rates. Mr. Conn reported that in the Tenth 
district there was an abundance of mortgage money. 
Some savings 
and loan associations in Oklahoma City were buying mortgages because 
ttley had insufficient outlet for their funds. 
In that area the 
f r 
Ustrations and fears engendered by lack of confidence apparently 
W ere contributing to lagging housing statistics; the problem was 
n°t lack of money or usury laws. Mr. Fox said those factors were 

2/20/68 
-23-
n°t present in the Eighth District either. However, he did not 
agree that people were getting used to paying higher rates, and he 
thought that was one reason for the excess of available funds. 
2. Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the 
probable strength of business loan demands 
in the late winter and spring? 
Although business loan demands have been less than 
anticipated, the Council believes there will be a moderate 
strengthening of business loan demands above seasonal in 
the late winter and spring. This will reflect the antici-
pated build-up of inventories, particularly of steel, the 
rise in the price level, and the probability of an accel-
eration of corporate tax payments as recommended by the 
Administration. 
This is also supported by the substan-
tial increase in bank loan commitments. 
Mr. Craft noted that the Council's comments inferred that 
some banks were holding back in order to be prepared to take care 
°f their loan commitments. 
Chairman Martin commented that he gathered, nevertheless, 
that loan demand was generally lower than expected, and Mr. Still 
agreed. Mr. Moore said he continued to feel that the loan demand 
would come. Some of the outstanding commitments reflected a desire 
f°r an insurance policy, but a lot of them would be used. 
Governor Daane asked whether past experience did not indi-
Cate that a fairly high percentage of the commitments might remain 
unused, and there was agreement that that could be the case. Mr. 
Moore said, however, that he thought the net result would be a 

2/20/68 
-24-
moderate increase in business loan demand. 
He and Mr. Larkin added 
that many companies did not like the price that had to be paid in 
connection with bond issues. They hoped that the bond market would 
improve, and they were to some extent holding out in hope of such 
an improvement. Mr. Craft agreed, saying that many companies would 
Prefer to have commitments good for two years than to sell capital 
issues now. They hoped that in the meantime the bond market would 
improve. 
Governor Brimmer said he had heard reports that commitments 
were being requested in a form that would make them much more firm 
than in the past, with fees being paid to a greater extent. He had 
received the impression that corporate lawyers were advising their 
clients to pin down the commitments. 
He asked to what extent it 
\ 
appeared that some of the commitments could be traced to efforts of 
companies that had sold commercial paper to back up that paper with 
hank commitments. 
He also asked how banks were preparing themselves 
to meet their commitments. 
President Mayer said it was quite clear that more companies 
Were now paying fees to make the commitments legally binding. 
They 
remembered 1966. He had not heard companies ascribe what they were 
doing to the fact that they were issuing commercial paper, although 
he could see that the companies would like an umbrella. 

2/20/68 
- 2 5 -
Mr. Fox said his experience had been a little different. 
Within the past year numerous companies had come in for commitments 
just to cover commercial paper. 
Mr. Moore expressed the view that without question many com-
panies felt that limitations were likely to be placed on bank lend-
l ng, as in foreign countries. Those seeking commitments were trying 
t o get under the wire. Other Council members indicated that they 
agreed. 
Turning to Governor Brimmer's final question, President 
Mayer said that the banks had attempted to improve their liquidity. 
Most banks accepted the fact that, with about $20 billion of nego-
tiable CD's outstanding, the rules of the game were now quite dif-
ferent. The money represented by such CD's did not have the same 
N 
stability as the deposits held by banks in the past. 
Mr. Moore said that many banks, including his own, had 
endeavored to double their liquidity. 
B. Do Council members observe or expect any 
significant acceleration in demands for 
consumer credit? Has any change in con-
sumer credit terms been developing? 
The members of the Council have not observed any 
significant acceleration in the demands for consumer 
credit. 
If the improvement in automobile and other 
retail sales that developed recently persists, consumer 
credit demands obviously will accelerate, but this is 
not yet apparent. No significant change in consumer 
credit terms appears to be developing. 
There was no discussion with respect to this topic. 

713 
2/20/68 
-26-
C. How would the Council appraise recent and 
prospective changes in market demands for 
large-denomination CD's of various maturi-
ties? For consumer-type CD's and savings 
deposits? 
The recent decline in large-denomination CD's in 
New York and Chicago probably reflects a number of devel-
opments including (1) a less-than-anticipated demand for 
loans, (2) less aggressive bidding for funds by the money-
center banks in view of the easing of rates for Euro-
dollars, and (3) the use of corporate cash to finance 
recent inventory growth. Even a moderate increase in 
loan demand, or a tightening in credit policy, is likely 
to push rates to the present Regulation Q ceilings. The 
Council again suggests that the Board consider raising 
the present ceiling on large-denomination CD's. 
Consumer-type CD's continue to increase, but at a 
somewhat slower rate than a year ago. The trend in pass-
book savings varies from district to district. 
President Mayer reported that there was no clear pattern 
with respect to consumer-type CD's, and Mr. Stewart said that out-
!ying banks were still virtually at the ceiling in terms of large-
denomination CD's. 
Mr. Wilkinson asked if there was any way in which statis-
tics could be furnished breaking down the several categories of 
time and savings deposits. President Mayer added that if savings 
certificates could be separated from other time deposits, that 
w°uld be a very significant figure. At present, other time 
deposits was an all-inclusive category, meaningless to bankers. 
Governor Robertson said that efforts were being made in 
that direction in connection with the call report. 

2/20/68 
-27-
Governor Mitchell commented that an ownership breakdown 
would be helpful and, after some discussion of that point, Presi-
dent Mayer said that the furnishing of such figures should not be 
too great a burden for the large banks. Each bank would like to 
know what its competitors were doing and whether its own operations 
were typical. There might be a problem of burdening the smaller 
banks, but perhaps an adequate sample could be constructed from the 
weekly reporting member banks. 
D. The Board would welcome any comments 
by Council members on the proposed 
amendments to Regulation D, concern-
ing technical changes in the computa-
tion of reserve requirements by member 
banks, that were published on January 29, 
1968. 
In general, the Council members approve of the pro-
posed amendments to Regulation D concerning technical changes 
in the computation of reserve requirements by member banks. 
Several members reported that they had communicated this 
view to the Board of Governors. 
. 
President Mayer said that none of the Council members 
°PP0sed the lagged reserve proposal. The members considered it a 
forward step. Some Council members had forwarded their comments 
to the Board already, and others expected to do so shortly. 
Chairman Martin noted that some criticism had been 
expressed, particularly by country banks, one reason being that 
they preferred not to shift to a weekly computation period. 

2/20/68 
-28-
3. Balance of payments. 
A. How would the Council assess the probable 
effectiveness of key elements of the new 
balance of payments program, including 
those relating to direct investment, 
lending by financial institutions, and 
travel abroad? 
Recognizing that the recent sharp deterioration in 
our balance of payments demanded prompt action, the Council 
is hopeful that the Administration's program relating to 
direct investment, lending by financial institutions, and 
travel abroad will help narrow the deficit. However, there 
is wide agreement that the longer such a program is in force, 
the less effective it is likely to become. Moreover, it 
clearly does not come to grips with the basic problem. At 
best, it provides time to take the required action. 
National 
policies giving unmistakable evidence of fiscal restraint and 
a determination to reduce inflationary pressures would be the 
most effective technique to insure continued confidence in 
the U.S. dollar. 
B. In the judgment of the Council, will the 
new guidelines for restraint of foreign 
credits significantly affect the avail-
ability of financing for U.S. exports? 
In the Council's judgment the new guidelines for 
restraint of foreign credit are likely to reduce the avail-
ability of financing for U.S. exports. 
It is not possible 
at this time to know how significantly export financing 
will be affected. 
C. To what extent, if any, would the Council 
expect U.S. banks to increase lending 
activity at their foreign branches to 
offset their reduced ability to make 
loans subject to the guideline ceiling? 
What effects would such a development, 
and other factors, be likely to have on 
the volume of Euro-dollars "loaned" by 
the branches to their home offices over 
the next few months? 

2/20/68 
-29-
The Council expects U.S. banks to increase substan-
tially their lending activity at foreign branches as they 
seek to meet the needs of their customers. 
In some in-
stances this will reflect the commercial banks' inability 
to expand loans to foreigners because of the guideline 
ceilings and in other instances will result from the 
foreign investment limitations on U.S. firms. 
If these 
lending activities expand substantially, it may be that 
the volume of Euro-dollars "loaned" by the branches to 
their home offices will be limited. However, if funds 
in the United States become sufficiently tight, lending 
activities at foreign branches may be curtailed in order 
to "lend" additional Euro-dollars to their home offices. 
In recent weeks, U.S. banks have tended to step-up their 
"borrowing" from foreign branches because of the relative 
attractiveness of the rates on these funds. 
Governor Daane asked for further comments by the Council 
with respect to export financing, and President Mayer replied that 
the Council found it difficult, at the moment, to appraise what 
might happen. Mr. Moore said he did not see how lending, either 
direct or indirect, could be cut back without affecting exports in 
°ne way or another. However, he could not cite any specific fig-
ures. President Mayer noted that the impact of the new guidelines 
foreign credit restraint would depend to a large extent on 
• , 
_ t , 
where the loans were, and Mr. Moore remarked that his bank's for-
eign lending would necessarily have to be reduced considerably 
because so many of its loans were to European borrowers. 
Governor Robertson commented that the Board was concerned 
that adequate export financing be available. 
If problems were seen 
i n that area, the Council members should let the Board know of them. 

2/20/68 
-30-
If members became aware of any situations where exports were being 
impeded, their advising the Board would be a real service. 
Reference was made to Export-Import Bank financing, and 
Governor Robertson commented that the situation was being watched 
closely. 
Mr. Moore noted the increasingly close relationship between 
the Eurodollar market and the U.S. market. He had the feeling that 
central banks in Europe were monitoring the Eurodollar market so 
that it did not get out of line. There would be a marked squeeze 
if Eurodollar rates were allowed to rise materially above CD rates 
in New York. 
Chairman Martin said that at the moment the central banks 
Were cooperating wholeheartedly. 
They were enthusiastic that some-
thing was being done to improve the U.S. balance of payments, and 
they 
were doing everything possible to assure that the program would 
Work, it was highly important that those in the United States also 
'lC 
? .\ " 
, , 
did everything possible to make the program work. 
i 
I 
' 
• • 
.... 
' 
Chairman Martin added that it was vital to make the program 
A- :»• 
successful in its early stages. Otherwise, as time passed, the 
effects would tend to erode. All were aware of the basic steps 
that were needed; if those steps were not taken, the present pro-
8ram could not serve long as a substitute. But he was discouraged 
' f 
• • 
• . 
.1 
. 
. 
about the number of people who were expressing a non-cooperative 

2/20/68 
-31-
attitude, on the ground that they expected the program to break 
down. 
It behooved the banking community to do everything possible 
to deal with this attitude of defeatism, which was misplaced and 
inappropriate. 
President Mayer said that the Council agreed. 
4. What are the Council's views on monetary and 
credit policy under current circumstances, 
(a) assuming reasonably prompt passage of an 
income tax surcharge? 
(b) assuming no income 
tax surcharge will be passed? 
Assuming reasonably prompt passage of an income 
tax surcharge, the Council would favor a continuation 
of the somewhat less easy monetary and credit policy 
that has prevailed in recent weeks. 
If no fiscal pol-
icy restraint is forthcoming and inflationary pres-
sures intensify, additional credit and monetary 
restraint will be necessary. However, sufficient 
reserves should be provided to underwrite Treasury 
borrowings and to avoid creating a 1966-type credit 
crunch. 
President Mayer remarked that the Council's statement left 
something unsaid. There was a general skepticism that monetary 
Policy alone could handle a problem of the present dimensions. He 
asked whether any Council members disagreed with that comment, and 
n°ne so indicated. 
Governor Brimmer noted the Council's comment that a repeti-
tion of the 1966 situation should be avoided. As he understood it, 
the Council appeared to be saying that if there had to be a trade-
prices should be allowed to rise a little more. 

2/20/68 
-32-
President Mayer said he believed the Council would make 
such a choice, but Mr. Moore observed that he would prefer a credit 
crunch to a large price increase if he had to choose between them. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the use of the word "crunch" 
implied a repetition of all of the things that happened in 1966. The 
difficulty then was compounded by the firmness on the part of the 
Federal Reserve at a time when the banking system did not expect 
the System to become so firm. There could be a lot of tightness 
without the same results if the banking system knew what was coming. 
Mr. Moore agreed that the banking system was now better pre-
pared, more liquid. There could be tighter money with a less adverse 
effect. Mr. Nason said that much depended on what was meant by 
tighter money," and Mr. Moore replied that he was referring to a 
tighter monetary policy, not a crunch. 
Governor Daane commented that he understood the Council to 
he saying that it was skeptical that monetary policy and fiscal 
Policy were substitutable; or, in other words, that the use of 
monetary policy could substitute for fiscal restraint at this 
Juncture. 
Governor Brimmer observed that nevertheless there was some 
configuration of monetary restraint that would produce the same 
restraint on spending as fiscal policy. 
If a certain amount of 
e x c e s s demand had to be removed from the economy, the necessary 

2/20/68 
-33-
result could be achieved through a combination of monetary and 
fiscal policy, or by fiscal policy, or by monetary policy alone. 
However, the consequences would be different. 
President Mayer noted that there were practical limitations 
to what could be done. Were it not for those limitations, a lot 
could be done through monetary policy, but the impact would not be 
evenly distributed throughout the economy. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that although the rate of growth of 
bank credit could easily be cut down, it was necessary to go beyond 
that and try to see the impact, given the limitations that Presi-
dent Mayer had mentioned. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the housing industry prob-
ably would have to bear the brunt of monetary restraint. 
He asked, 
s 
however, whether the banking system might not be disposed to pass 
around the impact to a certain extent. That was the essence of the 
Board's September 1, 1966, letter. 
In 1966 a lot of marginal 
lenders were simply shoved out of the loan window and, in addition, 
there was a severe constraint on selected segments of the economy. 
The savings and loan people were expressing the view that this was 
n°t going to happen to them again. They felt that they were now 
better prepared. 
But if the aggregate rate of credit growth was 
Curtailed, that was still the most vulnerable spot. 

713 
2/20/68 
-34-
Governor Robertson commented that the fundamental question 
to be decided, assuming no fiscal restraint was forthcoming, was 
what amount of inflation should be tolerated. No one should have 
the impression that the Federal Reserve could not deal with the 
Problem if necessary, for it could. 
Mr. Moore said he would favor moving through monetary policy 
alone, if necessary, and taking the consequences, but Mr. Nason 
expressed doubt whether that would be politically feasible, in view 
°f the risk of deflation. President Mayer agreed that that was the 
real question. 
Mr. Still suggested that the word "crunch" was unfortunate, 
for it implied a crisis. An equivalent degree of restraint could 
he obtained gradually by tightening monetary policy over a period 
s 
time. 
if that were done, he felt it would be feasible. 
Mr. Wilkinson agreed with Mr. Still that the element of 
gradualriess was the key to the question. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the Council had again sug-
gested that the Board consider raising the ceiling on large-
denomination CD's. That was an important issue. He raised the 
question whether the Council would see any value in raising the 
ceiling for CD's with maturity of a year or more. 
Mr. Moore replied that that might be of some help, and Mr. 
Wilkinson agreed that such a step could help somewhat because there 

2/20/68 
-35-
were many kinds of money in the market. Mr. Moore suggested, how-
ever, that it would be better if the ceiling could be raised on 
CD's with a maturity of six months or more. President Mayer 
observed that there was little corporate money in the longer-term 
CD market; he did not think that even raising the ceiling for 
maturities of six months or more would really answer the problem. 
Governor Mitchell then commented that in his judgment the 
existence of the ceilings constituted a major restraint on the 
banking system. 
They tended to make the banks cautious, and the 
banks had to live with them. Any change probably would be inter-
preted by the banking system as a relaxation of policy. 
Chairman Martin inquired as to the minimum size that the 
Council had in mind in referring to large-denomination CD's, and 
President Mayer recalled that at a previous meeting he had men-
tioned a minimum of $1 million. 
Having now made a study, it did 
n°t appear to him that the minimum of $1 million made as much sense 
a s he had thought, and he would now suggest a minimum of $100,000. 
Governor Brimmer reverted to the discussion of commitments 
and asked whether banks were in fact making commitments on the 
a8sumption that the Federal Reserve would not really have to tighten 
monetary policy substantially. 
President Mayer responded that he thought many banks had 
built into their forecasting provisions to take care of quite a 

2/20/68 
-36-
substantial CD runoff and also to take care of calls that might be 
expected against their commitments if conditions were as bad as at 
the peak of the crunch in 1966. 
In other words, the banks were 
makirig allowance for substantially greater calls on commitments 
than might normally have been anticipated in the past. 
Mr. Larkin said that banks with which he was familiar were 
much better prepared liquiditywise and that they had benefited from 
the 1966 experience. 
However, for reasons of competition, they 
were still making the commitments requested by their good customers. 
It was of some concern to him that the banks might really be delud-
ing themselves. 
If the Federal Reserve decided that it must slow 
things down, there would have to be a squeeze somewhere along the 
line. When that happened, the banks' customers would all try to 
take their money down. He was not sure that the whole process 
could be carried through smoothly, and without considerable strain 
a t some point. 
Mr. Still commented that history did not indicate that a 
Federal Reserve policy of this type could become effective immedi-
ately. 
However, it could become effective over a period of six 
m°nths or so. Once the ultimate point of restraint was reached, 
bankers would begin to pull in their horns and stop making one-shot 
deals. 
in six or eight months the banking system would have adjusted 

2/20/68 
- 3 7 -
Chairman Martin inquired how firmly the Council held the 
view that the second six months of this year would be substantially 
weaker than the first six months, and Mr. Nason said that his 
thinking on that score was not firm. Mr. Moore commented that his 
bank's economists were pushing up their estimates for the second 
half, and President Mayer said he thought the Council members' 
views were now less certain than they had been earlier. 
With further reference to commitments, Governor Robertson 
inquired whether bankers were making them in such volume as to mean 
that the banks would require more negotiable CD money. 
In other 
words, did the banks fear primarily a loss of CD's, or was there 
a feeling that the banks would need more? 
Mr. Stewart replied that he thought the banks would need 
more if commitments were taken down in quantity, and Mr. Wilkinson 
agreed that much would depend on how rapidly the commitments were 
taken down. 
Governor Robertson then commented that he assumed the banks 
Would be in a bind if interest rates were to go up much further and 
CD money left the banks in considerable volume. 
He also assumed 
that the suggestion that the ceiling be raised on large-denomination 
CD' c 
u s was intended to provide assurance that the banks would not lose 
CD * 
u s in quantity. 

2/20/68 
-38-
Mr. Moore replied that that would help, and Mr. Nason said 
he thought that kind of a situation would not be too bad. 
Mr. 
Moore observed that those holding the CD's were not necessarily 
going to spend the money; they would be likely to put it back in 
CD's if a competitive rate was available. 
President Mayer commented that the Council would welcome 
any suggestions on ways in which the meetings of the Council could 
he made more worth while from the Board's standpoint. 
Governor Robertson said he would suggest that the Council 
not feel bound by the questions suggested for consideration by the 
Board and, instead, that the Council feel free to express itself on 
any matters that it considered important. 
President Mayer said the Council did not feel bound in that 
respect. 
For example, the members might have some questions as a 
result of their meeting with the Board's staff on the day preceding 
joint meeting that they would like to discuss further with the 
Board. 
In view of a conflict between the dates on which the Council 
Would ordinarily hold its next meeting and the dates of the ABA 

•y. 
2/20/68 
-39-
•X'^fi- 
• 
~ 
Monetary Conference to be held in Puerto Rico, it was agreed that 
the next meeting of the Council would be held on June 3-4, 1968. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
. < <i 
V - > 
