MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 15, 1968 

f o f— 
o j L b o 
< Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 15, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 4:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
£^££oimt__rate. At their meeting today the directors of the 
federal T? 
reserve Bank of Minneapolis had established, subject to the 
°val of the Board of Governors, a rate of 5-1/4 per cent (rather 
than 
existing 5-1/2 per cent) on discounts and advances to member 
banks 
a 
sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. 
President Galusha had subsequently called Chairman Martin and 
told him 
m that, although the rate submitted reflected the preference of 
the 
c org following a long discussion, he and Chairman Swan would 
be wiix^ 
n8 to poll the directors again if the Board of Governors concluded 

o A 
p 
OJLO'O 
8/15/68 
-2-
that it was important to reduce the discount rate to 5 per cent, 
Mr, Galusha felt that that could be done without creating an impression 
that the Board of Governors was determining the rate. 
Chairman Martin had also received a telephone call from 
Governor Daane, who had attended the Minneapolis directors' meeting. 
Governor Daane told the Chairman that he had endeavored to present the 
case for a 1/2 percentage point cut effectively, but he added that 
after listening to the discussion he found himself persuaded that a 
1/4 point reduction, which he would interpret as giving a signal to 
the market without going overboard, represented the preferable action 
a t this time. 
Chairman Martin noted that the directors of the Philadelphia 
Bank had also met today and turned to Governor Maisel, who had attended 
the Philadelphia meeting, for a report. 
Governor Maisel said the directors who were present considered 
inflation still to be the major problem. Some indicated that they would 
willing to countenance a certain degree of economic downturn in order 
to bring inflation under control, while others noted that there was as 
^et no clear evidence of a change in economic conditions and said they 
w°uld prefer to await firm evidence. Since the President of the Bank 
exPressed the view that the technical problem was not presently suffi-
ciently great to require a reduction of the discount rate, the directors 
Went along with his recommendation and voted for no change in the rate. 

8/15/68 
-3-
The Board then received a brief report on developments in the 
money market today, from which it appeared that the market remained 
generally tight. Dealer inventories of Government securities con-
tinued to be heavy, and the Trading Desk had purchased $300 million 
°f bills outright while acquiring another $300 million under repur-
r O 
1 "I.,'...'-' 1 '! 
chase agreement. 
During the discussion of market conditions that followed, 
» 
i 
_ 
Chairman Martin was called from the room. When he returned he 
Sported that he had received a telephone call from Mr. Treiber, 
First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Mr. 
wUa i y ..• 
Treiber told him that the New York directors had had a lengthy dis-
cs j 
u88ion of the discount rate and that he had tried to present the 
a 8 e o n b o t h sides fairly. The directors were concerned that infla-
fci 
n W a s still the paramount problem in the country and they were 
£ 
a r ul, f r o m both the international point of view and the domestic 
« 
<»• • 
n t ° f v i e w> about giving any signal that might indicate that money 
^ • going to be eased. Consequently, they voted for no change in the 
discount rate 
i-ciue. 
' ? - ij. ? 
" 
(Note: The Board also had before it two other no-change wires. 
6 h a d b e e n received from the Boston Bank on Monday and the other, 
^ eived today, reflected a technical rate renewal by the executive 
° m m i t t e e o f the San Francisco Board of Directors.) 

3168 
8/15/68 
-4-
The members of the Board then expressed their tentative 
"L.. 
. 
views, from which it developed that all of the members were prepared 
to vote in favor of a discount rate reduction. However, preferences 
a s to the extent of the reduction differed. 
Some members felt that a strong case could be made for moving 
the rate down 1/2 point to 5 per cent. Those members, included among 
' " 
- " ; • • ix' 
whom were Chairman Martin, Governor Maisel, and Governor Brimmer, 
agreed that a move of more than 1/4 point at this time would not fit 
into the description of a technical adjustment. However, they 
believed it would be desirable if an action could be taken now that 
would lay the discount rate issue to rest for some period of time, 
IV 
Perhaps until the end of the year. According to their assessment of 
available evidence with respect to prospective market developments 
underlying economic conditions, it appeared unlikely that a dis-
... 
count rate of 5-1/4 per cent would prove viable for more than a month 
Q r 
so> and in this judgment they were supported by Messrs. Holland 
Partee of the staff. Therefore, they foresaw a renewal of specu-
ation in the market and in the press with regard to the discount 
a t e, with the result that the Federal Reserve might find itself 
under 
pressure to act on the rate again at a time when the circum-
s were less than propitious, particularly with a national 
P° i t i c a l campaign impending. 
Governor Robertson, while not committing himself to a final 
deci«3-i 
0n» presented the case that could be made for going along with 

8/15/68 
-5-
the Minneapolis action. He pointed out, first, that there was a 
considerable body of opinion that no change should be made in the 
discount rate, and he was uncertain himself. Although comments were 
being heard about the economy going downhill, the situation was not 
clear, and inflationary pressures continued to exist. In that kind 
°f climate a good case could be made for going no further than to 
make a technical adjustment of the discount rate to put it in better 
alignment with money market conditions and try to prevent a backup 
( r'V' 
of market rates. Further, there were certainly more within the 
System who would prefer a 1/4 point cut than a 1/2 point reduction. 
Finally, while he was not saying that he would vote against a 1/2 
P°int cut, there was no such proposal presently before the Board for 
{ A* 
consideration. 
It would evidently be necessary to go back to the 
Minneapolis directors, and he felt it would not be desirable, in the 
event of a future inquiry, for the record to disclose that the Board 
taken the initiative in such manner. Accordingly, all things 
considered, it might be wiser to take the 1/4 point step now, even 
"ough it might become necessary to act again later, hopefully not 
111 the midst of a political period. 
Chairman Martin observed that Governor Robertson had pre-
sented a forceful analysis from a Systemwide point of view. He went 
° n t o comment that on a matter of this kind no one could be certain 
the right answer. The announcement of a reduction in the discount 

3170 
8/15/68 
-6-
rate would be subject to many interpretations and the eventual 
effects of such a move, domestically and internationally, were not 
clear. Nevertheless, in his judgment it would be better to dispose 
°f the matter and risk the consequences. While there was a likeli-
hood, if the decision was to move now by only 1/4 
point, that it would 
he necessary to move again, Governor Robertson had outlined the case 
for such action effectively. 
The Chairman also noted that the two absent members of the 
Board apparently would prefer a 1/4 point cut to a 1/2 point reduction. 
Governor Mitchell had so expressed himself yesterday, and Governor 
'l- ^Vt'J ' V 
** ) ' . • \ . 
Daane had so indicated in his telephone conversation today. 
Governor Sherrill stated that he also was attracted to a 1/4 
> 
Point reduction at this time. The announcement of a discount rate 
change would receive widespread attention, both at home and interna-
tionally, and in spite of whatever explanations were made he believed 
a reduction of the rate to 5 per cent at this stage would be inter-
S y 
.-„.•• 
. 
... 
... 
Preted to mean that the Federal Reserve was moving to a significantly 
easier monetary policy. Inflation, he noted, was apparently not 
slowing down as fast as had been anticipated earlier, and it probably 
continue to present a problem for a rather long time, while he 
recognized the need to take projections into account in making policy 
decisions, he felt that a discount rate reduction of 1/2 point would 
ePresent moving ahead of the projections. 

317 
8/15/68 
-7-
Although a final decision on the rate had not yet been 
reached, the discussion now moved forward to the question of the 
timing of an announcement. The Manager of the System Open Market 
Account was understood to have some reservations with regard to 
announcing a rate change this evening, effective tomorrow, because 
the books were just closing today on the current Treasury financing. 
In the circumstances, consideration was given to the possibility of 
Voting today but 
announcing the rate change tomorrow, effective next 
Monday. Although for various reasons, such as the lateness of the 
hour, there was initially some sentiment in favor of such a procedure, 
several reasons were advanced against departing from the traditional 
Pattern of announcing discount rate changes on the same day that the 
vote was taken. One complicating factor mentioned was that the 
Secretary of the Treasury had scheduled a press conference for 
tomorrow afternoon, during the course of which questions seemed likely 
to be raised with regard to adjustment of monetary policy in light of 
the enactment of fiscal restraint measures in late June. 
After further debate of options that appeared to be avail-
able, Chairman Martin, who was leaving on vacation after this meeting, 
Squired whether it would be possible to obtain a unanimous vote on 
aPproval of the Minneapolis action, effective tomorrow, with a press 
ft V" ><$; 
release to be issued immediately. No member of the Board indicated 
c he felt strongly enough on the matter to record a dissenting vote. 

8/15/68 
-8-
Accordingly, the Board approved unanimously, effective 
August 16, 1968, the action taken by the Board of Directors of the 
Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis establishing a rate of 5-1/4 per 
cent on discounts and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 
13a of the Federal Reserve Act, a rate of 5-3/4 per cent on advances 
to member banks under section 10(b) of the Federal Reserve Act, and 
a rate of 6-1/4 per cent on advances to individuals, partnerships, 
and corporations other than member banks under the last paragraph 
°f section 13 of the Act. 
...- I . 
i 
• 
j 
• 
Consideration then was given to two drafts of a press 
.statement, one prepared by Governor Maisel and the other prepared 
by the staff. Both had been drafted for use in the event that the 
. .. - v 
W' •• 
> , 
• 
- - 
' 
.. <'•: - 
'J.-.: 
^discount rate was reduced to 5 per cent, so appropriate revisions 
in the language were decided upon. The issuance of a press release 
in the form attached as Item No. 1 was then authorized. 
The Secretary was authorized to advise any other Federal 
Reserve Bank whose directors established rates similar to those 
established by the Minneapolis Bank of the Board's approval of 
,;such rates. 
(Note: Acting pursuant to this authorization, the Secretary 
subsequently advised the remaining Federal Reserve Banks of the 

OX. / J 
8/15/68 
-9-
Board's approval of rates of 5-1/4 per cent on discounts and 
advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a and 5-3/4 per 
cent on advances to member banks under section 10(b) effective the 
dates indicated: 
c / 
K/kV 
i>i 
Richmond 
August 19, 1968 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
Chicago, and Kansas City 
August 23, 1968 
Boston 
August 27, 1968 
Dallas 
August 28, 1968 
New York, Atlanta, St. Louis, 
and San Francisco 
August 30, 1968 
Rates approved, effective the same dates, on advances to individuals, 
Partnerships, and corporations other than member banks under the last 
Paragraph of section 13 were as follows: 6-1/4 per cent for the 
Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas 
City, Dallas, and San Francisco Banks and 6-3/4 per cent for the New 
York and Cleveland Banks.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Sherrill 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
a memorandum recommending the following 
action relating to the Board's staff: 
Gregory Mark Zuk as Control Clerk (Trainee), Division of Data 
t50c*jSsing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,487, effective 
e date of entrance upon duty. 

&>r I 
* y J^*"^.' 
8/15/68 
i ii £ > ;» 
-10-
On August 15, 1968, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached as 
indicated: 
U i.r _e Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Item No. 
Letter to American Trust & Savings Bank, 
Dubuque, Iowa, approving the establishment 
of an in-town branch. 
• V : in" 
iusi , 
- - - v. 
Secretary 
^ 
... 

Item No. 1 
8/15/68 
por Immediate release. 
August 15, 1968. 
3 1 7 5 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced its approval of action by the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis reducing the discount rate of that Bank • 
from 5-1/2 per cent to 5-1/4 per cent, effective tomorrow (Friday, 
August 16). 
The Board stated that the change was primarily technical 
After 
<• 
0 align the discount rate with the change in money market conditions 
which had occurred chiefly as a result of the increased fiscal 
restraint and a lower Treasury demand for financing resulting from 
< 
the enactment of the ta:c increase and its related expenditure cuts. 
The discount rate is the interest rate charged member banks 
their borrowings from the Federal Reserve Banks. The rate was last 
changed effective April 19, 1968. 
• ' • "• .1% ' f i '.. 
f < . 
Voting for this action were Chairman Martin and Governors 
tab***VJ 
rtson, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. Governors Mitchell and Daane 
W e r e ab8ent and did not vote. 
-0-
^ 
of » * 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60640 
012) HA 7-1320 
Item No, 
8/15/68 
'' '3 
' 
August 15, 1968 
Mr- D. W. Ernst 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
American Trust & Savings Bank 
Dubuque, Iowa 
Dear Mr. Ernst: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
oy your bank of a branch to be located in the vicinity of the 
intersection of Highway 20 and Kennedy Road, Dubuque, Iowa, 
Provided the branch is established within twelve months from 
date of this letter. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalization of the 
American Trust & Savings Bank is reasonably adequate and 
anagement is considered to be competent, that the proposed 
anch w i n serve the needs and convenience of the community, 
that the branch will not create an undesirable compe-
titive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
JUast^/^L 
Leland Boss 
Vice President 
cc - Board of Governors 
State Banking Dept. 
Examiner's File 
COP 
