MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 6, 1968 

1610 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 6, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics _1/ 
Mr. Reynolds, Assosciate Director, Division 
of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Bernard and Miss McWhirter of the 
Office of the Secretary 
. : ' . . ' . z : \ r J S - 
• 
• - 
• - • 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
1 * T 
After a discussion based on the review during which members 
of the Board requested certain additional data from the staff, members 
of the research divisions other than Mr. Partee withdrew from the 
feting, as did Mr. Bernard, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division 
of Personnel Administration 
Messrs. Doyle, Noble, and Sanders of 
the Legal Division 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1611 
5/6/68 
-2-
Mr. Lawrence of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. McClintock and Goodfellow of the 
Division of Examinations 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by the available members 
of the Board at the meeting on Thursday, May 2, 1968, as described in 
the minutes for that date, were ratified by unanimous vote. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and San Francisco 
on May 2, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing 
schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appro-
priate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
« 
Bank of America. A report on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of a noninsured institution, National Mid-Atlantic 
Bank Limited, Basseterre, St. Kitts, Federation of St. Kitts, Nevis, 
and Anguilla, into Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, 
San Francisco, California, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion stated that 
consummation of the proposed merger would provide increased competition 
to other U.S. banks operating in the international field. 
In a related matter, the application of Bank of America National 
Trust and Savings Association to establish three branches in the 
Federation of St. Kitts, Nevis, and Anguilla was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 1. 

1612 
5/6/68 
-3-
Central Bancorp. Issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's action on April 8, 1968, approving the application of 
Central Bancorp, Miami, Florida, to become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of shares of Central Bank and Trust Company and Central 
Bank of North Dade, both of Miami, was authorized. Copies of the 
documents are attached under Item No. 2. 
Insurance agency subsidiaries. In preparing a reply to a 
letter of August 1, 1967, from Chairman Patman of the House Banking 
and Currency Committee concerning certain services provided by banks, 
the Board's staff determined that at least three State member banks 
had insurance agency subsidiaries, possibly in violation of section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act and paragraph seventh of section 5136 of the 
U.S. Revised Statutes, which with some exceptions forbid State member 
banks from "purchasing" corporate stock. 
A memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated April 26, 
1968, noted that two of the cases involved small banks in Indiana that 
h ad incorporated their insurance agencies at the urging of the State 
banking authorities. The third case involved a small bank in Iowa 
that, in connection with the absorption of another bank, had agreed to 
acquire an unincorporated casualty insurance agency from the chief 
executive officer of the absorbed bank. A corporation was organized to 
take over the operations of the agency, and the stock was being carried 
a s a nonbook asset. In none of the cases did the existence of the 
subsidiary appear to affect the soundness of the bank. 

1613 
5/6/68 
-4-
There appeared to the Division to be two alternatives open 
to the Board. It could order the banks to dissolve the corporations 
or to dispose of the stock. Then, if the banks refused, it could 
institute administrative proceedings. Or the Board could conclude 
that the violations were inconsequential and that efforts at correction 
would conflict with sound administration. The Division recommended 
the second alternative. 
In response to a question, Mr. Shay said it seemed clear that 
the situations did involve violations of the law. There could be sound 
administrative reasons for handling the matter as suggested by the 
Division of Examinations, but as a technical matter he felt it might be 
difficult to justify such a course of action legally. Mr. Hexter noted 
that national banks were permitted, by interpretation of the Comptroller 
of the Currency, to own stock in certain kinds of corporations. It had 
consistently been the Board's interpretation that such ownership was 
in violation of the law and that any change would require new legislation. 
On the other hand, if the Board agreed with the Division of Examinations 
that the violations under consideration were inconsequential it was his 
opinion that the Board, as an administrative agency, was not obliged 
to take action. 
Two Board members (Governors Maisel and Sherrill) favored accepting 
the recommendation of the Division of Examinations, particularly in view 
o f the different position of national banks under the Comptroller's 

1G14 
5/6/68 
-5-
interpretation and the questionable benefit of requiring compliance, 
and moving ahead with an effort to obtain new legislation. The other 
two members present felt that unless and until the law was changed the 
Board should proceed under its long-standing interpretation of the 
existing law and seek to bring about compliance, perhaps through 
consultation with the banks concerned. 
Accordingly, it was decided to consider the matter again at 
another meeting when additional Board members were available. 
Officer's salary at Chicago. Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
Item No. 3) approving the payment of salary to David R. Starin as 
Assistant Cashier at the annual rate fixed by the Bank's Board of 
Directors. 
Savings and loan rates. At the meeting on Thursday, May 2, 
there had been a preliminary discussion of a proposal of the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board to permit savings and loan associations to establish 
accounts designed to compete with the so-called "Golden Passbook" 
accounts offered by banks, but with provision only for forfeiture of 
interest in the event of premature withdrawal and no requirement for 
a showing of hardship. 
Mr. Partee advised that he was today sending the Board members 
a memorandum based on interagency staff discussion that contained some 
additional information with respect to the proposed new accounts. Basi-
cally, such accounts would be restricted to relatively large sums (an 

1615 
5/6/68 
-6-
initial investment of $1,000 would be required), no dividends would 
be paid on any funds withdrawn within the first 90 days, and withdrawals 
beyond that time would forego dividends in the most recent partial 
90-day period. However, funds could be obtained on demand, the only 
sacrifice being in terms of earnings for the current period. The Bank 
Board staff recognized this point but felt constrained by the fact that 
the bylaws of most Federal savings and loan associations and the laws 
of some 40 States would have to be changed to permit a 90-day notice 
provision for withdrawal. 
The ensuing discussion touched on questions such as the viability 
of the present 4 per cent maximum permissible rate for bank passbook 
savings accounts, the impact of a change in that rate on the whole rate 
structure, the ability of savings and loan associations and mutual 
savings banks to pay higher rates than presently allowed on various types 
of accounts, the relationship between the present ceiling rates and 
market interest rates, and the relationship of such matters to monetary 
policy. The discussion was inconclusive, and it was understood that 
the questions involved would be considered further in the light of 
evelopments, including a forthcoming meeting of the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
vU•»?.:! 
1 A •><• : -
S- 3 1 3 3• 
connection with hearings by the Senate Banking 
'^OAui: 
in-£:0uT;;V>:.\ 
r'.r k 
and Currency Committee on S. 3133, the bill to extend the authority to 
regulate maximumrrates of interest or dividends payable by banks and 

1616 
5/6/68 
-7-
savings and loan associations, Governor Robertson related that Senator 
Proxmire reportedly was going to attempt to attach to the bill a 
requirement that the Federal Reserve purchase housing agency obligations, 
according to some predetermined formula, as a means of cushioning the 
impact of monetary policy on the housing market. He understood that 
the Treasury intended to submit a letter opposing such an amendment to 
the bill, which raised the question whether the Board also should submit 
a letter. He was inclined not to send a letter at this time, particularly 
since the details of the Proxmire proposal were not yet available. 
A discussion followed during which Governor Brimmer urged that 
the Board register its opposition to such a proposal at every opportunity, 
if not by letter then by whatever other means might be deemed most effec-
tive. 
No action was taken on the sending of a letter, but Governor 
Robertson indicated that he had been exploring the feasibility of 
~ <•' wyjnry, ivceTiv^ri.iS'j (i.h 
visiting Senator Proxmire for a discussion of the matter. 
> 
CIS 
ill • 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to Virgin Islands National Bank, Charlotte 
Amalie, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, acknowl-
edging receipt of notice of its intent to 
establish two additional branches in the 
Virgin Islands, one to be located in Cruz 
Bay Town, St. John, and the other in 
Kronprindsens Quarter, St. Thomas. 
On May 3, 1968, Governor Robertson approved 
on behalf of the Board memoranda recommend-
ing the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 

1 6 1 
5/6/68 
_8_ 
Appointments 
Roger N. Craine as Economist, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $12,233, effective the 
aate of entrance upon duty. 
anH Q
C a t h e r i n e Schneiders as Research Assistant, Division of Research 
h ! 
? f 1 " ' W i t h b a s i c an*ual salary at the rate of $6,734, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
w-tt-h KJameS E* G l a d d e n a s Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
itn basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
li": 
ay 
with K a m? n M c G h e e a s Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
entrant 
^
^ 
S a l a r y a t t h e r a t e o f $3,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
with 
L e e R°S e r s a s Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
e n t r a n " % r d u t y ! a l a r y " ^ 
° f $ 3' 7 7 6' e f f e C t i V e t h e d a t e ° f 
Salary increases, effective May 5, 1968 
J'-hiAir- 
Lo'ii 
S ' 4 x n v 
. . 
. 
~ 
Name and title 
w 
, , 
Basic annual salary 
Division 
From 
To 
Research and Statistics 
J Utitle Ffrn1*7' E ™
1
S
t 
( c h a n g e l n 
* 7' 4 0 9 
$8,054 
t w 
° m R e s e a r < * Assistant) 
Dorothy Swink, Statistical Assistant 
6,495 
6,957 
Administrative Services 
Overton W. Freeland, Mail Clerk 
4 l n« 
a aaa 
Alice Geris, Charwoman 
S i X V t u ^ M a T
1 ^ ^ 
5;32 
James T s ^ : S a J a d
c
M a k e r » Cafeteria 
4,784 
4 910 
Lawrence I Z l l ' 
^ 
° l e r k 
6 > 3 2 3 
6 681 
t u 
? 
' 
W a y t e s » Mail Clerk 
A m a 
/ 
Williams, Mail Clerk 
^ 3 8 2 
tttt 

1618 
5/6/68 
-9-
Transfers 
Eileen Betty Pollack, Clerk-Typist, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, from the National Income, Labor Force, and Trade Section to the 
Banking Section, effective May 5, 1968. 
Martha Roe, from the position of Stenographer, Office of the 
Secretary to the position of Stenographer, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective May 6, 1968. 
Adeline E. Tweed, from the position of General Assistant to the 
position of Administrative Assistant, Division of Data Processing, with 
an increase in basic annual salary from $8,861 to $9,657, effective 
May 5, 1968. 
Richard L. Breen, Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and 
tatistics, to a different budget position in the Banking Section, with 
an increase in basic annual salary from $5,937 to $6,342, effective 
May 5, 1968. 
.grange j n working honr« 
Janice Peskin, Economist, Division of Research and 
rom an 8-hour to a 5-hour work day, with annual salary 
97,880, effective May 5, 1968. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
ASSgPtance of resi^nat-.inn 
Russell E. Fisk, Guard, Division of Administrative Services, effec-
tive the close of business May 3, 1968. 
Permission to en^a^e in outside activity 
to w \ 
F r e d e r i c k Taylor, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
work at a beach resort on a part-time basis. 
On the dates shown, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
as indicated: 
Statistics, 
at the rate 

1613 
5/6/68 
_ 1 0 -
On May 3T 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
approving the appointment of John L. Steed as 
assistant examiner and the reappointment of 
Donald E. Beazley as assistant examiner. 
_By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The Ohio Savings & Trust Company, 
New Philadelphia, Ohio, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish an in-town 
branch. 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
winston-Salem, North Carolina, granting an 
extension of time within which to establish 
a branch in Kinston. 
Letter to Kanawha Banking and Trust Company, 
Charleston, West Virginia, granting an extension 
or time within which to establish an in-town 
branch. 
Letter to Union Trust Company of Maryland, 
Baltimore, Maryland, approving an investment 
in bank premises. 
On May 6 T 1968 
g2_the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
regarding the application of Thorndale State Bank, 
norndale, T e x a s > f o r continuation of deposit 
insurance after withdrawal from membership in 
trie Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to The Vienna Trust Company, Vienna, 
Virginia, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Fairfax. 
Item No. 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

1620 
- l i -
5/6/68 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Letter to Savannah Bank & Trust Company, 
Savannah, Georgia, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish an 
in-town branch. 
Item No. 
11 
' 
V v - : 
i ' • i 0- • I : 
'•• ' ". r 
• 
. . . 
. 
. . . 
. 
Deputy Secretary 
' • • '''i 
: ivt 
. 
• • 
. . . . 
• • 
'' ; ^ " ; ' - 'V* 
" y . v , v 
. . . 
. . . . 
. 
t' .•• • • 

l G J w l 
B O A R D DF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 6, 1968. 
Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
s permission to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Associa-
ion ( B of A"), San Francisco, California, pursuant to the provisions 
o£ Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish three branches 
in the Federation of St. Kitts, Nevis and Anguilla, located in Basse-
terre and Sandy Point, St. Kitts and The Valley, Anguilla, and to 
perate and maintain such branches subject to the provisions of such 
Section and of Regulation M. 
l t i s understood that these branches will result from the 
BnUt*?? 
° f t h G o f f i c e s o f y°ur subsidiary National Mid-Atlantic 
L^ited into direct branches of B of A, through the merger of 
said subsidiary into B of A. 
>
6 
b 
bll5. 
Unless the branches are actually established and opened for 
e r n n r f u ^ b r a n c h e s 
B of A on or before May 1, 1969, all rights 
g anted hereby shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority 
f
a
r
t
, 
W i U a u t o m a tically terminate on that date. Please in-
FranM 
u ° f G o v e r n o r s trough the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
B of a r' W h G ^ t h e s e branches are opened for business as branches of 
ThP R ™ f i n f o r m a t i o n as to the exact location of each branch. 
locaH 
I 
a l S ° b G P ^ ^ y informed of any future change in 
•Location of any of these branches. 
made win, ^ 
f° r e8 o i n8 authorization by the Board of Governors is 
Corno,fl r'\l eTerence to any consent by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
of h 
J" 
b e r e c* u i r e d u n d e r the provisions of Section 18(c) 
ot the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. 

Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
- 2 -
f n r o. 
. A s ? o u a r e a w a r e> with respect to the establishment of 
fnrm f branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the 
° f allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be re-
e f f W a S
T
f ° r e i g n a s s e t s f o r P u r P o s e s of the foreign credit restraint 
o f f l \ 
I n . V l e W ° f t h e Board's concern with minimizing the impact 
mission1?11 l n v e s t m e n t s o n the balance of payments, the foregoing per-
U 
n Is S l v e n w i t h the understanding that in the conduct of the 
o : ! ™ 
°P e r a t i o ns maximum reliance will be placed on resources 
that flrtv ° ^ S i d G t h G U n i t G d S t a t e S ' Accordingly, it is understood 
nac any additional investment required will be made within the 
in effort-8 6 S t a b l i s h e d u n d e r ^ e foreign credit restraint effort now 
tie! of 
^ u ? 
a p p l y t 0 t h e f o r e i g n lending and investment activi-
s 
r L
r 
k 
^ 
B a n k ° f 
N e w York, and that due con-
laeratton is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

n 
1623 
Item No.- 2 
5/6/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
t 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
* i 
CENTRAL BANCORP, 
» 
Miami, Florida, 
» 
i 
for approval of action to become a bank 1 
holding company through the acquisition 1 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
1 
II 
! T r 
0 f C e n t r a l Bank and Trust Company1 
and Central Bank of North Dade, both of 1 
Miami, Florida. 
i 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Cotnpany Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Central Bancorp, Miami, Florida, 
f°r the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant would become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
o f the voting shares of Central Bank and Trust Company and Central 
of North Dade, both of Miami, Florida, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n° t l C e t 0 t h C Comptroller of the State of Florida of receipt of the 
^Plication and requested his views and recommendation. He r e c o r d e d 
approval of the application. 

-2-
1621 
Notice of receipt of the application x^as published in the 
Federal Register on December 29, 1967 (32 Federal Register 21006), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Borad. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
i S aPPr°ved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of the Order, 
U n l e s s 8 u c h Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 6th day of May, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Unanimous, with all members present, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

l G i - 5 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CENTRAL BANCORP, MIAMI, FLORIDA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Central Bancorp, Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), has filed with 
the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956 
» an application for approval of action to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Central Bank and Trust Company ("Central Bank") and of Central 
Bank of North Dade ("North Dade Bank"), both located in Miami, Florida, 
a n d b o t h nonmember insured banks. 
Central Bank (deposits $48.7 million)^ and North Dade Bank 
(deposits $3.9 million) both are located in Dade County, Florida, approx-
imately nine miles apart. North Dade Bank was organized and opened for 
u s "ess in 1964 by the principal stockholders of Central Bank, and the 
0 banks have been operated largely by common management and under com-
control since that time. Control of both banks is now vested in an 
estate, w l t h t h e d e c e a s e d , s w l d o w a g e x e c u t r i x # 
H o l d i n g s o f t h e e 8 t a t ^ 
to6ether with 
^ 
C h o s e o f c o m m o n directors of the two banks, account for 
P e r cent of the stock of Central Bank and 76 per cent of the stock 
o f North Dade Bank. 
^^^appJicablf to r l l l l l ° l 
I
T 
3°' 1 9 6 ?' U n l e S S 
noted, adjusted 
to reriect holding company acquisitions approved to date. 

1 6 2 6 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
w a s given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller 
of the State of Florida. The State Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substan-
* 
l l y t o lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which 
n a n y other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board 
finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be 
served. jn e a c h c a g e t h e Boar(j i g reqUired to take into consideration 
t h e financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
o f the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
^Qkino' 
»g organizations in Florida, of which seven are bank holding com-
panies, account for 37 per cent of the total deposits held by the State1s 
447 in' 
nsured commercial banks. Eleven bank holding companies are located 
: %, 

1627 
-3-
in Florida; in the aggregate, they account for 34 per cent of such 
deposits. If Applicant's proposal is consummated, it xrould become the 
tenth largest of the State's bank holding companies, and would control 
.62 per cent of Florida bank deposits. 
In Dade County there are 63 banks. Twelve of these are 
affiliated with four bank holding companies, and account, in the 
aggregate, for 46 per cent of county deposits. Central Bank holds 
2 5 
* 
p e r c e n t o f deposits in Dade County; North Dade Bank holds .2 
Per cent. Applicant would be the smallest bank holding company in 
the county. 
^ 
The area delineated by Applicant as the primary service 
area 
of Central Bank lies wholly within Dade County and includes a 
substantial portion of the Greater Miami Area. North Dade Bank is 
i 
' • > 
°cated within this area, nine miles to the north of Central Bank, 
b u t serves a much smaller portion of the area. Central Bank ranks 
twelfth in size (2.6 per cent of total deposits) among the 52 banks 
located i n this area; North Dade Bank ranks forty-eighth in size among 
e®e banks (.2 per cent of total deposits) and is the smallest of 
Ci v e banks located within the immediate area which it serves. 
The data presented indicate that Applicant's formation 
Would H 
a V e a ne8ligible effect upon the degree of concentration in any 
** V c n t a r e a' 
0 n t h e record before the Board, it is concluded that 
0|*«Up«iiation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly, 
r be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
aosPolize the business of banking in any relevant area. 
27* |[1Q 
tmm 
° f individn,fr0m l7hiCh t h e b a n k d e r i v e s o v e* 06 per cent of its deposits 
•*ais» Partnerships, and corporations ("IPC deposits")1 

Considering next the probable effect of the proposal on 
existing and potential competition, it appears that there is a signi-
ficant degree of deposit overlap between the two banks. Central Bank 
derives approximately $2.7 million in IPC deposits from the area served 
by North Dade Bank, an amount which, while representing but a small por-
tion of its total deposits, is substantial in relation to the deposits 
°f the smaller bank. Despite this deposit overlap, however, the two 
banks do not appear to be true competitors. In addition to the facts 
that North Dade Bank was organized by controlling stockholders of 
Central Bank and that the two banks continue to be subject to common 
control, the same individual serves as Chairman and President of both 
banks and the earnings of North Dade Bank appear to depend in large 
Part upon its participation in loans originated by Central Bank. Con-
tinuation of the affiliation of the two banks does not appear to be 
dependent upon approval of the present application. Other factors 
Siting potential competition between the two banks are the distance 
between them and the large number of other, and larger, banking alterna-
t e s in the area. 
Consummation of the proposed transaction would have little 
effect on the competitive ability of either bank. The two organiza-
ions presently function in much the same manner as a bank and branch 
would continue to do so. Both banks face strong competition from 
Serous other banks, and such competition would not be significantly 
affected. 

1629 
On the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed transaction xjould not substantially lessen competition, 
tend to create a monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in any 
section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects, -
Applicant is a newly formed corporation and has no financial or operating 
history. Its financial condition, managerial resources, and prospects 
would be entirely dependent upon those of the subsidiary banks. 
Central Bank is well capitalized and appears to be competently 
managed. It has had adequate growth and excellent earnings and its 
Prospects are believed to be satisfactory whether or not the instant 
Proposal is consummated. 
North Dade Bank, organized by principal stockholders of Central 
^nk, is adequately capitalized, and its management, under the direction 
0 f Cei*tral Bank's President, is satisfactory. Prospects of North Dade 
Bank appear to be dependent on its continued close affiliation with 
Central Bank. However, since it appears unlikely that the present affil-
iation would be dissolved if the instant application were denied, the 
bank'o 
s prospects would not be significantly affected by the proposal. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are found to 
b e consistent with approval of the application. 
f. 
Convenience and needs of.-the communities involved. - The banking 
needs of the individuals and businesses located in the areas served by 
Central Bank and North Dade Bank apparently are being adequately served 

1630 
6-
by the large number of commercial banks competing in the area. Applicant 
does not assert that formation of the proposed holding company will 
result in significant additions to, or improvements upon, the services 
which the two banks as presently affiliated are able to provide. 
The evidence relating to the convenience and needs of the 
areas involved is consistent with, but provides little additional weight 
in favor of, approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
M°y 6, 1968. 

1631 
B O A R D DF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE 5Y5TEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
5/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 6, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salary to Mr. David R. Starin as an Assistant Cashier of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago at the rate of $14,000 
per annum for the period June 1 through December 31, 1968. 
This is the rate fixed by your Board of Directors as re-
ported in your letter of April 25. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

163 
_ _ A „ 
Item No. 4 
BOARD D F GDVERNDRS 
5/6/68 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20351 
a d d r e s s 
o f f i c i a l 
c d r r e s p d n o e 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 3, 1968. 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the requests contained 
in your letters of May 1, 1968, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the appointment of John L. Steed as an assistant 
examiner and the reappointment of Donald E. Beazley 
as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond, effective today. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

* 
i G m 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 5 
5/6/68 
t b p v 
M a y 3, 1968 
U r - D. B. Abbuhl, Vice President 
Ohio Savings It Trust Company 
^ • w Philadelphia. Ohio 
D«*r Mr. Abbuhl: 
5 , , ^ 
O n behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal He. 
•«rr# System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve 
of Cleveland has approved your request for an extension of time 
*ithia which your bank m a y establish a branch at the southwest corner 
of the intersection of Commercial Avenue and South Broadway, N e w 
hiladelphla, Ohio. This extension expires on M a y 17, 1969. 
O n the day operations are started, will you please wire us 
the branch has been formally opened for business. 
Very truly yours. 
Chief Examiner 

Item No. 6 
5 / 6 / 6 8 
1 6 3 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
BANK OF 
CLEVELAND 
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 
23213 
May 3, 1968. 
COPY 
Mr. Ralph X. Fraaier, 
Assistant Vice Fresident, 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Vintton-Salcm, North Carolina 27102. 
Dear Ralph: 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, on 
behalf of arul under authority delegated by the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve 3y stent, has 
Approved the application of Wachovia Bank and Trust 
Company, Winston-Salem, Borth Carolina, for a one-year 
•xtension of time within which to establish a branch 
to be known as the West Vernon Office end to be located 
In the Ternon Ferk Hall Shopping Center on West Vernon 
Avenue In the city of Kinston, Lenoir County, Korth 
Carolina. The new expiration date Is June 2, 1969. 
Flease advise us when a definite date for 
opening this office has been determined. 
Tours very truly, 
/S/ John L. Nosker 
John L. Mosker, 
Vice Fresident. 

Item NO. 7 1 6 3 5 
5/6/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND 
COPY 
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 
23213 
May 3, 1968. 
Mr. William H. Shearer, Jr., Fresldent, 
Kutiwhi Banking and Trust Company, 
Charlastem, Vast Virginia 23322. 
Dear Bill: 
Tha Federal Ratarva Bank of Richmond, on bahalf 
of and under authority delegated by tha Board of Governors 
of tha Vadaral Raserva System, has approved your request 
for an axtension of tha period In which your branch at 
tha southwest corner of Virginia Street Baat and Summers 
Street must be established. Tha extension is for an 
additional three months from tha present expiration data 
of May 11, 1968, or until August 11, 1968. 
Best regards, 
Tours very truly, 
i/S/ John L. Nosker 
John L. Hosker, 
Vice President. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
CLEVELAND 
R I C H M O N D , 
V I R G I N I A 
2 3 2 1 3 
Hay 3, 1968. 
Board of Directors, 
Union Truat Coopiny of Uivyliad, 
Baltlnore, Karyland 
21203. 
Cantlanani 
The federal Reserve Rank of Rlchraond, acting on 
behalf of and under authority delegated by tha Board of 
Oovemors of tha Federal leserve System and pursuant to 
provlalona of taction 24A of tha federel Reserve Act, haa 
approved an lnvestnant of $170,000 in bank premises by 
Onion Truat Company of Haryland, of vhlch #130,000 la 
incldant to tha relocation of tha Oruncaatla Offlca and 
•40,000 la for tha purpose of estebllshlng a branch on 
Maryland Xouta 404, Hlllsboro, Carolina County, Maryland. 
Tour* vary truly, 
/ S / 
J o h n 
L . 
N o s k e r 
John L. Qosker, 
Vice President. 
W U r m o h 

m 
•• 
' • ^ l r e s ^ * " 
1637 
BDARD D F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
5/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 7, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
°ear Mr. DeHority: 
c 
Reference is made to your letter of April 29, 1968, 
^oncerning the application of Thorndale State Bank, Thorndale, 
xas, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
m membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Divi 
U n d e r d e l e 8 a t e d authority, the Acting Director of the 
G o v e 1 0 n ° f E x a m i n a t i o n s h a s stated, on behalf of the Board of 
udo r ^ r S ' t h a t t h e r e h a v e b e e n n o corrective programs urged 
con 
b a n k ' ° r a 8 r e e d t o by it, which have not been fully 
w 0 u r
r
d
' 
a n d 
t h e r e 
a r e 
n ° Pro8rams that the Acting Director 
bank <- 
i S e b e i n c o r P ° r a t e d as conditions of admitting the 
Fodo ? membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the 
eQeral Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1635 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 
5/6/68 
10 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
The Vienna Trust Company, 
Vienna, Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the establishment of a branch by The Vienna Trust Company, Vienna, 
Virginia, at 4087 Chain Bridge Road, Fairfax, Virginia, provided the 
branch is established within six months from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application it has been determined that 
your management is adequate, that the proposed branch will serve the 
convenience and needs of the community, and that establishment of the 
branch will not tend to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
As indicated to you in a letter dated April 19, 1968, approving a 
branch of your bank in the Tysons Corner Center, it is understood 
that definite plans to increase the capital funds of your bank will 
be formulated upon completion of a capital study now in progress by 
your bank's parent holding company. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF A T L A N T A 
i 
1639 
Item No. 11 
5/6/68 
May 6, 1968 
Board of Directors 
Savannah Bank L Trust Company 
Savannah, Georgia 31402 
Gentlemen: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting under duly delegated 
authority, this Bank approves an extension of the time 
within which a branch may be established at 126 East 
Bryan Street, Savannah, Georgia, to December 15, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
Monroe Kimbrel 
President 
SECRETARY'S DELEGATION DOCKET 
COPY 
i 
