MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 26, 1968 
} 
• 

1 . 1 6 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, March 26, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, 
Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also 
were present for portions of the 
meeting. 
Marine Corporation. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated February 23, 1968, from the Division of Examinations, with other 
Pertinent papers, regarding the application of The Marine Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of The Germantown State Bank, 
Germantown, Wisconsin. 
In view of the small size of the Germantown bank and the fact that 
this was the initial entry of a bank holding company into Washington County, 
the Division concluded that the transaction would have no significant 
effect on concentration in any relevant area. The Division further felt 
that any present or potential competition between the Germantown bank 

3/26/68 
-2-
and any of the applicant's subsidiaries was insignificant. The con-
venience and needs factor provided some support for approval and the 
banking factors as they related to the Germantown bank weighed in favor 
of approval. 
Governor Brimmer drew attention to various communities near 
Germantown in which banks had been acquired recently by bank holding 
companies and said it seemed clear that population and industry were 
moving to the west and northwest from the Milwaukee core area. The 
Bureau of the Census had drawn the metropolitan area of Milwaukee to 
include Germantown. Although the latter lay at a distance of 17 miles, 
that was not great in the light of the system of highways in the area. 
While there was no competition of any importance involved in the present 
application, the Germantown area appeared to be a location that might 
attract further proposals for acquisitions or branches. Two questions 
appeared pertinent: what kind of banking structure was likely to develop, 
and what were the relative merits of de novo branches as compared with 
acquisition of an existing institution. It seemed to him that these 
questions were germane not only to this application but also to that of 
First Wisconsin Bankshares to acquire shares of a new bank in Milwaukee, 
next on the agenda for today's meeting. 
Questions by members of the Board brought out that the ability 
of other banks to enter the Germantown area would not be affected either 
by acquisition of the bank involved in the present proposal or by estab-
lishment of a new bank in Milwaukee, as contemplated by the other 

J l t i G 
3/26/68 
-3-
application before the Board today, regardless of whether or not the 
banks involved were holding company subsidiaries. 
Governor Mitchell said he would vote for approval, for the 
reasons advanced by the staff. He thought there was a positive reason 
for allowing a large institution to enter the area. No such institu-
tion was in the area now, and there was a tendency for local banks to 
become lax in their services in such circumstances. 
Governor Daane and Governor Maisel expressed agreement with the 
staff recommendation, following which Governor Brimmer indicated that he 
also would approve, with some reservations of the kind reflected by his 
earlier remarks. Although it was important to stimulate competition, as 
Governor Mitchell had suggested, he was disappointed that the Germantown 
bank had not made more effort to solve its management problem. 
The application was thereupon approved unanimously. It was 
understood that an order and statement reflecting this decision would 
be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
First Wisconsin Bankshares. The Division of Examinations had 
submitted to the Board, with a memorandum dated August 24, 1967, and 
other pertinent papers, the application of First Wisconsin Bankshares 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of First Northwestern 
National Bank of Milwaukee, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a proposed new bank. 
Three banks in the area had filed objections and requested a hearing. 
After consideration of the request on December 7, 1967, the Board had 

1170 
3/26/68 
-4-
authorized the holding of an oral presentation, which took place on 
January 12, 1968. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 21, 
1968, from the Legal Division, to which were attached memoranda from 
the Division of Examinations and the Banking Markets Section analyzing 
the statements, documentary evidence, and arguments presented during 
and following the oral presentation. The Legal Division's memorandum 
pointed out that since the application involved a proposed new bank, no 
actual competition would be eliminated. Neither was there any indica-
tion that the proposal would lessen potential competition, since First 
Northwestern National Bank would not be established if the application 
were denied and there was no competing application to establish a bank 
in the area. The principal competitive issues raised by the application 
appeared to be (1) whether the establishment of the bank at this time 
was so premature, as related to the community need for such a facility, 
as to constitute "warehousing" of a site; (2) whether the present size 
and dominance of First Wisconsin Bankshares was such that no external 
expansion should be permitted; and (3) whether the acquisition of the 
bank by First Wisconsin might affect the viability of banks presently 
competing in the area. The Division of Examinations and the Banking 
Markets Section recommended that the application be approved. The Legal 
Division concurred and expressed the belief that such action would be 
sustained by a reviewing court. 

1170 
3/26/68 
-5-
Governor Maisel stated that he would like to raise a basic 
question regarding the approach the Board should take to applications 
of this kind. The three bank holding companies with headquarters in 
Milwaukee accounted for more than 66 per cent of total deposits in the 
metropolitan area and 73 per cent of total deposits in Milwaukee County. 
First Wisconsin, the largest banking organization in the State, controlled 
about 34 per cent of total deposits in the metropolitan area and about 
37.5 per cent of total deposits in Milwaukee County. If only accounts 
under $10,000 were measured, First Wisconsin controlled approximately 
25 per cent in the metropolitan area. Governor Maisel then read passages 
from several court decisions that he believed had a bearing on the matter; 
the purport of the quotations was that the antitrust laws require that a 
trend toward excessive concentration be arrested in its incipiency. 
As he understood it, Governor Maisel continued, the Board must 
first determine whether a particular proposal would be anticompetitive. 
If it would, the Board had authority to approve only if adverse competitive 
effects were offset by benefits to the public interest. The first question, 
then, was whether the Board believed the circumstances here involved did 
in fact represent oligopoly. If it did, the question was whether the 
situation would be further aggravated if the holding company were per-
mitted to acquire a new bank. If the answer was in the affirmative, the 
next step should be to determine whether there were offsetting factors 
that would justify approval. His own view was that it was quite clear 

l i f c y 
3/26/68 
-6-
here that the transaction would increase the oligopolistic power of a 
holding company that already held a fairly large share of the market. 
The Board then discussed the market area that was considered 
most significant; the relative competitive impact of acquisition by a 
holding company of a new bank and of an existing bank; the relevance 
of recent court decisions in antitrust cases; and whether, as suggested 
by Governor Mitchell, Governor Maisel's line of reasoning would preclude 
expansion in any form if the institution that sought to expand was deemed 
already dominant. 
Governor Brimmer pointed out that the location proposed for the 
new bank had been available heretofore but no other group had chosen to 
establish a bank there. If the proposal had contemplated that the hold-
ing company would take over an existing bank, it seemed to him rather 
obvious that denial would be in order. While Governor Maisel had seemed 
to be suggesting that the Board should adopt a standard that a holding 
company system in a position such as that of First Wisconsin should not 
be permitted to expand further, regardless of the device used, he did 
not think such a conclusion was required by the statute. He made a 
distinction between a bank being established by a holding company and 
a bank started by other organizers. The understanding was that if this 
application was turned down, the proposed bank would not be established. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that the question raised by 
Governor Maisel was basic and important. He suggested that the staff 

1170 
3/26/68 
-7-
be asked to explore the question in depth and report its conclusions, 
even if a decision on the present case had to be postponed. That might 
also provide an opportunity to see if more information could be obtained 
regarding the assertion that the proposed new bank would benefit the 
convenience and needs of the community, which he did not believe had 
been demonstrated convincingly. 
Governor Robertson agreed that it would be well to defer a 
decision pending further staff analysis and to return to the case at a 
time when more members of the Board could participate. The Board should 
not risk flying in the face of court decisions, especially with respect 
to an application from an institution that held so large a part of the 
banking business in a certain market. 
Accordingly, a decision on the application was deferred pending 
analysis by the staff of the questions that had been raised. 
Security measures for financial institutions. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated March 25, 1968, from the Legal Division 
regarding requests from the House and Senate Banking and Currency Com-
mittees for the Board's views regarding bills to provide security 
Measures for banks and other financial institutions. The legislation, 
which the Division understood would be supported by the other bank 
supervisory agencies, would be known as the Bank Protection Act of 1968. 
a letter of January 2, 1968, the Board, in reporting to the Bureau 
the Budget on a virtually identical draft bill proposed by the 

1.171 
3/26/68 
-8-
Department of Justice, had indicated that it favored transmission of 
the proposed legislation to Congress for consideration, including an 
opportunity for financial institutions to express their views. Attached 
to the memorandum was a draft of reply to the current inquiries. 
After discussion, during which there was agreement upon a change 
in language suggested by Governor Robertson, the letter was approved 
unanimously. A copy of the letter sent to Chairman Sparkman of the 
Senate Committee is attached as Item No. 1; a similar letter was sent 
to Chairman Patman of the House Committee. 
Distribution of reports. Governor Mitchell referred to the 
report that was being prepared for the Board on the fundamental reap-
praisal of the discount mechanism and recommended that distribution be 
made simultaneously to the Reserve Bank Presidents in order that their 
comments might be available in connection with consideration of the 
report. 
Board members expressed no ob jection to the recommended procedure, 
with the understanding, however, that no publication or other distribution 
outside the System would be undertaken pending further consideration by 
the Board. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he would intend to follow a 
similar procedure with respect to the report on bank credit cards cur-
rently being completed by a System task force, and no objection was 
indicated. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1170 
3/26/68 
-9-
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson today 
approved on behalf of the Board the follow-
ing items: 
Letter to Mrs. Claudia Booth, North Arlington, Virginia, confirming 
arrangements for her to provide shorthand instruction as an activity of 
the Board's Employee Training and Development Program, with payment of 
a fee of $8 per hour. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointments 
Barry Edward Huber as Experimental Designer, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $9,657, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty, it being understood that the Board would 
pay the cost of moving his household effects from Little Rock, Arkansas, 
to Washington, D. C., along with his transportation expenses. 
Hans Stoll as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $14,857, effective the date of entrance 
upon duty, it being understood that the Board would pay the cost of mov-
ing his household effects from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to Washington, 
D. C., along with transportation expenses for Mr. Stoll and his family. 
Transfer 
Ruth G. King, from the position of Statistical Clerk, Division of 
Data Processing, to the position of Statistical Assistant, Division of 
International Finance, with an increase in basic annual salary from 
$5,493 to $5,937, effective upon assuming her new duties. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Virginia Herbert, Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business March 15, 1968. 
On March 26, 1968, actions were taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
as indicated: 

3/26/68 
-10-
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
Banks transmitting revised forms FR 70 (bank 
merger application), FR 70C (certificate of 
publication of notice of bank merger), FR Y-l 
(application to become a bank holding company), 
and FR Y-2 (application for acquisition of bank 
shares). 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
approving the appointment of Patricia J. Whittemore 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
approving the designation of David A. Lewis 
as special assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
approving the appointment of Robert M. McClaskey, Jr., 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to The Colonial Bank & Trust Company, Waterbury 
Connecticut, approving the establishment of an in-town 
branch. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to Iron and Glass Dollar Savings Bank, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish a branch in 
Mount Lebanon Township. 

Item No. 
6 
XXftl 
3/26/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 2 0 5 5 1 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
March 27, 1968 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of February 21, 1968, 
requesting the views of the Board of Governors regarding S. 3001, 
a bill "To provide security measures for banks and other financial 
institutions". In essence this bill would require the Comptroller 
of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board to promulgate rules establishing minimum 
standards for the financial institutions under their respective 
jurisdictions with respect to the installation, maintenance, and 
operation of security devices and procedures (1) to discourage 
robberies, burglaries, and larcenies, and (2) to assist in the 
identification and apprehension of persons committing such acts. 
The Board believes that every reasonable effort should 
be made to thwart the rising tide of crimes against financial 
institutions. The Board has been particularly concerned about this 
problem and has taken steps to cope with it. For example, our 
examiners have been instructed to discuss the matter with the manage-
ment of banks and, jointly with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, we have developed a questionnaire as a means of calling the 
attention of banks to existing inadequacies in security controls and 
protective devices. The Board expects to continue to emphasize this 
approach and to provide banks under its supervision with literature 
on the subject, including a brochure prepared in the Department of 
Justice. 

w v 
fe;? 
•ViS'-'S 
1175 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
- 2 -
•t/i 
f
M 
'1 - , 
h n t y d H 
<r\. 
J
'
A
' 
The Board believes that appropriate security measures for 
any individual bank must depend upon such factors as the incidence 
'1&& 
of crime in the community in which the bank is situated, the bankfs 
location within the community, and the physical characteristics of 
the bank's quarters. In addition, what a bank might reasonably be 
required to adopt in the way of security measures is related to the 
costs of such measures and the bankfs financial resources. Consequent-
ly, the formulation of regulatory standards with respect to security 
devices and procedures that would be both workable and equitable 
would involve considerable difficulties. Nevertheless, the Board 
believes that it is possible to establish practicable minimum 
standards for this purpose. 
Accordingly, the Board favors the proposed legislation. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
' . i i 
I I P ; 
£ 
V " • 
''--v.'; ; 

Item No. 2 j ^ 
„ 
3/26/68 
' W - Y V 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
• . 
C. 205S1 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R C B P O N D C N C I 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 26, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
Acting under authority delegated by the Board, the 
Director of the Division of Examinations has approved revisions 
of forms FR 70, 70Ct Y-l and Y-2 for immediate use. A copy of 
each of the forms is enclosed and a supply is being forwarded 
under separate cover to the Vice President in charge of the 
Examinations Department. 
While the use of the forms is to be effective upon 
receipt, it is suggested that any former application form3 
recently released to an applicant be recalled and replaced with 
the new forms. Of course, you would not be expected to recall 
the old form if the applicant has already completed a substan-
tial portion of the application. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL .RESERVE BANKS 

BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 31 I 
3/26/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 27, 1968 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of March 22, 1968, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board 
of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Patricia J. Whittemore as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

'tftivjfcw. 
Item No. 5 1 1 7 3 
3/26/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• 
F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
B O A R D 
'."t.'i^V,-
& i.v V' 
w • 
m 
.i ' 
-
March 27, 1968 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of March 22, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors, under 
delegated authority, approves the designation of David A. 
Lewis as a special assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston. 
It is noted that Mr. Lewis is a cooperative student 
at Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts, and that 
under this plan the student works for periods of from three 
to six months and then resumes his studies for like periods. 
Accordingly, approval of the designation of Mr. Lewis as a 
special assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston is given for such periods as he is actually employed 
by your Bank. When Mr. Lewis resumes his studies at the 
university, any form of commission issued to him should be 
canceled and returned to your Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 1 1 7 3 
3/26/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 27, 1968 
Mr. R. M. Stephenson, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Stephenson: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of March 22, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Robert M. 
McClaskey, Jr., as an assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Please advise if the appointment 
is not made effective April 15, 1968, as planned. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 XXftl 
3/26/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E 3 P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 27, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
The Colonial Bank & Trust Company, 
Waterbury, Connecticut. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the establishment of a branch by The Colonial Bank & 
Trust Company, Waterbury, Connecticut, at the intersection of 
North Main, Grove, and Bishop Streets, Waterbury, Connecticut, 
provided the branch is established within six months from the 
date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branch would serve the convenience and needs of the community, 1 
and that establishment of the branch would not tend to create an 
undesirable competitive situation. It is understood that various 
means to strengthen your bank's capital structure are being 
considered. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 7 
3/26/68 
March 26, 1968 
Mr. William M. Denamore, Preaident 
Iron and Glaaa Dollar Savinga Bank 
Plttaburgh, Pennaylvania 
Dear Mr. Denamor e: 
On behalf of the Board of GoTernora of the Federal Re-
•«rve System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Feaerve 
Bank of Cleveland ha a approved your request for an extenaion of time 
within which your bank may eatabliah a branch at 602 Caatle Shannon 
Boulevard. Mount Lebanon Townahip, Allegheny County, Pennaylvania, 
Thia extenaion expiree on October 14, 1968. 
On the day operationa are atarted, will you pleaae wire ua 
that the branch haa been formally opened for buaineaa. 
Very truly youra. 
H. W. Huning 
Vice Preaident 
