MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 8, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, January 8, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. 01Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 

45 
1/8/70 
-15-
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
"of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions. 
The following letters were approved unanimously after considera 
tion of background material that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Organization Committee of The 
1 
Bank on Longboat Key, Longboat Key, Florida, 
approving the application made on behalf of 
the proposed new bank for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget commenting 
2 
on a draft bill to change the fiscal year of 
the Federal Government to coincide with the 
calendar year. 
Letter to the Chairman of the Conference of 
3 
First Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks inviting the Conference to hold its 
spring meeting in Washington in April 1970, 
with dinner at a local hotel. 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to a report, for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, on the 

46 
1/8/70 
-15-
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Armada State 
Bank, Armada, Michigan, into First National Bank in Mount Clemens, Mount 
Clemens, Michigan. The conclusion stated that the proposed merger would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report was approved, for transmittal to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of The Union National Bank of Troy, Troy, New York, into First Trust 
Company of Albany, National Association, Albany, New York. The con-
clusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of First Trust 
Company of Albany, National Association, a subsidiary of 
Bankers Trust New York Corporation, and The Union National 
Bank of Troy would eliminate some existing competition 
between them and potential for increased competition between 
them. The proposal would also permit the largest bank hold-
ing company in the State to expand its operations through 
merger in a market in which it already operates. 
The overall competitive effects of the proposed merger 
would be adverse. 
Governor Mitchell was of the opinion that the competitive effects 
would be no more than slightly adverse, particularly since "home office 
protection" in Troy would be eliminated. 
Jefferson Bancorp. The Board authorized the issuance of an 
order and statement reflecting approval on September 15, 1969, of the 
application of Jefferson Bancorp, Inc., Miami Beach, Florida, to become 
a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of Jefferson 
National Bank of Miami Beach and Jefferson National Bank at Sunny Isles. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 4. 

47 
1/8/70 
-15-
Interlocking directorship. The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
had submitted an inquiry by Merchandise National Bank of Chicago, 
Illinois, whether service by a director of Wilmette State Bank, Wilmette, 
Illinois, as a director of Merchandise National would violate section 8 
of the Clayton Act. In a memorandum dated January 2, 1970, the Legal 
Division pointed out that the question turned on an exception in the 
law and in the Board's Regulation L (Interlocking Bank Relationships 
under the Clayton Act) that permitted interlocking services if the 
banks or any of their offices were not located in the same, or contig-
uous or adjacent, cities, towns, or villages. Analysis of geographical 
considerations, in the light of several previous decisions by the Board 
in comparable circumstances, supported a conclusion that Wilmette and 
Chicago are adjacent and the interlocking service was therefore not 
permitted. The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had given that answer 
to the question on past occasions, but now requested that the Board 
take the reverse position, citing reasons that the Legal Division did 
not find persuasive. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that a negative ruling was 
unreasonable because the two banks were not in competition with each 
other. Discussion of that point brought out that the statute had at 
one time specified a test of whether banks were in substantial competi-
tion. However, because of the difficulty of making such a determination 
in a large volume of cases the Congress, at the Board's request, rewrote 
the statute to insert specific exceptions. 

48 
1/8/70 
-15-
At the conclusion of the discussion the staff recommendation 
was approved, Governor Mitchell dissenting. A copy of the letter sent 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to this action is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
Assessment for Board expenses. In a memorandum dated January 7, 
1970, the Office of the Controller recommended that an assessment of 
.00774 per cent of the total paid-in capital and surplus of the Federal 
Reserve Banks as of December 31, 1969, be levied upon the Banks to meet 
the estimated expenses of the Board for the first half of 1970. 
Such 
an assessment would produce $10,359,200. 
The levying of the recommended assessment was approved 
... • V • S
 1 
C . •• ItlJ 
•* i i. ..i 
C 
. j '.. > 
.' ' . • "
 :.V. . . 
• I 
- . • 
unanimously. 
Emergency credit. At its meeting on December 24, 1969, the 
Board adopted principles for emergency extensions of credit through the 
first quarter of 1970 to mutual savings banks and other banks and savings 
and loan associations that are members of neither the Federal Reserve 
nor the Federal Home Loan Bank Systems. In order to coordinate measures 
that might be taken by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the Treasury, 
and the Federal Reserve toward meeting any emergency needs of the 
insured savings and loan industry, interagency discussion of that 
aspect of the problem had continued. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated January 8, 
1970, from the Division of Research and Statistics accompanied by a 

49 
1/8/70 
-15-
memorandum of proposed understandings reached at a meeting attended by 
representatives of the Board, the Home Loan Bank Board, the Treasury, 
and the Bureau of the Budget. 
It was understood that the plan now 
proposed was acceptable to the Home Loan Bank Board and that the con-
currence of the Treasury and the Bureau of the Budget could be expected. 
Key elements of the plan were as follows: 
(1) The Treasury, with the concurrence of the Bureau 
of the Budget, would authorize the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board to draw up to $1 billion on its direct borrowing line 
at the Treasury as soon as Home Loan Bank liquidity dropped 
to $500 million. 
(2) The Federal Reserve Banks would make conduit loans 
to the Federal Home Loan Banks to cover advances to individ-
ual savings and loan associations when the inability of those 
associations to meet share capital withdrawals appeared to 
threaten a run that might have more general spillover effects 
on the financial system. 
Such extensions would generally be 
limited to associations at which advances from the Federal 
Home Loan Banks were approaching and seemed likely to exceed 
50 per cent of their savings capital. Activation of the 
conduit arrangement in specific cases would require advance 
approval of both the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the 
Federal Reserve. 
Resulting loans to the Home Loan Banks would 
be secured by U.S. Government or Federal agency obligations 
pledged by individual associations to the Federal Home Loan 
Bank and then repledged to the Federal Reserve. 
(3) The Federal Home Loan Bank Board would take 
responsibility for providing temporary financing to nonmember 
savings and loan associations where such associations had 
exhausted their own sources of liquidity, and inability to 
cover savings withdrawals might have spillover effects on 
the financial system. 
The role of the Federal Reserve in this proposed plan was 
somewhat different from that contemplated earlier. 
In effect, the 

50 
1/8/70 
-15-
Federal Reserve would be given an advance listing of individual 
associations at which there was some prospect that advances from the 
Home Loan Banks might exceed 50 per cent of share capital. As specific 
associations reached that point, a Federal Reserve conduit loan would 
be granted to the appropriate Home Loan Bank provided that the Bank 
and the related Reserve Bank agreed that failure of the association 
to meet future savings withdrawals might precipitate a more general 
liquidity crisis among other financial institutions. This could mean 
that some Federal Reserve credit would be supplied for emergency pur-
poses even before the Home Loan Banks exhausted their own liquid assets 
or drew on their direct borrowing line at the Treasury. 
It was diffi-
cult to determine in advance whether the amount of such credit would 
be significant, but the Home Loan Bank Board believed it unlikely that 
any sizable number of associations would exceed the 50 per cent line. 
The proposal submitted earlier by the Board's staff had 
contemplated that Federal Reserve assistance would be provided only 
after Home Loan Bank liquidity had been largely exhausted and the 
direct borrowing line at the Treasury (recently increased by Congress 
to $4 billion) had been substantially drawn down. The Bureau of the 
Budget had been reluctant to agree because budget constraints made it 
highly sensitive to special borrowing of any size that would raise 
questions about the possibility of full repayment before the end of 
the fiscal year. The Home Loan Bank Board had been reluctant to breach 

51 
1/8/70 
-15-
its long-standing 50 per cent rule and the supervisory discipline it 
provided. 
After staff comments describing the sources of possible problems 
for the Home Loan Bank System, Governor Robertson expressed reservations 
about the revised proposal. 
It seemed to him that the plan would make 
possible a budgetary statistical image at the expense of the Federal 
Reserve, and he saw no reason to back away from the principle that the 
Federal Reserve should be a true lender of last resort--when other 
sources of help were exhausted or nearly so. 
Governor Maisel noted that for many years the Home Loan Bank 
Board had specified that when an association had Home Loan Bank advances 
equal to 50 per cent of its share capital, it needed help. That rule 
had been found administratively sound, and he doubted that the Federal 
Reserve should ask to have it changed. Also, he thought it appropriate 
to extend any necessary loans through the regional Home Loan Banks. 
Governor Brimmer observed that Congress had provided a credit 
line of $4 billion, and said he did not regard it as proper for the 
Federal Reserve to enable the Home Loan Banks to avoid using more than 
$1 billion of that line. When Congress provided the credit line as a 
source of liquidity, it must have been aware of the statistical argu-
ment the Bureau of the Budget now advanced. Under the arrangements 
now proposed, it appeared that some associations, if they reached the 
50 per cent mark, might receive emergency Federal Reserve assistance 

1/8/70 
-13-
before the Home Loan Bank System had drawn down its Treasury credit 
line even as much as $1 billion. He had some concern also regarding 
the usefulness of the 50 per cent rule. 
Governor Maisel said he believed that the potential problems 
centered around no more than 50 to 100 institutions. 
He thought it 
would be defensible, if the Board desired, to put a limit of $100 million 
or $200 million on emergency credit to demonstrate that no question of 
general liquidity was involved. A more critical question was whether 
the Board wanted to make the Home Loan Bank Board revise its 50 per cent 
rule. There had to be some cut-off, and the 50 per cent rule seemed to 
provide a logical one. However, he thought it was important for the 
Board to define its role as a lender of last resort according to 
whether or not it was willing to enter the picture before the Treasury 
line of credit had been substantially used. 
Governor Sherrill agreed with Governor Maisel that the 50 per 
cent rule was logical. He observed that the restrictions proposed to 
be placed upon an institution that used emergency credit provided a 
time limit for it to adjust its affairs, which seemed to be a reason-
able discipline to exact for the privilege of emergency assistance. 
There ensued further discussion of the mechanics of the proposed 
plan, including how it would be determined whether failure of a partic-
ular institution would have detrimental consequences for other financial 
institutions in the area. 

53 
1/8/70 
-15-
Governor Robertson then expressed the view that the Federal 
Reserve should not participate in any negotiation regarding the extent 
to which the Home Loan Bank System should use its privilege of borrow-
ing from the Treasury. 
He suggested that the staff draw up a document 
containing only procedures for conduit advances by the Federal Reserve 
to the Home Loan Banks upon certification that particular institutions 
were in need of help and that their failure would have repercussions 
on the financial community. 
In response to his inquiry whether the 
staff regarded it feasible to operate within such a framework, Mr. Partee 
suggested that it would be well also to include a provision under which 
the Home Loan Bank System would take responsibility for providing any 
necessary assistance to nonmember savings and loan associations. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the proposed procedures 
were well thought through. He believed it would be too restrictive to 
insist that the Home Loan Bank System substantially exhaust its credit 
line with the Treasury before the Federal Reserve would provide any 
assistance. 
Governor Brimmer expressed concurrence with the suggestion that 
the Federal Reserve commitment be limited to agreement on the procedures 
for making conduit loans. He regarded the remainder of the memorandum 
of understanding as having political overtones, and thought the Federal 
Reserve should not become involved in those issues. 

51 
1/8/70 
-15-
Governor Mitchell commented that those issues seemed germane 
to the problem; although the $1 billion limitation set for access to 
the Treasury line of credit might not be to the liking of the Federal 
Reserve, it would be better to have it in the record. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the Board note those issues with 
the comment that they were primarily a matter for agreement among the 
other agencies. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
additional documentation would be developed in the light of the views 
expressed, and that the matter would be discussed with the Presidents 
of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
(Secretary's Note: Although comments were subsequently obtained 
from the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents, developments in the savings 
and loan industry did not reach the crisis proportions that had been 
feared. Therefore, since there appeared to be no immediate need to 
activate arrangements for emergency credit, the question of the terms 
for extending such credit was not returned to the Board for action.) 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Questions relating to Regulations D and Q. Today's agenda 
called for discussion of the question whether the Board should again 
postpone the time when member banks would be required to conform to 
the October 1969 determination that obligations issued by subsidiaries 

55 
1/8/70 
-15-
are, under the present provisions of both Regulation D (Reserves of 
Member Banks) and Regulation Q (Interest on Deposits) in the same status 
as obligations issued directly by the bank. In a memorandum dated 
January 7, 1970, the Legal Division discussed the question of such 
postponement, as well as possible courses of action with respect to 
commercial paper of bank affiliates, regarding which new statutory 
authority had been granted to the Board in December 1969. 
Discussion at this meeting included comments on the questions 
relating to commercial paper of subsidiaries and affiliates only as 
incidental to the broader question of the need for revision of the 
structure of interest rate ceilings, particularly those applicable to 
certificates of deposit. Mr. Partee had commented on this question in 
a memorandum of January 6, 1970, which had been accompanied by schedules 
of possible revisions of Regulation Q ceiling rates. Although the 
members of the Board expressed tentative views, generally in favor of 
some action on the ceiling rates, the discussion was preliminary, 
especially in view of the expectation of a meeting within the next 
few days with the directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the staff was requested to 
prepare additional analytical material, particularly with respect to 
the alternative of approaching the problem of commercial paper through 
Regulation D. 

1/8/70 
-13-
Luncheon for wives of agency heads. The Board approved 
unanimously an expenditure of approximately $170 for a luncheon to 
be given on January 14, 1970, for a group of the wives of heads of 
independent agencies of the Federal Government. 
PEFCO. Governor Brimmer noted that the Bankers Association 
for Foreign Trade had authorized formation of a new private company, 
to be known as the Private Export Finance Corporation, to finance 
exports of jet aircraft and other items. It was understood that about 
40 banks would contribute to the initial capital of the new organiza-
tion, and that they would seek to organize an Edge corporation as a 
vehicle for their participation. 
Currency depot in Puerto Rico. Governor Brimmer informed the 
Board that the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta had completed arrange-
ments for taking over the operation of the currency depot in San Juan, 
Puerto Rico, having signed an agreement with First National City Bank 
of New York to assume the cost of operating the facility. 
The Board then went into executive session. 
Officer salaries. The Board approved the payment of salary to 
members of its officer staff at the annual rates indicated in the 
following listing, effective January 1, 1970: 
Board Members' Offices 
Salary 
Robert L. Cardon 
$33,000 
Joseph R. Coyne 
23,500 

57 
1/8/70 
-15-
Office of the Secretary 
Salary 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
$23,500 
Legal Division 
David B. Hexter 
35,500 
Thomas J. O'Connell 
35,000 
Robert F. Sanders 
26,500 
Research and Statistics 
Stanley J. Sigel 
30,000 
Tynan Smith 
30,000 
International Finance 
Ralph C. Wood 
29,000 
Robert F. Gemmill 
29,000 
Reed J. Irvine 
29,000 
Samuel Pizer 
29,000 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
John N. Kiley, Jr. 
29,000 
James A. Mcintosh 
24,500 
Supervision and Regulation 
Frederic Solomon 
35,500 
Brenton C. Leavitt 
32,000 
Janet 0. Hart 
24,500 
John N. Lyon 
24,500 
Thomas A. Sidman 
24,000 
Personnel Administration 
John J. Hart 
24,500 
Administrative Services 
John D. Smith 
22,500 
Office of the Controller 
John Kakalec 
29,000 
Harry J. Halley 
27,000 
Data Processing 
Jerold E. Slocum 
31,500 
John P. Singleton 
29,000 
Glenn L. Cummins 
24,000 
Richard S. Watt 
24,000 

58 
1/8/70 
-15-
Staff appointments. The Board approved the promotion of 
Murray S. Wernick from Associate Adviser to Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics, effective January 1, 1970, with annual salary 
at the rate of $30,000. 
The Board approved the promotion of Bernard Shull from Assistant 
Adviser to Associate Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, effec-
tive January 1, 1970, with annual salary at the rate of $28,500. 
The Board approved the appointment of James L. Pierce, presently 
Chief, Special Studies Section, Division of Research and Statistics, as 
Assistant Adviser in that Division (while continuing also as Chief of 
the Special Studies Section), effective January 1, 1970, with annual 
salary at the rate of $27,500. 
The Board approved the appointment of Stephen P. Taylor, presently 
Chief, Flow of Funds and Savings Section, Division of Research and 
Statistics, as Assistant Adviser in that Division (while continuing also 
as Chief of the Flow of Funds and Savings Section), effective January 1, 
1970, with annual salary at the rate of $28,000. 
The Board approved the appointment of Donald E. Anderson, 
presently Project Representative, as Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services, effective January 1, 1970, with annual salary 
at the rate of $22,500. 
The Board approved the appointment of Gordon B. Grimwood, 
presently Assistant to the Director, Division of International Finance, 

59 
1/8/70 
-16-
as Defense Planning Coordinator and Assistant Secretary, Office of the 
Secretary, effective January 1, 1970, with annual salary at the rate 
of $28,000. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
^bVcow:.. 
of the 
Item No 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 / 8 / 7 0 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
-V^fffF ffr-^'/F' 
SW-A.' I •>">>' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C n R S E S P L 
• 
T O 
T H E 
B O A W D 
' . M l 
January 8 1970 
Org an i za t io n C omm i l: t e e, 
The Bank on Longboat Key, 
- 
, . 
Longboat Key, Florida 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application made on behalf of The Bank on Longboat 
Key, Longboat Key, Florida, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Atlanta, effective if and when the. bank opens for business under 
appropriate State authorization, subject t"J the numbered conditions 
hereinafter s::t fortlu 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of its 
depositors, and except with the permission of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such bank 
shall not cause or permit any change to be made in the 
general character of its business or in the scope of the 
corporate powers exercised by it at the time of admission 
to membership. 
?.. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of v 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other cor-
porate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $300,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$135,000. 
In connection v;ith the foregoing conditions of membership 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding members hip of S tate banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208. 
thereof, A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

The Bunk on Longboat Key 
61 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter Is made, the bank should advice the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it: may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
board of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to 
Commence Business has been issued. The board of directors should 
also adoot} at the same time, a resolution ratifying the action which 
has been taker in the bank's behalf in making application for membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. A certified copy of each resolution, 
together with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, slould be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta. Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for 
an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the 
deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock i„o the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. 
T<Jhen the Board is advised 
that all of thrt requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank r->tock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bant a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve Syscem. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and you:.- relations with the 
Reserve dank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will 
be glad to assist you in establishing your relationships with the 
Federal Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives 
of your bank means for making the services of the System most useful 
to you„ 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
1/8/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I / L 
C • R R E S P II N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 9, 1970. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assi stanl: Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the r5udget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of November 6, 1969 
for the Board's views on a draft bill that proposes changing the 
Government's fiscal year from July 1 through June 30 to January 1 
through December 31. Our comments on the specific points that 
you have raised are as follows: 
1. The Board's performance of its responsibilities 
would not be affected materially by enactment of the 
draft bill. Accordingly, the Board has no comments to 
offer on the draft bill, nor preferences among the 
alternative proposals contained therein, since the 
Federal Reserve System would not be materially affected 
by changes that would ensue. 
2. 
No revisions of law relating to the Federal Reserve 
System would be required if the draft bill were enacted. 
3. 
The Board has no comments to offer on the proposal that 
' Federal grants on a calendar year basis be made avail-
able to the States for use during their fiscal years 
which begin next after the new Federal fiscal year. 
Very truly yours 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 

63 
B D A R D 
OF G D V E ' . R N D R S . 
OF 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
1/8/70 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C D R R t S P O U O C N C 
T O 
T H E . 
D O A H D 
January 12, 1970 
Mr. Hugh ,T. Helmer, Chairman, 
Conference of First Vice Presidents 
of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, ..1 lino is . 60690 
Dear Hugh 
The B-ard of Governors, understanding that the Conference 
First '.'ice Presidents would find it convenient to hold "the Spring 
r:-Gc t ing o " the Conf erence in Washingtor., cor*. i a 11 y i.nvi tcs the 
Conference to n:et here on Tuesday, April 21. . Vie V7ill he in touch 
v;rth the Secret .ry of the. Conference to assir.o that appropriate 
arrangemei ts an: made for meeting rooms and other accommodations, 
including lunch on. 
We wo-'ld also like to take advantage of the presence of the 
First: Vice. Presidents in Washington to enabL members of the Board 
to become better acquainted personally with i ambers of the Conference 
^he Board accor ingly would like to arrange ' dinner for the First 
Vice Presidents at a local hotel on the evei.; r.g of Monday, April 2C, 
v?ith the understanding that the details of tie arrangements will be 
advised later if the First Vice Presidents are in position to accept 
such an invitation. 
With best regards, 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) Bob 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

64 
Item No. 4 
1/8/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
JEFFERSON BANCORP, INC., 
Miami Beach, Florida, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of Jefferson 
National Bank of Miami Beach, Miami 
Beach, Florida, and Jefferson 
National Bank at Sunny Isles, Sunny 
Isles, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Jefferson Bancorp, Inc., 
Miami Beach, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of action 
^hereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Jefferson 
National Bank of Miami Beach, Miami Beach, Florida, and Jefferson 
National Bank at Sunfttf Isles, Sunny Isles, Florida. 

As Requited by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the ComptrSller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
| 
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller indicated 
that he had no objection to-approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 25, 1969 (34 Federal Register 12304), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
view s -with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington D. C., this 3th day of January, 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

66 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
JEFFERSON BANCORP, INC., MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Jefferson Bancoro, Inc., Miami Ber.ch, Florida ("Applicant11), 
has filed v?ith the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Banlc 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Jefferson National Bank of 
Miami Beach, Miami Beach, Florida ("Miami Beach Bank"); and Jefferson 
National Bank at Sunny Isles, Sunny Isles, Florida ("Sunny Isles Bank"). 
Viev;s and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
requested his vievjs and recommendation. The Comptroller indicated 
that, based on Applicant's representations, his office had no objection 
to the proposal. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 

67 
-2* 
I 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the btisihess of bahking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into considera-
tion the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - There are 14 
bank holding companies in the State of Florida, which, in the aggregate, 
bold deposits of $4.8 billion,-^ representing 40.7 per cent of the 
State's total deposits. Upon acquisition of Miami Beach Bank ($36 
million deposits) and Sunny Isles Bank ($8 million deposits), Applicant 
would rank fourteenth in size among 15 bank holding companies in the 
State. The consummation of Applicant's proposal would increase the 
Percentage of banking deposits held by bank holding companies in Florida 
by 
less than .4 per cent and would not significantly affect State-wide 
banking concentration. 
J/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, unless otherwise noted, and 
are adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
aPproved by the Board to date. 

68 
-3-
Miami Beach Bank commenced its operations in 1S64, and Sunny 
Isles Bank opened in 1965. Miami Beach Bank is situated about eight 
miles south of the Sunny Isles Bank. Both banks are located in Dade 
County, but serve separate portions of the Miami Beach area. There are 
no other banks located within the area served by either; both, however, 
compete with banks located just outside the areas which they serve. 
Four 
banks, with deposits ranging from $25 million to $149 million, are located 
within a radius of about three miles from Miami Beach Bank, and six banks, 
with deposits of $12 to $34 million, are located at distances of from 
two to seven miles from Sunny Isles Bank. 
The two subject banks control 1.6 per cent of the $2.0 billion 
deposits held by 63 banks in the county. Six bank holding companies 
control 18 of these banks, and account, in the aggregate, for 52 per cent 
°f the county's total deposits. The increase in concentration which 
would result from consummation of /-pplicant's proposal would not be 
significant in any case. 
The two subject banks have been affiliated as a result of 
common individual ownership since July 1968. Even in the absence of such 
affiliation, it does not appear that significant competition would exist 
between the two banks, considering the difference in their sizes, the 
distance between their offices, and the number and size of intervening 
banks. In the light of the prohibition of branching under Florida law, 
it appears that these same factors would likewise limit future competition 
between the two banks. 

69 
-4-
On the basis of the foregoing,, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States, 
and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend 
to create a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant, a newly organized Florida corporation, has no financial or 
°perating history. Its projected financial condition and management 
2ppear satisfactory, and its prospects, which would be dependent upon 
those of the two banks it proposes to acquire, also appear satisfactory. 
The Miami Beach Bank is considered to be in a generally satis-
factory financial condition, and to have capable management. The bank 
experiencing satisfactory growth, and its prospects are considered 
favorable. 
The financial condition of the Sunny Isles Bank is satisfactory 
and its management, as supplemented by the Miami Beach Bank, is also 
considered satisfactory. The bank has experienc©d moderate growth, and 
i t s prospects appear favorable. 
On the basis of the foregoing, considerations relating to the 
inking factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
Service area of the Miami Beach Bank includes residential and commercial 
sections with an estimated population of 25,000. The population fluctuates 

70 
with the tourist seasbn, but the construction of apartment accommodations 
' 
• 
. . . . . . 
has brought 
permanent residents to the area. Miami Beach Bank and the 
competing banks which are located near its service area offer a wide 
range of banking services, and consummation of this proposal would not 
result in a change in the services now being offered. 
The area served by the Cunny Isles Bank is a tourist area which 
has a population of 3,000 permanent residents; its commercial establish-
rcents consist mainly of motel and hotel accommodations. The banking 
1 
t 
needs of the area's residents and businesses appear to be adequately 
served by the Cunny Isles Bank and the competing banks located near the 
-
service area. There are proposals for construction in the area which 
I 
m ay attract more permanent and semi-permanent residents. 
Although the banking needs of the relevant areas appear to be 
adequately served, the formation of the holding company would permit 
Sweater cooperation between the two proposed subsidiary banks, x;hich 
would serve to facilitate expansion of their lending activities, and 
Vjhich 
could result in more efficient operations and services to the ex-
panding communities which they serve. The considerations relating to the 
banking factors are consistent with approval of the application, and lend 
some weight in support thereof. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
• 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
action would be in the public interest and that the application should 
b e approved. 
January 8, 1970. 

71 
i 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
1/8/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P S3 N C E N C I 
T C 
T H E B O A R D 
January 9, 1970 
Mr. Ward J. Larson, Senior Vice 
President, and General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
230 South LaSal3.a Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. I arson; 
This refers to your letters of September 15 , 3.969 and 
November 21, 1969 concerning whether Mr. Richard T. Cragg, a 
director cf the Wilmette State Bank, Wilmette, Illinois, would be 
eligible under section 8 of the Clayton Act and the Board's Regulation L 
to serve also as a director of the Merchandise National Bank of Chics.go, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
It is suggested that the Board determine that Wilmette 
and Chicago are not contiguous or adjacent and that accordingly the 
aforementioned service would be within the exemption provided by 
section 8(5) of the Act. 
It appears that Wilmette, Illinois, is a northern suburb of. 
Chicago, separated from it only by the .intervening suburb of Evans ton; 
the distance between the two being a little over three miles. 
Wilmette 
and Chicago are interconnected by thoroughfares and the intervening area 
is urban in character. 
It further appears that Wilmette and Chicago are 
located, in the words of footnote 8 to Regulation L, "in such close 
proximity and are so readily accessible to each other as to be in practical-, 
effect a single city . . . " 
The bank submitted information apparently designed to demonstrate 
that the two banks involved do not compete with each other. While the 
Board has previously stated, Interpretations 
4875, that it would take 
into consideration the existence of any "substantial conflict of competitive 
interest between the banks of one city, town or village and the banks of 
the other", the Board has stated that it would do so only where there is 
doubt as to whether the municipalities are "adjacent". This is because 
the 1935 amendments to the Clayton Act were designed to institute specific 

b o a r d 
d f 
g o v e r n o r s 
o f t h e 
f e d e r a l 
r e s e r v e 
s y s t e m 
72 
Mr. Ward J. Larson 
standards of uniform and predictable application. 
In the instant case 
there appears r.o be no doubt that the communities are within the test: 
set forth in the footnote to Regulation L. 
The Board has therefore conci.uded that the exceotion in 
section 8(5) of the Clayton Ac.t does not apply and that, in the 
absence of any other available exception, the: proposed interlocking 
service vould be prohibited by the Act. 
It will be appreciated if yon will convey the views expressed 
herein to Mr. George B. Everitt of Merchandise National Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
