MINUTES 
* • .,. 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 21, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 21, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mrs. Byrn, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
The usual weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for today's review have 
been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed legislative matters pending before 
the Congress that were of interest to the Federal Reserve. 
Export financing. Governor Brimmer reported on a meeting 
yesterday with a group of bankers representing the Export Expansion 
Committee of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce with regard to their current 
survey dealing with export financing. The report, which had not yet 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

8/21/70 
-2-
been released, would recommend in one section, according to present 
plans, that the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program be scrapped 
or at least relaxed to exclude export credits from the guidelines ceil-
ings or, at the minimum, provide greater leeway. The report would also 
recommend that a discount facility for exporters be established, pref-
erably with access to Federal Reserve funds. The committee had asked 
Governor Brimmer whether he felt that any of those recommendations would 
be acceptable. He had advised the group that in his opinion the Board's 
position on the discount facility was unequivocal. Neither did he see 
a basis from the balance of payments standpoint for eliminating or relax-
ing the VFCR guidelines at this time. The tentative report was being 
studied further by the staff. 
Chairman Burns said that he had read a preliminary draft of the 
Chamber of Commerce report and found it lacking in quality. However, 
pressures were building up and positions were being taken. He suggested 
that the Federal Reserve consider gathering its own data to determine 
whether exports were actually being impeded to any appreciable degree 
by the VFCR Program, since studies of that question by others had been 
either inconclusive or of inferior quality. 
Governor Brimmer referred tovarious studies that had been made, 
including his own meetings with bankers around the country in 1969. He 
believed many bankers were more interested in expanded lending abroad 
than in export financing and noted that distinctions between the two 
were difficult to make. 

I 1 « >*~J 
0 
8/21/70 
-3-
Chairman Burns then commented that the Board must assure itself 
and others that exports were not being impeded significantly. 
If that 
would require permitting more lending abroad, he would be inclined to 
consider running that risk. 
After further discussion along these lines, Chairman Burns sug-
gested that the Board might conduct a joint study of the export financing 
problem with the Commerce Department. Some tentative reservations were 
expressed, but Mr. Solomon was asked to consider that possibility, among 
others, and make a recommendation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
