Minutes for March 29, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1206 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, March 29, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Miss Hart, and Mrs. Heller, 
Senior Attorneys, Legal Division 
Messrs. Lyon, Supervisory Review Examiner, and 
Poundstone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Millea, Assistant to the Controller, Office 
of the Controller 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made available 
t o the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers indicated. 

3/29/67 
-2-
Letters to Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, approving the 
establishment of branches (1) on Oleander 
Drive, Wilmington, and (2) in the Rowan Mall 
Shopping Center, Salisbury. 
Letter to Litchfield Bank and Trust Company, 
Litchfield, Illinois, approving an investment 
in bank premises. 
Letter to Carbon Emery Bank, Price, Utah, 
waiving the requirement of six months' 
notice of withdrawal from membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to American National Bank, Birmingham, 
Alabama, granting its request for permission 
to maintain reduced reserves. 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, 
New York, granting an extension of time to 
establish a branch in Seoul, Korea. 
Letter to Marine Midland International Corpora-
tion, New York, granting consent to the acqui-
sition of additional shares of Union Auxiliaire 
de Financement, Paris, France. 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, 
New York, granting consent to the acquisition 
by 
that bank (rather than International Banking 
Corporation) of shares of a banking corporation 
to be organized in Casablanca under the laws of 
Morocco. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
city discussing the status of the Joe W. Ingram 
Trust as a bank holding company under the pro-
visions of the Bank Holding Company Act, as 
tended in 1966, and extending the time for 
registration by the Trust as a bank holding 
company. 
1 2.07 
Item No. 
1-2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 

1241 
3/29/67 
-6-
Item No. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget regarding 
10 
S. 714, a bill to amend section 22(g) of the 
Federal Reserve Act, relating to loans by 
member banks to their executive officers, 
and also to amend the Federal Credit Union 
Act. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget regarding 
11 
a draft bill of the Treasury Department that 
would extend on a standby basis the authority 
for antitrust exemption for voluntary joint 
action to safeguard the U.S. balance of pay-
ments position. 
In connection with Item No. 8, Mr. Dahl recalled that last fall 
the Board authorized First National City Bank to establish a branch in 
Casablanca. However, the Ministry of Finance of Morocco informed First 
National City Bank that its entry into that country must be accomplished 
by 
establishment of a Moroccan corporation. This requirement First 
National City Bank first proposed to meet through acquisition of stock 
of a Moroccan corporation by International Banking Corporation, a wholly-
owned agreement corporation. Now, however, since section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act and the revised Regulation M (Foreign Activities of 
National Banks) permitted acquisition by a national bank of a wholly-owned 
foreign banking subsidiary, First National City Bank preferred to follow 
this procedure and acquire stock in a Moroccan banking corporation in 
xts own name. This was the first such application to come before the 
Board under the revised Regulation M. 
Mr. Dahl observed that there were still unresolved problems in 
c°nnection with coordination of the revised Regulation M and Regulation K 

1209 
3/29/67 
-4-
(Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Fed-
eral Reserve Act). Pending further staff study and in order that 
First National City Bank might proceed with its plans in Morocco, it 
was proposed that permission to acquire stock in the Moroccan banking 
corporation be granted with the understanding that the foreign subsid-
iary would restrict its activities to those permissible to a national 
bank or to a foreign branch of a national bank under the provisions 
of Regulation M. Although this provision would in effect be more 
restrictive than if stock were acquired indirectly through Inter-
national Banking Corporation under the provisions of Regulation K, 
it would not appear to work to the applicant's disadvantage since 
First National City's original request had been for the establishment 
°f a branch. It was the belief of the Legal and Examinations Divisions 
that the legislative intent was to permit U.S. banks to do directly 
what they were allowed to do indirectly through Edge or agreement 
corporations. But it would take additional study on the part of the 
staff to determine all of the problems and recommend to the Board how 
they might be resolved. In the meantime no precedent would have been 
established under the revised Regulation M through proceeding in the 
wanner proposed on the First National City Bank application. 
Question was raised whether First National City Bank should be 
wade aware of the fact that the condition to which Mr. Dahl had referred 
Was being imposed subject to review. On this point, Mr. Shay advised 

1.210 
3/29/67 
-5-
that he had discussed the application with the bank's counsel and felt 
there was a sufficient understanding of the circumstances on the latter1s 
part. 
In connection with Item No. 11, Governor Robertson indicated 
that he had told the Secretary of the Treasury that he saw no need for 
the standby authority and would not want to espouse it. However, since 
the Treasury had decided to request extension of the authority, he 
thought it appropriate to send to the Budget Bureau a letter phrased 
in terms of "no objection." 
Branch application. At the meeting on March 20, 1967, action 
on the application of The Detroit Bank and Trust Company, Detroit, 
Michigan, to establish a branch in Harrison Township, Macomb County, 
was deferred pending receipt of information on the nature of allegations 
in a suit filed by St. Clair Shores National Bank, St. Clair Shores, 
Michigan, to prevent the establishment of the proposed branch. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 28, 1967, 
from the Division of Examinations and the Legal Division relating to the 
Suit. Aside from the question of need for the branch, the principal 
argument appeared to be that the establishment of the branch would vio-
late State law since the location was not within a village, as such term 
is used in the Michigan Financial Institutions Act. In addition, even 
if it was in an unincorporated village, it was located within the same 
unincorporated village as a branch of the national bank, again in viola-
tion of State law. Both points appeared to require interpretation, and 

1241 
3/29/67 
-6-
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago suggested that the application be 
held in abeyance pending court action on the case. The Board's staff 
concurred. 
Unanimous approval was given to the Reserve Bank and staff 
recommendation. 
Travel by field examining staff. The problem of continual 
travel status had for some time been a major obstacle in recruiting 
and maintaining staff for the field examining force of the Division 
of Examinations. After discussion of the problem on March 9, 1967, 
it was understood that a proposal that would allow the members of the 
field staff to make more trips home during the year would be considered 
in consultation with the field force. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 28, 
1967, from the Division of Examinations, the Division of Personnel 
Administration, and the Office of the Controller recommending that the 
Board's Travel Regulations be amended to provide in essence, subject 
to certain specified conditions, that members of the field examining 
staff be allowed actual necessary transportation expenses, as currently 
Provided for other travel, to their places of residence a maximum of 24 
times during each year, with a limit of 6 trips per quarter except for 
Personal emergencies. The maximum would be in addition to two vacation 
breaks and periods of annual leave for 5 or more days. Attached to the 
Memorandum was a draft amendment. 

1241 
3/29/67 
-6-
Mr. Solomon commented that the results of the discussion of the 
proposal with the field force were reflected in the draft of amendment. 
It was the consensus that the program would be helpful in strengthening 
the morale of the staff and in alleviating an obstacle to recruitment. 
The proposed amendment was submitted with the recommendation that edi-
torial changes be authorized with a view to insuring nontaxability of 
the reimbursement for transportation expenses. 
Governor Shepardson observed that the last point made by Mr. 
Solomon was well taken. He also noted that it was necessary to cast 
the language in such a way that the amount of home travel would be 
governed by the requirements of the examination program. 
General approval of the proposal on the part of the Board was 
indicated. In responding to questions, Mr. Solomon brought out that 
restrictions embodied in the program had been imposed with a view to 
guarding against physical fatigue on the part of the staff (particularly 
in the case of travel by automobile), limiting the extent of travel over 
*-°ng distances, and assuring availability of personnel to meet the con-
tinuing needs of the examination program. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the proposal for amendment 
the Board's Travel Regulations, effective immediately, subject to 
the working out of editorial changes for the purpose that had been men-
tioned by Mr. Solomon and Governor Shepardson. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1241 
3/29/67 
-6-
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Office of the Controller dated March 28, 1967, 
recommending that the present rate of reimbursement of 7.5 cents per 
mile for the use of privately-owned automobiles by the field examining 
staff of the Division of Examinations be continued. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
March 22, 1967, recommending the establishment of a clerk-page position 
in the Administration Section of that Division. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Marguerite L. Fountain as Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Rita K. Hill as Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective the date of entrance upon 
duty. 

1 2 1 4 . 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
3/29/67 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE HOARD 
March 29, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Wachovia Bank and Trust 
Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Wachovia Bank and 
Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, of a' 
branch on Oleander Drive adjacent to the Azalea-Hanover 
Shopping Center, Wilmington, New Hanover County, North 
Carolina, provided the branch is established within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1215. 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
3/29/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
• F T H E 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TQ THE BOARD 
March 29, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Wachovia Bank and Trust 
Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Wachovia Bank and 
Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, of a 
branch in the Rowan Mall Shopping Center on East Innes 
Street at the intersection of Interstate 85, Salisbury, 
Rowan County, North Carolina, provided the branch is 
established within one year from the date of this letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

1216. 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
3/29/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TD TH E BOARD 
March 29, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Litchfield Bank and 
Trust Company, 
Litchfield, Illinois. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves, under the provisions of Section 24A of the Federal 
Reserve Act, an investment in bank premises by Litchfield Bank 
and Trust Company, Litchfield, Illinois, of $140,838 for the 
construction of new banking quarters. This amount does not 
include the book value ($9,815.54) of the present banking 
Premises or the carrying value ($33,000) of the parcel of 
land on which the new bank building is to be erected. 
It is the Board's understanding that present banking 
Premises are to be sold with the proceeds used to reduce the 
carrying value of bank premises. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
• F T H E 
3/29/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 29, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Carbon Emery Bank, 
Price, Utah. 
Gentlemen: 
The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco has forwarded 
to the Board of Governors your letter dated March 6, 1967, 
together with the accompanying resolution dated February 14, 1967, 
^gnifying your intention to withdraw from membership in the 
ederal Reserve System and requesting waiver of the six months' 
^otice of such withdrawal. 
The Board of Governors waives the requirement of six 
^°nths' notice of withdrawal. Under the provisions of Section 
10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your institution may accora-
PHsh termination of its membership at any time within eight 
m°nths from the date that notice of intention to withdraw from 
Membership was given. Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank 
ot San Francisco of the Federal Reserve stock issued to your 
institution, such stock will be cancelled and appropriate refund 
be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
Ceturned to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1218 
B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 5 
• F T H E 
3/29/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 29, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
American National Bank, 
2101 First Avenue North, 
Birmingham, Alabama. 
35203 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, the Board of Governors, acting 
under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
grants permission to the American National Bank, Birmingham, 
Alabama, to maintain the same reserves against deposits as are 
required to be maintained by member banks not in a reserve city, 
effective with the first biweekly reserve computation period 
beginning after the date of this letter. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such per-
mission is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 

1219 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 6 
OF THE 
3/29/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
t - •'' 
p-fi'/x1 
AUDRtSS >JM.l:lAL 1: • 1 W «f. 'i t» IM N (J F N r. 11 
.fTCv'- 
' 
IU THE UOARO 
KV:^'\ • 
March 25, 1967. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 10, 1967, 
the Board of Governors extends to April 1, 1968, the 
time within which your bank may establish a branch in 
the City of Seoul, Republic of Korea, as authorized by 
the Board's letter of March 14, 1966. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary,, 

1220 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
3/29/67 
ADDRESS 
L") • nCIAL CORRESPONDENCE! 
TO THE HOARD 
March 29, 1967. 
Marine Midland International Corporation, 
120 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 27, 1966, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to 
purchase and hold up to 50 per cent of the capital stock of 
Union Auxiliaire de Financement, Paris, France, at a total in-
vestment of approximately US$500,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined with other 
foreign loans and investments of your Corporation and Marine 
Midland Trust Company of Western New York, will not cause the 
total of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines 
established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
8* 

1221 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N • R 5 
I t e m N o > g 
• FTHE 
3/29/67* 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS fIFHCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 29, 1967. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 27, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for First National City 
Bank ("FNCB"), New York, New York, rather than International Banking 
Corporation, New York, to purchase and hold all the shares of a 
banking corporation to be organized under the laws of the Kingdom 
of Morocco, tentatively to be known as "First National City Bank 
(Magreb)" ("Magreb"), to be located in Casablanca, Morocco, at a 
cost of approximately US$400,000, provided such shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Magreb by FNCB is granted subject to the applicable 
provisions of Section 25 and Regulation M and the condition that 
FNCB shall not hold any shares of stock in Magreb if Magreb at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
national bank or to a foreign branch of a national bank under 
the provisions of Regulation M. 
Regulation M provides that, when required by the Board 
of Governors, FNCB will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Magreb as it may require from time to time. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign 
loans and investments of your bank, International Banking Corpora-
tion and First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, will 
not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the 
guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
ML RE 

B O A R D 
Q F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1222 
First National City Bank 
-2-
effort now in effect and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
It is understood that the Board of Governors will be 
furnished with copies of the Articles of Association and By-Laws 
of Magreb upon organization. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

19 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m No> g 
y-ovuw-. 
D F T H E 
3/29/67* 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
0 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
'rr:r r • 
I w i 1 * 
ADDRESS OfFICIAL C O m S P r j N O E N C E 
' V , 
^ x S ^ ^ ^ v / . • 
TO THE BDARD 
March 29, 1967 
Mr. George D. Royer, Jr., 
Vice President. 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Re: Joe W. Ingram Trust - Union National 
Bank in Kansas City, Co-trustee. 
Dear Mr. Royer: 
This refers to your letter of March 3, 1967, enclosing 
certain documents, including a letter dated March 2, 1967, addressed 
to you by Mr. Robert B. Langworthy of the law firm of Linde, Thomson, 
Van Dyke, Fairchild & Langworthy, Kansas City, Missouri, relative 
to the application filed by the Salisbury Savings Bank, Salisbury, 
Missouri ("Salisbury Bank"), with the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, for permission to acquire the assets and to assume the 
liabilities of the Farmers Savings Bank, Clifton Hill, Missouri 
("Farmers Bank"), both nonmember insured banks. You raise certain 
questions with respect to the impact of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, as amended in 1966, upon the institutions involved. 
As we understand the facts presented, the Joe W. Ingram 
Trust, for which the Union National Bank in Kansas City, Kansas City, 
Missouri ("Union National") is co-trustee, is a long-term charitable 
trust that owns or controls 25 per cent or more of the stock of each 
of three banks, namely, the Bank of Bynumville, Bynumville, Missouri 
(nonmember insured bank), the Salisbury Bank, and the Farmers Bank. 
Such ownership or control has existed at least since July 1, 1966. 
We are in agreement with you that, prior to July 1, 1966, 
the charitable trust was not a bank holding company under the Bank 
Holding Company Act. However, the 1966 amendments to that Act, by 
virtue of the redefinition of the term "company", have extended 
coverage of the Act to long-term trusts and have removed the exemption 
for charitable institutions. Accordingly, the 1966 amendments to 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1224 
Mr. George D. Royer, Jr. 
- 2 -
the Act caused the Joe W. Ingram Trust to become a bank holding 
company; and pursuant to the requirements of section 5(a) of the 
Act, the Trust should ha.ve registered with the Board on or before 
December 28, 1966. If the Salisbury Bank should acquire the assets 
of the Farmers Bank, as proposed, the Trust would still own or 
control 25 per cent or more of each of two banks, namely, the 
Bynumville Bank and the Salisbury Bank; and, on this basis, would 
continue to be a bank holding company required to register with 
the Board and to comply with all the other requirements of the Act. 
We are unable to agree with your interpretation that con-
summation of the proposed acquisition would terminate the Trust's 
status as a bank holding company. Whether or not the trustees of 
the Ingram Trust have power to vote the stock of the Salisbury. Bank, 
the Trust has (and would continue to have) legal ownership of 25 per 
cent or more of the stock of the Salisbury Bank; and as the statute, 
imparts bank holding company status to a. company on the basis of 
ownership or control, the Trust's ownership of the stock of the 
Salisbury Bank would operate to confer bank holding company status 
upon the Trust (regardless of who controls the stock). 
The provisions of section 2(a)(A) provide that "no bank 
and no company owning or controlling voting shares of a. bank shall 
be a bank holding company by virtue of such bank's ownership Or 
control of shares in a fiduciary capacity except a.s provided in 
paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (g) of this section." As 
suggested by Mr. Langworthy, on the basis of the facts presented, 
section 2(a) (A) apparently would relieve Union National itself of 
bank holding company status. However, these statutory provisions 
do not affect the status of the Joe W. Ingram Trust as a. bank' holding 
company under the rationale earlier set forth. 
In the light of the circumstances herein, the Board has 
concluded that the Joe W. Ingram Trust will be allowed until May 15, 
1967 to register as a. bank holding company and to file an annual 
report for the year 1966. 
Please advise Mr. Langworthy of the substance of this letter. 
It is suggested that you furnish the trustees or their attorneys with 
copies of the Board's forms FR Y-5 and FR Y-6, and provide such 
assistance as may be requested in the preparation of the registration 
statement and the annual report. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1225. 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
3/29/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
f w Rtsf: 
March 29, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 2.0503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your memorandum of March 17, 1967, 
requesting the views of the Board of Governors on S. 714, a bill 
concerning loans by member banks of the Federal Reserve System to 
their executive officers, as well as certain loans by Federal credit 
unions. 
On March 14, 1967, Governor Robertson testified before 
the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions of the Senate Banking 
and Currency Committee on certain proposed legislation, including 
S. 714. As indicated on pages 8 and 9 of his statement, a copy 
of which is enclosed, the Board believes it would be desirable to 
liberalize the basis for loans to executive officers in the way 
provided in the proposed amendments to section 22(g) of the Federal 
Reserve Act contained in section 1 of S. 714. Since the provisions 
of section 2 of S. 714, which deal with certain loans by Federal 
credit unions, do not relate to the Board's area of responsibility, 
the Board has no comments with respect to that section. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Seer etary. 
Enclosure 

1228 
B D A R D O F • D V E R N • R 5 
Item No. 11 
..'"Of 
• F T H E 
3/29/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL. CORRESPONDENCE 
TO TH E BOARD 
March 29, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in reference to your Legislative Referral 
Memorandum of March 24, 1967, asking for the views of the Board 
on the draft bill of the Department of the Treasury "To extend 
the authority for exemptions from the antitrust laws to assist 
in safeguarding the balance-of-payments position of the United 
States". The exemption was enacted into law on a standby basis 
September 9, 1965, for a period ending May 9 of this year. The 
draft bill would extend the termination date of the 1965 law to 
June 30, 1969. 
The Board would have no objection to the extension of 
the standby provision as proposed by the Department of the 
Treasury. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
