MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 29, 1969 

1791 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 29, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daanei/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherri til/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
1/ Withdrew from morning session at point indicated in minutes; 
attended afternoon session. 
2/ Withdrew from morning session at point indicated in minutes; 
did not attend afternoon session. 

I
^ f o o 
5/29/69 
-2-
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation D. Pursuant to the under-
standing at yesterday's meeting, there had been distributed a draft 
of press release relating to a proposed amendment to Regulation D, 
Re serves of Member Banks, designed to insure that checks resulting 
from transfers involving foreign branches would not be used to effect 
a reduction in required reserves. The proposed amendment would prevent 
a member bank from deducting from demand deposits, for purposes of 
computing reserve requirements, any "cash items in process of collec-
ti on" or "balances due from other banks" involving any account with or 
in a foreign branch of the member bank. A draft notice of proposed 
rule making for publication in the Federal Register for comment was 
attached to the draft press release. 
During a review of the drafts, members of the Board mentioned 
certain respects in which clarification would seem desirable. To 

1733 
5/29/69 
-3-
meet points raised by Governors Maisel and Brimmer, the staff sug-
gested that an explanation might be included in the press release 
as to why Regulation D contains a general provision that permits 
member banks in calculating the amount of their required reserves 
"to deduct from the amount of their gross demand deposits the amount 
of...cash items in process of collection, principally checks," and 
why, on the other hand, there appeared to be no reason to permit 
items credited to a foreign branch account to be deducted from its 
parent bank's deposits in the calculating of reserve requirements. 
There was general agreement with this approach. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he would anticipate questions 
as to the relationship between the proposed move and the more gener-
ally discussed problem of moderating the inflow of Euro-dollars, and 
he suggested that the press release might contain some indication 
that the present proposal did not represent the extent of the Board's 
concern over the Euro-dollar issue. Other members of the Board 
expressed the view that such an indication might imply that the 
Board had decided to go further than had thus far been determined. 
In further discussion, several editorial-type changes were 
suggested, and it was understood that new drafts reflecting this 
rooming's discussion would be prepared for consideration this after-
noon. 
Reports by foreign branches. Mr. Gemmill referred to monthly 
reporting forms for foreign branches which were now ready to be put 

1794 
5/29/69 
-4-
into operation. The forms, approved by the Board on December 20, 
1968, for clearance with the Bureau of the Budget and subsequently 
negotiated with a panel of bankers convened by the Budget Bureau, 
were expected to provide the basis for a general reporting system for 
the branches that would be useful to an evaluation of (1) branch 
activities in relation to the U.S. balance of payments and the 
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program, (2) the impact of branch 
activities on credit market developments in the United States, and 
(3) the significance of these activities for Euro-dollar market 
developments. 
In response to a question, Mr. Gemmill indicated that the 
information would be obtained on a month-end basis. In the ensuing 
discussion several members of the Board expressed a preference for 
some other reporting basis, on the ground that a month-end basis 
would lend itself too readily to window dressing and result in sub-
stantial interim movements of funds. One member suggested collection 
of data on an average daily basis. 
Members of the staff pointed out that the month-end basis 
would be compatible with a whole series of other available data 
relating to the banking system. Further, the primary purpose in this 
instance was not to secure information for regulatory purposes. 
Governor Robertson proposed that the matter be held in abeyance 
and that the staff be requested to develop for further Board consider-
ation arguments in favor of collection of data on an average daily 
ba sis or on other alternative dates to be determined. 

5/29/69 
-5-
Governor Brimmer agreed with Governor Robertson's suggestion 
and added that he was concerned about the status of branches situated 
in the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. It was his understanding that 
they were not classed as foreign branches for the purpose of balance 
of payments calculations or under the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Program. However, they apparently were exempt from the limitations 
of Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits. This situation was 
highlighted by an article in today's New York Times that referred to 
two banks which had allegedly taken advantage of this loophole and 
used it as a basis for soliciting deposits through their branches in 
the Virgin Islands. 
Governor Robertson stated that several Reserve Bank Presidents 
had expressed concern over alleged activities such as described in the 
newspaper article and were getting in touch with the heads of the 
commercial banks involved. He suggested that the Board assume an 
attitude of watchful waiting to see how the situation developed. 
Following further discussion, it was understood that use of 
the proposed report forms would be held in abeyance. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting during the foregoing 
discussion. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Southern California First 
National Bank, San Diego, California, with Bank of Santa Ana, Santa Ana, 
California, was approved for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 

1786 
5/29/69 
- 6-
There appears to be some competition existing 
between Southern California First National Bank, 
San Diego, and Bank of Santa Ana, and there is poten-
tial for more competition between them in view of the 
State branching statutes. The overall competitive 
effect of the merger would be adverse. 
Governor Mitchell would have preferred the conclusion recom-
mended by the Banking Markets Section, namely, that the competitive 
effects of the proposed merger would be slightly adverse. 
Policy record entries. There had been distributed a memo-
randum from Mr. Broida dated May 26, 1969, submitting the policy 
record entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
on March 4, 1969. The entry had been approved by the Board on May 2, 
and no further suggestions had been received. It was proposed to 
release the entry to the press on Monday afternoon, June 2. 
The release of the entry was approved unanimously. 
With a memorandum of May 28, 1969, Mr. Broida submitted a 
draft of policy record entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee on April 1, 1969, as revised to take account of 
comments received from Committee members and staff following distribu-
tion of a preliminary draft. 
The entry was approved unanimously by the Board, subject to the 
understanding that it would be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents 
Primarily for information but with an indication of the date by which 
any further comments should be received and that it would be released to 
the press about June 30, 1969, after final Board review. 

. 1797 
5/29/69 
-7-
Dominion Bankshares. There had been distributed drafts of an 
order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on May 5, 1969, 
of the application of Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, 
Virginia, to acquire shares of Security National Bank, Baileys Cross 
Roads, Falls Church, Virginia. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
are attached under Item No. 1. 
Form for analyzing bank capital. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from Mr. Leavitt dated May 16, 1969, proposing that a 
study of the form for analyzing bank capital (Form ABC) be instituted 
in order to bring the form more nearly into line with modern banking 
practices. The memorandum set forth 
some of the criticisms that had 
been made and summarized areas where changes had been suggested. 
Mr. Leavitt noted that there was a need for a broad in-depth study 
of bank capital and liquidity. However, he suggested, for reasons 
stated in his memorandum, that a study of the form for analyzing bank 
capital be undertaken independently by a special task force of System 
personnel. 
It was the view of the Board that the study of the form should 
go forward as rapidly as possible. There was agreement with Governor 
Robertson's suggestion that Governor Sherrill be asked to assure the 
selection of a representative task force. 
The undertaking of the proposed study was then approved 
unanimously. 

1.783 
5/29/69 
-8-
Miscellaneous matters. The following items were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had 
been made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the 
respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank 
2 
of Richmond approving an additional 
expenditure in connection with the 
Communications and Records Center at 
Culpeper, Virginia. 
Letter to the Secretary of Commerce 
3 
amending the Board's letter of 
January 2, 1968, as amended April 29, 
1968, so as to certify that one-bank 
holding companies and other financial 
holding companies would be covered by 
the Federal Reserve Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program. 
Regulations on advertising. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated May 27, 1969, from the Legal Division with respect 
to proposed amendments to Regulation Q (Payment of Interest on Deposits) 
relating to advertising of interest on deposits. The memorandum 
summarized comments received following publication of the proposal 
and reviewed arguments for and against.the proposed amendments. 
The comments received had been discussed at staff level with 
representatives of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board (both of which agencies had published similar pro-
posals), and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and several 
minor revisions had been agreed upon. Attached to the memorandum was a 
revised draft regulation. 

17 
5/29/69 
-9-
Pursuant to a suggestion by Under Secretary of the Treasury 
Volcker to the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation relating 
to advertisement of interest on U.S. Savings Bonds, an interagency 
staff group had met with a representative of the Treasury to discuss 
a proposal that the Treasury adopt the practice of advertising the 
yield on savings bonds if held only for one year, in addition to 
the yield if held to final maturity, on condition that the super-
visory agencies would drop from their proposed regulations the 
provision permitting the advertisement of multi-year average yields 
achieved by compounding interest. The Legal Division recommended 
that the Board go along with the Treasury's proposal. 
Governor Robert son stated that the compromise suggested by 
the Treasury would be agreeable to him. Much criticism had been 
leveled by banks at the Treasury's method of advertising interest 
on savings bonds, and he deemed it desirable to put that advertising 
on a comparable basis with the advertising by banks. He suggested 
that an effort be made to work out an agreement among the agencies 
in favor of the Treasury proposal. 
After further discussion, Governor Robertson's suggestion 
was approved unanimously. 
Governor Sherrill withdrew from the meeting during the fore-
going discussion. 
Salaries at Richmond Bank. Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (copy attached 

5/29/69 
-10-
as Item No. 4) approving the payment of salaries to Fred L. Bagwell 
and Wyatt F. Davis as Examining Officers at the annual rates fixed 
by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Salary structure at Dallas. The Board approved unanimously 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas (copy attached as 
Item No. 5) approving a revised employee salary structure for the 
head office and branches. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room 
at 2:00 p.m. with Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and 
Brimmer present, along with the following staff members: Messrs. 
Holland, Forrestal, Robert Solomon, Molony, Coyne, Nichols, Hexter, 
O'Connell, Sanders, Axilrod, Sigel, Gemmill, and Dahl, and Miss 
Wolcott. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation D. In accordance with the 
understanding at the morning session, revised drafts of a press 
release and notice of proposed rule making relating to a proposed 
amendment to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, were distrib-
uted. During discussion certain changes, principally of an editorial 
nature, were agreed upon. Members of the Board also suggested rear-
rangement of certain portions of the press release as well as 
insertion in the press release of clarifying language from the 
proposed notice. 
Subject to the understanding that the changes agreed upon 
would be incorporated, publication in the Federal Register of the 

1 
Wti 
1801 
I 
5/29/69 
-11-
notice of proposed rule making was authorized, along with issuance 
of the press release, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
m 
" i t 
Oil 
"i 
no, 
• 
*tv 

1802 
Item No. 1 
5/29/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Roanoke, Virginia, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Security 
National Bank, Baileys Cross Roads, 
Falls Church, Virginia. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK BY 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Dominion Bankshares 
Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board*s prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per ccnt or 
more of the voting shares of Security National Bank, Baileys Cross 
Roads, Falls Church, Virginia. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

1803 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 22, 1969 (34 Federal Register 5567), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period Is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 29th day of May, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1804 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF SECURITY NATIONAL BANK, BAILEYS CROSS ROADS, 
FALLS CHURCH, VIRGINIA 
STATEMENT 
Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior ap-
proval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Security National Bank, Baileys Cross Roads, Falls Church, Virginia 
("Security National"). 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and re-
quested his views and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller 
recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 

1805 
- 2 -
of banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board 
approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section 
of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to 
tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each 
case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. -
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization in Virginia, controls 
deposits of $425 million, representing 6.2 per cent of the total de-
1/ 
posits in the State. 
Completion of the proposed acquisition would 
increase Applicant's control of State deposits by .4 per cent. Its 
relative size would not change and consummation of the proposal would 
not significantly affect the present degree of State-wide concentration. 
Security National, with six offices and deposits of $29 million, 
has its principal office and four branches in Fairfax County and has 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of December 31, 1968, 
and reflect mergers and acquisitions approved by the appropriate super-
visory authorities. 

-3-
1806 
one branch in the neighboring city of Falls Church, The areas 
served by the six offices are located in Fairfax County, the City 
of Falls Church, and some of the western portions of Arlington 
County and the western portion of the City of Alexandria. Within 
those areas, there are 43 banking offices, 30 of which are operated 
by registered holding companies. 
With the exception of The City Bank and Trust Company of 
Alexandria ("City Bank") none of Applicant's subsidiaries are located 
within 95 miles of Security National, The nearest offices of Security 
National and'City Bank are their main offices, which are approximately 
4-1/2 miles apart. They are separated by numerous competing insti-
tutions, and derive only a small amount of business from each other's 
service areas. None of Applicant's other subsidiaries competes with 
Security National. 
While City Bank, with deposits of $9 million, and Security 
National are potential competitors because of their proximity to each 
other and because State law permits each of them to establish de novo 
branches in areas served by the other, the existence of numerous com-
peting banks in the intervening area, and additional considerations 
hereinafter discussed, make it unlikely that significant competition 
will develop between these banks in the foreseeable future. 
In the light of these facts, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 

•M 
-4-
monopolize the business of banking in any area. It does not appear 
that consun&nation of the proposal would have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition or tending to create a monopoly in any section 
of the country, or would in any manner be in restraint of trade. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition, management and prospects of Applicant are 
considered satisfactory. Similar findings are warranted with respect 
to all of Applicant's subsidiaries except for City Bank. In approving 
Applicant's acquisition of City Bank in November, 1968, the Board noted 
the need for executive management in City Bank, and for substantial 
improvement with respect to several aspects of its total operations 
(1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1020). In view of the short time since 
Applicant's acquisition of City Bank, the improvements and innovations 
anticipated under Applicant's ownership are yet to be fully realized. 
Accordingly, City Bank's financial condition, management and prospects 
are considered generally fair^ 
Security National's operating history has been marked by a 
high rate of executive management turnover, and the bank's capital 
has been depleted by heavy loan losses. These circumstances make less 
than favorable Security National's prospects under present ownership. 
However, undcer Applicant's ownership, Security National's capital would 
be improv«ed, arid, through access to Applicant's management resources, 
Security National's management placement and retention problems would 
appear to be solved, arid its overall operations placed in a more assured 
postune. 

1808 
i 
-5-
» 
The foregoing considerations are consistent with, and lend 
weight toward, approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would not affect the convenience 
or needs of the communities served by its present subsidiaries. 
While Applicant plans to broaden the services to be offered 
by Security National, the proposed acquisition's principal contribution 
to the communities involved would appear to be the indirect results 
of the improvements in Security Bank's management and operations which, 
as earlier discussed, may reasonably be expected from Applicant's 
ownership of the bank. 
The communities served by Security National are amply 
supplied with convenient, full-service banking outlets, and there is 
no evidence of major unserved banking needs. Security National's 
affiliation with Applicant would provide the affected communities with 
an additional well-managed, full-service banking institution, the pro-
spect of which weighs favorably toward approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
May 29, 1969. 

1609 
ol^ovA'-. 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
5/29/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 29, 1969. 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Heflin: 
This refers to your letter of May 8, 1969, requesting 
Board approval of specified additional expenditures in connection 
with the Communications and Records Center at Culpeper, Virginia. 
Your letter relates to two aspects of the Culpeper development, 
namely, preparation of the basic building for installation of the 
Marshall Communications switch, and expenditures relating to the 
basic Culpeper construction contract. Regarding the Marshall Commu-
nications switch installation, you were advised by telegram of May IJ, 
1969, of the Board's approval of an additional expenditure in the 
amount of $52,000. 
As to the basic Culpeper construction contract, you advise 
that your Bank's Board of Directors has approved an additional ex-
penditure of $125,000 beyond the presently Board authorized sum of 
$5 727 000 (including the $52,000 authorized on May 13), or a total 
estimated construction figure of $5,852,000. The Board has approved 
your request for an additional expenditure in the amount of $125,000 
with the understanding that this sum will be applied in the manner 
set forth in your May 8 letter. 
The Board's telegram of May 13 and this letter together 
reflect Board approval of additional expenditures totaling $177,000 
as requested in your May 8 letter. 
Very truly yours, 
CSigned) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

181© 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
S O S 5 I 
D F T H E 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 3 
5/29/69 
June 2, 1969 
The Honorable Maurice H. Stans, 
Secretary, 
U.S. Department of Commerce, 
Washington, D. C. 
20230 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
In accordance with the provisions of section 1(c) of Execu-
tive Order 11387, by letter of January 2, 1968 to Secretary Trowbridge, 
and by letter of April 29, 1968 to Secretary Smith, the Board of 
Governors certified that twelve enumerated categories of banks and 
financial institutions are subject to the foreign credit restraint 
program referred to in said section 1(c). 
The Board of Governors hereby expands the scope of said 
certification by adding a new item reading as follows: 
13. Corporations whose assets consist principally 
of stock of institutions of the first 10 
categories enumerated, in accordance with 
provisions of Executive Order 11387, Janu-
ary 1, 1968, in the letter from the Chairman 
of the Board of Governors to the Secretary 
of Commerce of January 2, 1968, as amended 
by letter of April 29, 1968. 
In accordance with the provisions of said section 1(c), the 
Board of Governors delineates for exemption from the provisions of sec-
tion 1 of said Executive Order all banks and financial institutions 
comprised within the Board's certification, as expanded hereby, with 
the exception of any bank or financial institution that is subject to 
the reporting provisions of said programs but is not reporting (or 
covered by reports filed by another or others on its behalf) in sub-
stantial compliance with said reporting provisions. 
The foregoing certification and delineation are subject to 
modification or termination with respect to any category or individual 
bank or financial institution, in the event that (a) the foreign credit 

The Honorable Maurice H. Stans 
-2-
r * • 
.... 
. 
, • . 
restraint programs referred to in section 1(c) of said Executive Order 
are so modified that such category or individual bank or financial 
institution is no longer subject to said programs or (b) the Board of 
Governors determines that modification or termination of said delinea-
tion is necessary or appropriate in the public interest. Any such 
modification or termination will be communicated by the Board to the 
Secretary of Commerce. 
Sincerely, 

1812 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
5/29/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 29, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Wilson H. Elkins, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Elkins: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
listed below for the period June 1 through December 31, 1969. 
These salaries are at the rates fixed by your Board 
of Directors as reported in your letter of May 8, 1969. 
Name 
Title 
Annual 
Salary 
Fred L. Bagwell 
Examining Officer 
Wyatt F. Davis • 
Examining Officer 
$16,000 
16,000 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N • R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
5/29/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 29, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
As requested in your letter of May 8, 1969, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for 
the respective grades of the employees' salary structure applicable 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and the El Paso, Houston, and 
San Antonio Branches, effective June 1, 1969: 
Dallas, El Paso, Houston, and San Antonio 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
$ 3,360 
3,420 
3,600 
3,925 
4,355 
4,830 
5,360 
5,970 
6,645 
7,400 
8,260 
9,220 
10,200 
11,365 
12,650 
14,115 
$ 4,125 
4,440 
4,740 
5,300 
5,875 
6,515 
7,240 
8,055 
8,970 
9,995 
11,150 
12,450 
13,780 
15,340 
17,075 
19,055 

1814 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell 
- 2 -
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees within 
the limits specified for the grades in which their respective positions 
are classified. All employees whose salaries are below the minimum of 
their grades as a result of this structure increase should be brought 
within appropriate ranges by September 1, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 6 
5/29/69 
For Immediate release. 
M a y 
9 » 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
proposed an amendment to its rules governing member bank reserves 
(Regulation D) designed to ensure that checks resulting from transfers 
involving foreign branches are not used to effect a reduction in 
required reserves. 
Specifically, the proposed amendment would prevent a 
member bank from deducting from demand deposits, for purpose of 
computing reserve requirements, any "cash items in process of 
collection" or "balances due frcm other banks" involving any account 
with or in a foreign branch of the member bank. 
"The effect of the proposal relates principally to the 
practice of bidding for Euro-dollar deposits by foreign branches of 
member banks," the Board said in explanation of the proposal. "For 
example, when a foreign depositor in a domestic office of a U. S. 
bank instructs that bank to transfer funds to another U. S. bank for 
his account in the latter's foreign branch, the transfer is sometimes 
effected by a cashier's check. Upon its receipt by the second bank, 
that chock hip been treated as a 'cash item in process c:;: collection' 
that i-j credited to the depositor's account in the foreign branch. 
Such accounts are not subject to reserve requirements under 
Regulation D. 

1S16 
-2-
"A major reason for permitting deduction of cash items in 
process of collection in computing deposits subject to reserves is to 
avoid duplication of reserves against the same funds. In a purely 
domestic transaction of the kind described, a member bank issuing a 
cashier's check maintains reserves against the funds involved while 
the check is in process of collection. The receiving bank is 
normally permitted, during the collection process, to deduct the 
item from its deposits subject to reserve requirements in order to 
avoid duplication of reserves in such instances. In the case of 
Euro-dollar transactions, however, the receiving bank credits the 
funds to an account that is not subject to reserve requirements, 
and therefore there appears to be no reason to permit items credited 
to a foreign branch account to be deducted from the parent bank's 
deposits in the calculation of reserve requirements under 
Regulation D." 
The amendment would eliminate one element of attractive-
ness of Euro-dollar deposits to those member banks that have made 
frequent use of the deduction of such items in connection with 
their Euro-dollar transactions. 
The Board asks that any comments on the proposal be sent 
to the Board's offices no later than July 15, 1909. A copy of the 
proposed amendments in the form submitted for publication in the 
Federal Register is attached. 
Attachment. 

1817 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 204] 
[Reg. D] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Certain Cash Items in Process of Collection 
The Board of Governors is considering amending the last 
sentence of § 204.1(h) to read: "Items handled as noncash collections 
and items the amounts of which are credited to any account with or in 
a foreign branch of the member bank may not be treated as 'cash items 
in process of collection' within the meaning of this part." 
In conjunction with such amendment, the last sentence of 
§ 204.2(b) would be amended to read: "'Balances due from other banks' 
do not include balances due from Federal Reserve Banks, balances (pay-
able in dollars or otherwise) due from foreign banks or branches thereof 
6/ 
wherever located or from foreign branches of other domestic banks, 
or 
balances representing checks received or forwarded for collection and 
not yet paid by the drawee the amounts of which are credited to any 
account with or in a foreign branch of the member bank." (Footnote 6 
would remain unchanged.) 
The purpose of these proposed amendments is to disallow as a 
deduction from deposits in computing a member bank's reserve requirements 
any "cash item in process of collection" or "balance due from other bank" 
that is credited to any account with or in a foreign branch of such bank. 

1818 
The effect of the proposal relates principally to the 
practice of bidding for Euro-dollar deposits by foreign branches 
of member banks. For example, when a foreign depositor in a 
domestic office of a U. S. bank instructs that bank to transfer 
funds to another U. S. bank for his account in the latter's foreign 
branch, the transfer is sometimes effected by a cashier's check. 
Upon its receipt by the second bank, that check has been treated 
as a "cash item in process of collection" that is credited to the 
depositor's account in the foreign branch. Such accounts are not 
subject to reserve requirements under Regulation D. 
A major reason for permitting deduction of cash items 
in process of collection in computing deposits subject to reserves 
is to avoid duplication of reserves against the same funds. In a 
purely domestic situation of the kind described, a member bank issuing 
a cashier's check maintains reserves against the funds involved while 
the check is in process of collection. The receiving bank is normally 
permitted, during the collection process, to deduct the item from its 
deposits subject to reserve requirements in order to avoid duplication 
of reserves in such instances. In the case of Euro-dollar transactions, 
however, the receiving bank credits the funds to an account that is 
not subject to reserve requirements, and therefore there appears to 
be no reason to permit items credited to a foreign branch account to 
be deducted from the parent bank's deposits in the calculation of 
reserve requirements under Regulation D. 

1819 
-3-
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, and § 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure of the Board 
of Governors. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, in-
terested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or arguments. 
Any such material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to 
be received not later than July 15, 1969. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 29th day of May, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
i 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
