MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 24, 1970 

3 5 3 0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 24, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan and Miss Wolcott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 

3591 
12/24/70 
-2-
Southeast Bancorporation. 
A draft of an order reflecting 
approval on December 17, 1970, of the application of Southeast 
Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Deerfield 
Beach Bank and Trust Company, Deerfield Beach, Florida, had been 
distributed. 
The issuance of the order was authorized; a copy is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Ameribanc. Drafts of an order and statement reflecting approval 
on December 17, 1970, of the application of Ameribanc, Inc., St. Joseph, 
Missouri, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of 
shares of the successors by merger to The American National Bank of 
St. Joseph and Belt National Bank of St. Joseph had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized; copies 
are attached under Item No. 2. 
First National Bank of Chicago. 
In a memorandum dated 
October 12, 1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the application of The First National Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, (1) to acquire shares of The First National Bank of 
Chicago (Jamaica) Limited, Kingston, Jamaica, and (2) to continue to 
hold those shares after the Jamaica bank acquires stock of a merchant 
bank to be formed in Kingston. 
It was proposed to include the standard 
conditions imposed in connection with acquisitions of subsidiaries by 
member banks, but not to include special suspensions for the merchant 

35«jJ2 
12/24/70 
-3-
bank regarding underwriting and dealing in stocks since First National 
Bank of Chicago was aware of the need for such suspension if the 
proposed merchant bank were to engage extensively in underwriting and 
dealing in stocks. 
In a memorandum dated December 23, 1970, the Legal Division 
questioned omitting the special conditions relating to underwriting 
since such activities for the merchant bank were apparently contemplated 
at some stage. 
At today's meeting it was suggested that the proposed letter 
be expanded to include a sentence to the effect that it was understood 
the proposed merchant bank was not expected to undertake any under-
writing in the near future, but that in any event it should not under-
V 
'c 
« . - 
I 
I 
. . 
W • 
write stock of any corporation without the permission of the Board 
of Governors first having been obtained. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to The First 
National Bank of Chicago in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
H.R. 6778. The Board approved unanimously a letter to the 
Office of Management and Budget recommending approval of enrolled bill 
H.R. 6778, "To amend the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and for other 
purposes." A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
Margin regulations. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding alleged violations 
of margin regulations in connection with loans obtained by W. K. Warren, 
Jr., Tulsa, Oklahoma. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 

3 5 9 3 
12/24/70 
-4-
Miami facility. 
In a memorandum dated December 23, 1970, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations discussed the request 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta for permission to specify 
construction of a vault at the Miami facility using 18-inch concrete 
walls with steel reinforcing bars instead of the Steelcrete reinforcing 
generally specified for Reserve Bank buildings, and a 10-inch vault 
door. 
It was the conclusion of the Division that the suggested 
approach was reasonable in view of the temporary nature of the leased 
facility, particularly with the adoption of certain other protective 
safeguards. 
Following discussion during which there was staff assurance 
that other aspects of protection would be improved to offset risks 
associated with the substandard vault, the Reserve Bank's request 
was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter informing the Atlanta 
Bank of this action is attached as Item No. 6. 
Retirement System. 
On November 18, 1970, the Board of Trustees 
of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks had approved a 
5 per cent supplement, payable effective January 1, 1971, in the 
retirement allowances of all Bank Plan retirees and survivor-annuitants 
who were on the retirement rolls prior to January 1, 1970. 
Subsequently, 
question was raised whether the supplement should be payable to all 
retirees, including those with deferred annuities, or to a more limited 
group. Following consideration of the matter by a special task force, 
the Trustees amended their resolution so that the 5 per cent supplement 

3 5 5 1 1 
12/24/70 
-5-
would be payable only to Bank Plan members (and beneficiaries) who 
retired prior to January 1, 1970, and who were eligible to receive 
an immediate annuity (i.e., at least 50 years old) on the effective 
date of the supplement (January 1, 1971). The action was taken 
subject to approval by the Board of Governors and a favorable ruling 
by the Internal Revenue Service. 
In a memorandum dated December 23, 1970, the Division of 
Personnel Administration recommended that the amended resolution be 
approved. 
Included in the documentation was a memorandum dated 
December 18, 1970, in which Mr. Sherman, Consultant, advised Governor 
Maisel of the alternative approaches that had been considered by the 
task force. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he was disturbed by some 
of the concepts set forth in the distributed material with respect 
to eligibility for supplemental benefits. He did not believe that 
policies should be adopted that would result in fragmentation of 
retirement rights any more than was absolutely essential. The view 
that individuals should be tied to their jobs in order to obtain 
retirement rights represented to him a form of indenture that should 
be frowned upon. He felt that the concept of corporate employment 
in this regard was changing and that recognition of the continuing 
rights of the individual in the Retirement System should be encouraged 
rather than discouraged. 

3 5 9 5 
12/24/70 
_6_ 
The proposal was then reviewed against the background of 
the approach of the Federal Government to similar problems and 
payment of previous Bank Plan supplements. One view set forth was 
that supplemental allowances should be paid only to those who were 
actually receiving pensions as opposed to those who were eligible 
for such pensions but were not as yet receiving them. Another view 
was that supplemental payments should be made on an across-the-board 
basis to all who had acquired a vested right to the basic pension. 
A further suggestion was that the supplemental payment be made across 
the board in this case, but that those who were not yet eligible for 
immediate payment of pensions should be advised that future supplements 
would be paid only to those who were eligible to receive pensions as 
of the date the supplement became effective. 
Question was raised whether the Board favored a retirement plan 
in which persons with vested rights would have total portability of 
all benefits provided in the plan. The proposal before the Board was 
that benefits granted after a person had left the System would not 
accrue to him unless the individual had served the Federal Reserve for 
10 or more years and was at least 50 years of age when the new supplement 
became payable. This question was discussed to some extent but not 
resolved. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that the Board approve the 
amended resolution in view of the need to obtain approval of the 

35f)6 
12/24/70 
-7-
Internal Revenue Service if the January 1, 1971, effective date 
for the supplement was to be met, but that the Board keep in mind 
for further consideration in the future the points that had been 
raised. Other Board members indicated that they were agreeable, 
and Governor Brimmer suggested that approval of the present proposal 
be combined with a request that the Trustees reconsider in the near 
future the possibility of adjusting benefits of those who would not 
be covered in the present proposal. 
The amended resolution was then approved, Governors Mitchell 
and Daane abstaining, along with a letter to the Secretary of the 
Retirement System in the form attached as Item No. 7. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Branch director appointment. 
It was agreed to ascertain 
through the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta whether 
Broadus N. Butler, President, Dillard University, New Orleans, 
Louisiana, would accept appointment, if tendered, as a director of 
the New Orleans Branch for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1971, 
to succeed Robert H. Radcliff, Jr., who was unable to accept reappoint-
ment. 
It was understood that if Mr. Butler indicated that he would 
accept, the appointment would be made. 
(Note: 
It having been ascer-
tained that Mr. Butler would accept the appointment if tendered, an 
appointment telegram was sent to him on December 28, 1970.) 

35<»7 
12/24/70 
-8-
Foreign credit restraint. Governor Brimmer read portions 
of a memorandum that had been sent to the President by the Secretary 
of the Treasury containing recommendations with regard to the 
Government's capital restraint program for 1971. Among other things, 
the recommendations called for some relaxation of the Commerce 
Department's Foreign Direct Investment Program. Governor Brimmer 
noted that if the recommendations were accepted, the Board would 
have to consider what action to take with respect to its Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program and that timely notification should 
be given to the business and financial communities. 
Insurance coverage for Government securities. Mr. Holland 
provided a status report on the discussions having to do with 
insurance coverage against losses of Government securities. His 
report indicated that there was more optimism than previously that some 
solution could be reached, that negotiations were continuing with the 
insurance company that had provided the bulk of such coverage, that 
alternatives also were being considered, and that the proposal for 
the creation of a special purpose bank was apparently no longer in 
the picture. 
H.R. 19333. The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
the Office of Management and Budget recommending approval of enrolled 
bill H.R. 19333, "To provide greater protection for customers of 
registered brokers and dealers and members of national securities 
exchanges." A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 8. 

12/24/70 
-9-
Discount rate. Mr. Holland advised that there had been 
discussion with the Reserve Bank discount officers of the divergence 
between Reserve Banks in the rate on advances to individuals, part-
nerships, and corporations other than member banks under the last 
paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. He said there 
appeared to be sentiment for getting back to a uniform rate on such 
advances, probably 7 per cent. 
With respect to the advice received that the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had acted to establish a 
discount rate of 5-1/4 per cent (rather than 5-1/2 per cent) subject 
to review and determination by the Board of Governors, Mr. Holland 
said that the Presidents of all Reserve Banks had been informed of 
the situation. He noted the dates on which meetings of the boards 
of directors of most of the Banks were scheduled to be held in 
early January. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
12/24/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SOUTHEAST BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Miami, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Deerfield Beach Bank and Trust Com-
pany, Deerfield Beach, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., 
Miami, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Deerfield Beach Bank and Trust Company, Deerfield 
Beach, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking for the State of Florida and requested his views and recom-
mendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the application, 

3600 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 17, 1970 (35 Federal Register 16345), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and need s of the communities to be served. Upon such consideration, 
the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in 
Florida, controls 11 banks which hold combined deposits of approxi-
mately $841 million, representing close to 7 per cent of total 
deposits held by Florida's commercial banks. 
(All banking data are 
as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) Upon acquisition 
of Bank, Applicant's control of deposits in the State would rise to 
7.2 per cent. 
The relevant banking market is considered to be the 
northern one-third of Broward County, which includes the cities 
°f Pompano Beach, Lighthouse Point, and Deerfield Beach, and 
that portion of Palm Beach County which contains the city of 

-3-
3601 
Boca Raton. The market is one of the most rapidly growing areas in 
Florida. Bank, with deposits of $39.5 million, is the smallest among 
five banking organizations in the relevant banking area, and holds 
12.6 per cent of commercial bank deposits there. 
It is reported that 
five charter applications have been filed seeking to establish new 
banks in the market. 
In addition, one new State bank has received 
charter approval. 
Although Applicant is dominant in Dade County, which is to 
the south of Broward County, Applicant's area of dominance is 60 miles 
frcm Bank and no significant competition now exists between Bank and 
Applicant's Dade County subsidiaries. Applicant's subsidiary located 
closest to Bank is in Fort Lauderdale, 15 miles south of Bank and, 
according to the record, derives only a minimal amount of business 
from Bank's service area. Because of the distances involved and the 
traffic patterns in the areas concerned, the location of 27 banks in 
the area intervening between Bank and Applicant's closest subsidiary, 
the indications that deconcentration will be effected in the relevant 
market by virtue of the establishment of new banks, and the fact that 
Florida law prohibits branch banking, it appears that consummation of 
the proposal herein would not result in the elimination of any signifi-
cant present competition nor the foreclosure of any significant poten-
tial competition between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries. 
On 
the record before the Board, considerations relating to the financial 
condition, management, and prospects of Applicant, its present 

3 8 0 2 
-4-
subsidiaries and Bank are consistent with approval of the application. 
All banking needs of the North Broward area appear to be served 
adequately. 
However, a future need for increased bank services seems 
likely; and consummation of the proposed acquisition would enable 
Bank to provide expanded and improved services. 
It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, 
and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order, unless such time shall be extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 28, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3603 
Item No. 2 
12/24/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
AMERIBANC, INC., 
St. Joseph, Missouri, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors1 qualifying shares) of 
the successor by merger to Tha American 
National Bank of St. Joseph, and the 
successor by merger to Belt National 
bank of St. Joseph, both in St. Joseph, 
Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Ameribanc, Inc., St. Joseph, 
Missouri, for the Board's approval of action whereby Applicant would 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 100 per cent 

3oG4 
- 2 -
of the voting shares (less directors1 qualifying shares) of the successor 
by merger to The American National Bank of St. Joseph, and the successor by 
merger to Belt National Bank of St. Joseph, both in St. Joseph, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Deputy Comptroller 
recommended approval of the application ' 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 23, 1970 (35 Federal Register 16572), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 

3&J5 
-3-
By order of the Board of Governors, December 28, 1970, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns, and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, M&isel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3G06 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
AMERIBANC, INC•, ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Araeribanc, Inc., St. Joseph, Missouri ("Applicant"), has 
filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become 
a bank holding company, through the acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by 
merger to The American National Bank of St. Joseph ("American"), and the 
successor by merger to Belt National Bank of St# Joseph ("Belt"), both 
in St. Joseph, Missouri. 
The banks into which American and Belt are to be merged have 
no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of all 
the voting shares of American and Belt. Accordingly, the proposed 
acquisition of the shares of the successor organizations is treated as 
the proposed acquisition of the shares of American and Belt. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, and 
requested his views and recommendation. 
The Deputy Comptroller 
recommended approval of the application. 

2 -
3807 
Statutory considerations - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction - The 10 
largest banking organizations in the State of Missouri control total 
deposits of $4.09 billion, representing 40.2 per cent of the deposits 
1/ 
held by all commercial banks in the State. 
Acquisition by Applicant 
of American ($83.9 million deposits) and Belt ($7.3 million deposits) 
would result in Applicant becoming Missouri's twelfth largest banking 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to 
date. 

3608 
-20-
organization and the seventh largest of the twelve registered bank 
holding companies in the State; it would control .9 per cent of the 
State's total deposits. 
Both of the proposed subsidiary banks are located in St. 
Joseph, a city of approximately 72,000, which is located 55 miles 
north of Kansas City. American, the largest of the ten banks serving 
the St. Joseph area, is located in the downtown business district and 
controls 38.6 per cent of the area's deposits. Belt, with 3.3 per 
cent of the area's deposits, is the seventh largest bank, and is 
located on the eastern edge of the city. 
Although the service areas of the two banks overlap to 
some extent, consummation of the proposal would not eliminate signif-
icant competition between the two banks, primarily because of the 
close affiliation that exists between the two banks. That relation-
ship has existed for nine years, and at the present time the majority 
shareholders of American own approximately 95 per cent of the shares 
of Belt. It appears that the close affiliate relationship would 
continue to exist regardless of the Board's action on the present 
application. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any part of the United States, and would 

-4-
3809 
not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to 
create a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects -
Applicant's financial condition is satisfactory, its management is 
competent, and its prospects, which are dependent upon those of its 
two proposed subsidiaries, appear favorable. 
The financial condition and management of American are 
satisfactory, and its prospects are regarded as favorable. Belt is 
somewhat undercapitalized, and Applicant intends to inject additional 
capital. Consummation of the proposal would provide Belt with greater 
management depth and enhance its prospects. 
The Board concludes that considerations relating to the 
banking factors are consistent with approval of the application as 
they relate to Applicant and American, and lend some weight in support 
of approval as they relate to Belt. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved - The 
major banking needs of the St. Joseph area appear to be adequately 
served by present banking facilities. However, Applicant has indicated 
that it would consider reactivation of the trust services at Belt. In 
addition, consummation of the transaction would enable Belt to more 
effectively meet the expanding credit needs of its service area and 
Would make Applicant's specialized services more accessible to customers 
in the east St. Joseph area. 

-22-
3 6 1 0 
These considerations are consistent with, and lend some support 
for, approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
December 28, 1970. 

: o 
\ 
hjii <j\sj- -.. ••ix, I w * 
rrn t 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
3Jill 
Item No. 23 
12/24/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
December 24, 1970 
The First National Bank 
of Chicago, 
One First National Plaza, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60670 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 16, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for The First National 
Bank of Chicago ("FNBC"), Chicago, Illinois, to purchase and hold 
all of the shares of The First National Bank of Chicago (Jamaica) 
Limited ("FNBC Jamaica"), Kingston, Jamaica, at a total cost of 
approximately $2,400,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
of FNBC Jamaica by FNBC is granted subject to the following conditions 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if FNBC Jamaica shall in any manner 
engage in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be permissible if FNBC Jamaica were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FNBC Jamaica as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FNBC 
Jamaica be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Reg-
gulation K in the same manner as if FNBC Jamaica were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 

1 2 
The First National Bank of Chicago 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) 
of Regulation K. 
The Board also grants consent for FNBC to continue to hold 
the stock of FNBC Jamaica after FNBC Jamaica acquires all of the stock 
of a merchant bank to be formed in Kingston, Jamaica, at a total cost 
of approximately $200,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. This consent is granted sub-
ject to the same three conditions as set forth in the second para-
graph of this letter, with the substitution of "the merchant bank" 
for "FNBC Jamaica," with the suspension set forth in the third para-
graph. 
It is understood that the proposed merchant bank is not ex-
pected to undertake any underwriting in the near future, and that in 
any event it will not underwrite stock of any corporation without 
FNBC first obtaining the permission of the Board of Governors. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your bank and its subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

3 6 1 3 
Item No. 4 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
12/24/70 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C . 
H O S 5 I 
O F F I C E ; O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 24, 1970 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
De ar Mr. Romme1: 
I am writing in response to your request of 
December 22, 1970, for views and recommendations of the Board 
of Governors with respect to enrolled bill H. R« 6778, "To 
amend the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and for other 
purposes." 
The Board recommends Presidential approval of the 
bill 
Sincerely 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 12 
12/24/70 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 28, 1970 
Mr. Leonard H. Rossen, 
Assistant Director, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Division of Trading and Markets, Room 483, 
500 North Capitol Street, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 
20549 
Dear Mr. Rossen: 
Enclosed are documents relating to alleged violations of 
the Board of Governors' Regulation G ("Securities Credit by Persons 
other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers") and U ("Credit'by Banks for 
the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks") by Mr. W. K. 
Warren, Jr. (915 First National Building, Tulsa, Oklahoma). 
As you 
will recall, this matter has been discussed with you orally by Miss 
Janet Hart of the Board's staff, and Mr. Warren Shantz, Consultant 
to the Board. 
The circumstances involving the alleged violations are set 
forth in the letter of August 25, 1970, from Mr. C. V. Doherty, a 
copy of which is enclosed. A preliminary investigation of the bank-
ing transactions described in the Doherty letter, as set forth in 
others of the enclosures, suggests that the allegations are sub-
stantially correct. 
However, in order to complete the investigation, 
so that the Board can determine what further action is indicated, 
including possible referral to the Commission or to the Department 
of Justice, it would be most helpful if you could obtain the follow-
ing information from the brokerage firms listed below, in respect 
of any account or accounts they carried for Warren Fund, or for any 
of the other Warren entities, during the period from October 1, 1968 
to July 31, 1969. 

3 t > i 5 
Mr. Leonard H. Rossen 
-2-
1. Monthly statements of account, containing 
itemized records of purchases, sales, receipts 
and disbursements of cash and securities. 
2. New account card. 
3. Partnership agreements. 
Evans & Co. -- New York City 
Equity Research Associates -- New York City 
Harris Upham & Co. -- Branch in Tulsa 
Merrill Lynch, etc. -- Branch in Tulsa 
Lehman Brothers -- Branch in Houston 
Parker Bishop & Welsh -- Branch in Oklahoma City 
White Weld & Co. -- Branch in Dallas 
Witter (Dean) -- New York City 
Your cooperation in this matter is appreciated. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures 

.•'ofCow-V. 
••f^uTf.sf;-' 
3G IB 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
D P ' 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 6 
12/24/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
CI Q R R E S P • N O E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
H O A R D 
December 28, 1970 
Mr. Robert E. Moody, Jr. 
Senior Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30303 
Dear Bob: 
This is to confirm our telephone conversation of this 
morning regarding the type of vault construction for the temporary 
Miami facility. 
y 
The proposed vault construction, consisting of 18-inch 
thick concrete walls, using three girds of 5/8 inch diameter 
steel reinforcing bars, spaced 4 inches on center each way 
with a 10-inch vault door (meeting vault construction specifica-
tions of the Insurance Rating Board), was approved by the Board 
on December 24, 1970. During the discussion on this matter • 
the Board was assured that other aspects of protection would be 
upgraded to offset the risks associated with the sub-standard 
vault. 
In view of this decision, it would be appreciated if 
plans and associated specifications, showing in detail the protec-
tion facilities proposed for the new structure, were submitted 
for review as soon as they are available. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) James A. Mcintosh 
James A. Mcintosh 
Assistant Director 

12/24/70 
B D A R D • F G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 24, 1970 
Mr. Martin W. Bergin, Secretary 
Retirement System of the 
Federal Reserve Banks 
33 Liberty Street 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
In response to your letter of December 21, 1970, the 
Board of Governors approves the amended resolution of the Board 
of Trustees which amended Section 11. of the Retirement Plan to 
provide a 5 per cent supplement effective January 1, 1971, for 
Bank Plan Members (and beneficiaries) who retired prior to 
January 1, 1970, and who are at least 50 years old on January 1, 
1971, assuming it receives a favorable ruling by the District 
Director of Internal Revenue under Sections 401(a) and 501(a) of 
the Internal Revenue Code. 
The Board approved the amended resolution with the 
understanding that the Board of Trustees of the Retirement. System 
promptly reviews the concept of retirement allowance supplements, 
including formulating a continuing approach to the application of 
such supplements to retirees, and report to the Board of Governors 
as soon as possible. 
Very truly yours 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3 G 1 8 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 8 
12/24/70 
O F F I C E 
o r 
T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 24, 1970 
Mr. Wilfred II. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, I). C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Romine 1: 
I am writing in response to your request of 
December 24, 1970, for views and recommendations of the 
Board of Governors with respect to enrolled bill II.R. 19333, 
"To provide greater protection for customers of registered 
brokers and dealers and members of national securities 
exchanges," 
The Board favors Presidential approval of the 
bill. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
