MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 23, 1972 

760 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 23, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Br imme r 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 

761 
3/23/72 
-2-
Mr. Debs, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York 
Other appropriate members of the Board's staff 
also were present. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San Francisco on 
March 16 and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on March 20, 1972, of 
the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to these Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive factors in-
volved in the proposed merger of Potsdam Savings and Loan Association, 
Potsdam, New York, into The St. Lawrence County Savings Bank, Ogdensburg, 
New York. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Potsdam Savings and 
Loan Association into The St. Lawrence County Savings Bank, Ogdensburg, 
would eliminate competition presently existing between the two insti-
tutions. Further, it would eliminate an important source of mortgage 
finance and would increase the already high concentration of time and 
savings deposits held by the four largest financial institutions in 
the market. Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition would 
be adverse. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Ashland 
State Bank of Ashland, Ashland, Ohio, to merge The Ashland Bank and 
Savings Company, Ashland, Ohio, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. In a related action, the Board unanimously 
approved the application of The Ashland State Bank of Ashland for membership 

762 
3/23/72 
-2-
in the Federal Reserve System. Copies of the order and the letter sent 
to the applicant are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of CPC Interna-
tional, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, for an exemption from the 
prohibitions of section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act relating to 
nonbanking activities and acquisitions, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Financial 
Group, Inc., Janesville, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of The First National Bank and Peoples 
State Bank, both of Janesville, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Wyoming Bancor-
Poration, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to acquire shares of the following Wyoming 
1 
banks: The First National Bank of Rawlins, The First National Bank of 
Lander, and Stockmans National Bank of Lusk; and authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of BancOhio Cor-
poration, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
to The Central National Bank at Cambridge, Cambridge, Ohio, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 6. 

763 
3/23/72 
-4-
In a memorandum of March 15, 1972, the Legal Division referred 
to the application, as amended, of Colorado National Bankshares, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado, for a determination under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act regarding the planned activities of Aspen Industrial 
Bank, a proposed subsidiary. The Division recommended that an order be 
issued approving the amended application. The Board authorized issuance 
of the order, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 7. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Regulation T. On February 29, 1972, the Board considered various 
alternatives with respect to the applicability of Regulation T, Credit 
by Brokers and Dealers, to tax-shelter programs. Discussion failed to 
develop a consensus in favor of any of the alternatives, and the staff 
was asked to provide further analysis. Additional documentation had now 
been prepared and included a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
March 22 and a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
dated March 20. The Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Capital 
Markets Section recommended that an interpretation be issued stating the 
Board's conclusion that the present provisions of Regulation T forbid 
broker/dealers to sell tax-shelter programs with built-in instalment 
Payment features. A draft interpretation reflecting that recommendation 
was attached to the March 20 memorandum. 
Governor Maisel questioned the desirability of applying Regulation 
T to this area. He believed that applying Regulation T to tax-shelter 

764 
3/23/72 
-5-
programs would be more in the nature of regulating the structure of the 
market than regulating extension of credit for the purchase of securities. 
Furthermore, he thought that any action should be preceded by an oppor-
tunity for public comment. Consequently he favored publication for 
comment of a proposed regulatory amendment exempting broker/dealer sales 
of tax-shelter programs with built-in instalment payment features. 
Governor Sheehan noted that tax-shelter programs registered with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission were essentially similar to stocks 
subject to margin requirements, and that he was concerned with the growing 
volume of tax-shelter programs registered with the SEC. 
Governor Robertson took the position that the 1968 amendments 
to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 brought over-the-counter broker/ 
dealers under Regulation T, and he believed that this coverage extended 
to all their activities that are essentially similar to stock transactions. 
Governor Daane initially expressed the view that the Board's 
understanding was not sufficiently firm to issue an interpretation. If 
a proposed amendment were issued for comment, the public response might 
be helpful in crystallizing the Board's thinking. 
After further discussion the Board approved issuance of the inter-
pretation in the form attached as Item No. 8, Governor Maisel dissenting. 
Real estate brokerage as a permissible activity. Attached to a 
memorandum from the Banking Markets Section dated March 7, 1972, was a 
proposal by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis that real estate brokerage 

765 
3/23/72 
-2-
be included in the list of permissible activities under section 4(c)(8) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
In a memorandum dated March 20, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed the proposal. Both 
the Banking Markets Section and the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
concluded that real estate brokerage should not be included in the list of 
permissible activities. The Legal Division concurred. 
The Board expressed agreement with the staff conclusion. 
Boatmen's Banc shares. The proposal that real estate brokerage be 
included in the list of permissible activities had been submitted in 
connection with an application of Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, 
Missouri, to acquire Williams, Kurrus and Co., St. Louis, a mortgage 
company. 
In memoranda dated December 29, 1971, and March 7, 1972, 
respectively, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking 
Markets Section recommended approval of the application, subject to 
Williams, Kurrus and Co. discontinuing its real estate brokerage activities. 
The Board unanimously approved the application, subject to termi-
nation of real estate brokerage activities by Williams, Kurrus and Co., 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision (copy attached 
a s Item No. 9). It was understood that the mortgage company would be 
given a reasonable amount of time to terminate its real estate brokerage 
activities, and that details of timing would be resolved with the St. Louis 
Reserve Bank. 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation. The Board 
unanimously approved the application of First National City Overseas 

766 
3/23/72 
-2-
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Citicorp 
Insurance Agency, Inc., Makati, Rizal, Philippines. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 10. 
Savannah Bank & Trust Company. The Board unanimously approved 
the application of Savannah Bank & Trust Company of Savannah, Savannah, 
Georgia, to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of Chatham 
Savings Bank, Savannah. It was understood that an order reflecting this 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, and that the 
order would indicate that in the Board's judgment banking factors outweighed 
any adverse competitive effects of the transaction. 
Government securities market. Members of the Board had been 
furnished two related memoranda dated March 21, 1972, one from Mr. Frederic 
Solomon regarding a proposal by the Securities and Exchange Commission for 
legislation that would authorize it to regulate transfer agents, and another 
in which Mr. Richard A. Debs of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York out-
lined the development and status of the Federal Reserve-Treasury program 
for the automation of the Government securities market, including the 
book-entry procedure for Government securities. 
(Copies of the memoranda 
have been placed in the Board's files.) 
At today's meeting Mr. Debs commented in supplementation of his 
memorandum. 
Mr. Debs then withdrew, as did all members of the Board's staff 
except Messrs. Holland, Smith, Molony, Coyne, O'Brien, Bryant, Hart, 
and Kakalec. 

9 
3/23/72 
-2-
Audit of Board's books. The Office of the Controller had 
distributed with a memorandum dated March 7, 1972, documents entitled 
(1) Financial Statements for the Year Ended December 31, 1971, and Report 
Thereon, and (2) Report on Scope of Examination of Financial Statements 
for the Year Ended December 31, 1971, both submitted by Lybrand, Ross 
Bros. & Montgomery following that firm's audit of the Board's accounts 
for the year 1971. 
The reports were accepted, and it was understood that the first 
document would be included in the Board's Annual Report for 1971 and that 
copies of both documents would be transmitted to the Chairmen of the Senate 
and House Banking Committees. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to 
the Chairman of the Senate Committee is attached as Item No. 11. 
Budget performance report. There had been distributed under 
date of March 14, 1972, a report from the Office of the Controller reviewing 
Performance under the Board's budget for the year 1971. 
The report was accepted. 
It was noted that all 1971 Division 
expenditures had been approved by the Board or under delegated authority, 
with the exception of items totaling $4,620. Acceptance of the budget 
Performance report constituted approval of these overexpenditures. 
Foreign travel. In a memorandum dated March 8, 1972, the Board's 
Committee on Travel (Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, and Daane, Chairman) 
reviewed the 1972 foreign travel programs of the various Federal Reserve 
Banks, and with a few exceptions, recommended that the Board interpose 
no objection to the plans as submitted. 

768 
3/23/72 
-2-
At today's meeting the Board delegated full authority to the 
Travel Committee to act on behalf of the Board on all questions of foreign 
travel. This action superseded the partial delegation of authority with 
respect to Reserve Bank foreign travel approved by the Board at its 
meeting of February 17, 1972. 
(Note: Attached under Item No. 12 are copies of letters sent 
to the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Chicago, and Dallas reflecting 
the Committee's action with respect to their foreign travel plans. 
Attached as Item No. 13 is a copy of a letter sent to the Chairmen and 
Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks relating to the coordination of 
foreign travel by System personnel.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
V 

769 
Item No. 
7 
3/23/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE ASHLAND STATE BANK OF ASHLAND 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
The Ashland State Bank of Ashland, Ashland, Ohio, a 
nonoperating proposed member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
has applied for the Board's approval pursuant to the Bank Merger Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) of the merger of that bank with The Ashland Bank 
& Savings Company, Ashland, Ohio ("Bank"), under the charter of the 
former and the name of the latter. As an incident to the merger, the 
Present branch of The Ashland Bank & Savings Company will continue as 
a branch of the resulting bank. The bank into which Bank is to be 
Merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acqui-
sition of the voting shares of Bank by First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., 
Columbus, Ohio. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in 
form approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has re-
quested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, the 
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration. The Board has considered all material contained in the record 
in the light of the factors set forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized in the Board's Order of January 25, 1972, 
^proving the application of First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., to acquire 
per cent of the voting shares of the successor by merger to The 

770 
- 2 — 
Ashland Bank & Savings Company, Ashland, Ohio, provided that said 
merger shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
March 23, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Da a
V° t i n 8 f 0 r t h l a a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
ne, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
P e r n o r Mitchell. 
6 
/ 

K r e ^ V 
B D A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
771 
Item No. 7 
3/23/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1972 
Board of Directors 
The Ashland State Bank of Ashland 
Ashland, Ohio 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of The Ashland State Bank of Ashland, for 
stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the under-
standing that The Ashland State Bank of Ashland will not conduct a 
banking business with the public until it has merged with The Ashland 
Bank & Savings Company, Ashland, Ohio. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of member-
ship, particular attention is called to the provisions of the 
Board's Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking 
institutions in the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference 
to Section 208.7 thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

772 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied 
with and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a 
formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
<M/ 
Michael A. Greenspl 
Assistant Secretary 
Enclosure 

Item No. 8 
3/23/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CPC INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
Order Approving Exemption of Nonbanking Activities 
of Bank Holding Company 
CPC International, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841), by virtue of ownership of more than 
per cent of the voting shares of Argo State Bank, Summit, Illinois 
("Bank"), has applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to § 4(d) 
°f the Act, for an exemption from the prohibitions of § 4 (relating 
to nonbanking activities and acquisitions). 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 5, 1972 (37 Federal Register 117). Time 
for filing comments and views has expired. 
Section 4(d) of the Act provides that to the extent such 
action would not be substantially at variance with the purposes of 
the Act and subject to such conditions as the Board considers 
Necessary to protect the public interest, the Board may grant an 
exemption from the provisions of § 4 of the Act to certain one-bank 
folding companies in order (1) to avoid disrupting business relation-
ships that have existed over a long period of years without adversely 
affecting the banks or communities involved, or (2) to avoid forced 
sales of small locally owned banks to purchasers not similarly 
Representative of community interests, or (3) to allow retention of 

774 
-2-
I 
I 
banks that are so small in relation t6 the holding company's total 
Interests and so small in relation to the banking market to be 
served as to minimize the likelihood that the bank's powers to grant 
or deny credit may be influenced by a desire to further the holding 
company's other interests. 
The Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in the light of the factors set forth in § 4(d) of the Act 
and finds that: 
CPC International is a diversified multinational manufac-
turing company with assets in excess of $1 billion. Applicant s 
largest plant, currently employing 2,800 people, has been located in 
Bedford 
Park, a community adjoining Summit, Illinois, since the 
beginning of the century. The record shows that predecessors of 
Applicant began acquiring shares of Bank's common stock, and below 
standard investments from Bank's portfolio in 1931, in a successful 
ef£ort to prevent Bank from failing; at that time, Bank was the only 
inking organization in Summit and, apparently because over 1,000 
employees of Applicant were depositors of Bank, Applicant decided to 
aQ8ist Bank in overcoming its problems. Continued purchases resulted 
Applicant's becoming the majority shareholder shortly thereafter. 
An ownership interest in excess of 90 per cent was attained by 1936 
has been maintained to the present date. It appears that Bank 
well managed and in sound financial condition and the record 
e°ntains nothing to suggest that Applicant has abused its relationship 

wlth Bank or misused Bank's sdWifcefc for the benefit of Applicant's 
°ther interests; There is no reason to believe that permitting 
this 
relationship to continue indefinitely will adversely affect 
Bank or the communities involved. 
Bank's total assets ($30 million) at year-end 1970 were 
about 3 per cent of Applicant's consolidated assets and Bank's 
earnings represent less than 1 per cent of Applicant's 1970 net 
income. It appears that CPC has never borrowed from Bank and there 
been no preferential treatment of CPC's suppliers; and the 
s®all size of Bank in relation to the credit needs of CPC makes it 
U nHkely that CPC would use Bank unfairly to further other interests 
CPC. Summit is economically a part of the Chicago metropolitan 
area. Bank competes with the many other banks in the Chicago 
inking 
market and controls 0.1 per cent of the total deposits in 
that market as of June 30, 1971. 
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
the record, the Board has concluded, pursuant to § 4(d)(1), that 
a n exemption is warranted to avoid disrupting a business relation-
that has existed over a long period of years without adversely 
a^fecting the banks or communities involved; and pursuant to 
that Bank is so small in relation to the total interests 
Applicant and so small in relation to the banking market served 
Bank as to minimize the likelihood that Bank's powers to grant 
0 t deny credit may be influenced by a desire to further CPC's other 

interests. Accordingly, an exemption is granted; provided, however, 
that this determination is subject to revocation if the facts upon 
which it is based change in any material respect. 
By order of the Board of Governors,—^ March 23, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Mitchell. 

777 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/23/72 
nS'- . 
; ' 
I V 
FIRST FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
First Financial Group, Inc., Janesville, Wisconsin, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding 
company through acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The First National Bank ("First Bank") and Peoples State 
Bank ("Peoples Bank"), both of Janesville, Wisconsin. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant is a newly-formed organization and has no 
derating history. Upon acquisition of First Bank ($36 million in 
dePosits) and Peoples Bank ($3 million in deposits), Applicant would 
become the 19th largest bank holding company and the 20th largest 
bai*king organization in the State and would control about 0.4 per 
Cer*t of the commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking data 
A y * . 
as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company formations and 
Acquisitions approved through February 29, 1972.) 
Both of the proposed subsidiary banks are located in 
Janesville, a city of 46,000 in Rock County, Wisconsin. There are 

778 
-2-
six banks in Janesville representing three banking groups, each of 
which has two closely related banks, Applicant's group is the 
second largest as the two other groups have deposits of $56 million 
and $29 million, respectively. First Bank, Applicant's lead bank, 
is located in the downtown business section of the city. Peoples 
Bank is located in a shopping center in the western part of 
Janesville, approximately 1.3 miles from First Bank. The area 
served by First Bank includes practically the entire city of 
Janesville, and encompasses the service area of Peoples Bank. First 
Bank and Peoples Bank are, respectively, the second largest and 
smallest of the six Janesville banks and the fourth and sixteenth 
largest of 18 banks in Rock County, the relevant market. 
The two proposed subsidiary banks have been closely assoc-
iated since Peoples Bank was organized by the principal officers 
and directors of First Bank in 1969. First Bank has assisted 
Copies Bank during the entire period of Peoples Bank's operations. 
Presently, shareholders common to both banks control 54 per cent of 
^irst Bank and 66 per cent of Peoples Bank. Additionally, there 
a r e eight common directors, representing more than a majority of 
either bank's board of directors. Because of this close relation-
s^ip, no meaningful competition exists between the subject banks, 
and it appears likely that such relationships will continue regard-
*ess of the Board's action on the present application. On the 

basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would not have a significantly adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. Nor is consuomation 
Hkely to have any significant adverse effects on Bank's competitors. 
Applicant proposes to assist Peoples Bank, through its 
bank, in the technical aspects of lending, data processing, 
^ust services, marketing, accounting, and auditing. While some of 
th*se services are already being furnished, approval of this forma-
tion would assure the continuation of present services and the 
Edition of improved and expanded services in the future. Considera-
tions relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to 
b e served lend some weight toward approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial 
Sources and future prospects as they relate to Applicant and its 
Pr°Posed subsidiaries are regarded as generally satisfactory and 
d i s t e n t with approval. Banking factors are consistent with 
approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
°ul<i be in the public interest and that the application should be 
^Proved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f o 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
Animated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 

date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ March 23, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Mitchell. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WYOMING BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Wyoming Bancorporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, has applied 
for Board approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act (12 U.S.C. 18451(a) (3)) to acquire 59.5 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of The First National Bank of Rawlins ("Rawlins 
Bank"), Rawlins, Wyoming, 58.4 per cent or more of the voting shares 
°f The First National Bank of Lacider ("Lander Bank"), Lander, Wyoming, 
and 84 per cent or more of the voting shares of Stockmans National 
Bank of Lusk ("Lusk Bank"), Lusk, Wyoming. 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the applications 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest banking organization in 
%oming, 
controls five banks with aggregate deposits of $45.4 million, 
^presenting 5.4 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding com-
pany formations and acquisitions approved through February 29, 1972.) 
•pi 
n e largest and second largest banking organizations in Wyoming 
c°ntrol 15 per cent and 8.9 per cent, respectively, of the State's 
total commercial bank deposits. However, Applicant is the only 
multi~bank holding company, at present, which is allowed by law to 
Item No. 8 
3/23/72 

-2-
782 
acquire additional banking subsidiaries in Wyoming. Rawlins Bank, 
Lander Bank, and Lusk Bank control, respectively, $16.9, $12.4, 
and $6.6 million of deposits. Upon consummation of the proposal, 
Applicant would become the second largest banking organization in 
the State, holding 9.7 per cent of total deposits in Wyoming. 
Rawlins Bank is the largest of the three banks located 
in its service area, which is approximated by Carbon County and 
a portion of Sweetwater County, and holds 47.5 per cent of the 
total deposits in commercial banks in that area. Lander Bank is 
the second largest of the five banks located in its service area, 
approximated by Fremont County. Lander Bank holds 24.5 per cent 
°f the total deposits in commercial banks in that area. Lusk 
Bank is the fourth largest of the eight banks located in its 
service area, holding 12.2 per cent of the total deposits in com-
mercial banks in that area which is approximated by Niobrara 
County and portions of Converse, Goshen, and Platte Counties in 
Wyoming, and a portion of Sioux County in Nebraska. 
No proposed subsidiary bank is closer than 126 miles 
to any other proposed subsidiary bank, and none is closer than 90 
miles to any of Applicant's present subsidiaries. There is no mean-
ingful existing competition between the proposed subsidiary banks, 
between any of Applicant's present subsidiaries and the proposed 
subsidiaries. It also appears unlikely that consummation of this 
Proposal would preclude potential competition because of the distances 
involved, the number of intervening banks, and Wyoming's prohibition 

I J 
"3-
783 
against branch banking, Based on the foregoing, and the record 
before it, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
transactions would not have an adverse effect on competition in 
any relevant market. 
In 1970, Applicant acquired indirect control of the three 
Proposed subsidiary banks through Enterprises Limited, a partnership 
comprised of certain of Applicant's officers, directors, and share-
holders. Applicant has indicated that should any of these applica-
tions be denied, the partnership would sell the respective bank to 
independent parties. However, strong competition exists in each 
banking market of the proposed subsidiaries. No significant adverse 
competitive effects would result from consummation of the proposal. 
Approval of the application would formalize the present relation-
ship and perpetuate Applicant's assistance to the banks. Both 
bawling Bank and Lander Bank have been assisted by Applicant in 
r^solving management and capital adequacy problems; approval of 
the application will enable Applicant to give continued needed 
8uPP0rt to each Bank, 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
^sources and future prospects of Applicant and Lusk Bank are 
8atisfactory, The future prospects of Lander Bank and Rawlins 
are considered satisfactory. Convenience and needs con-
cations lend support to approval in that Applicant plans 
• t 
sid 

-2-
784 
to initiate trust services at Lusk Bank and Lander Bank and increase 
the trust services at Rawlins Banlc. In addition Applicant intends 
to supply an overline source for large agricultural transactions. 
These factors lend some weight toward approval of the applications. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed trans-
itions would be in the public interest, and that the applications 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
^ate of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
o f this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
tlle Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 11 March 23, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
aane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor 
^tchell. 

785 
Item No. 
7 
3/23/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) of the 
voting shares of the successor by merger to The Central National Bank 
at Cambridge, Cambridge, Ohio ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a means of acquiring the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organization 
is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank, 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
at*d all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company and second 
largest banking organization in Ohio, has 31 subsidiary banks con-
lolling deposits in excess of $1.6 billion, representing 7.4 per 
Cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved through February 29, 1972,) Consummation 

-2-
28 
of the proposal herein would increase the percentage of total State 
deposits controlled by Applicant slightly to 7.5 per cent and Appli-
cant would remain the State's second largest banking organization. 
Bank, with deposits of $26.7 million, holds 41,9 per cent 
of deposits within Guernsey County which approximates the relevant 
market within which the competitive aspects of the proposal are to 
be considered. Bank is the second largest of three banks within the 
market; the largest bank is affiliated with the fifth largest bank 
holding company in the State, while the smallest bank, located 19 
miles from Cambridge, is unaffiliated. The acquisition should intensify 
competition between the two Cambridge banks which .are comparable in 
size without adversely affecting the smallest bank which has shown 
itself to be an aggressive competitor. Although Applicant has sub-
sidiary banks in four of the six counties adjacent to Guernsey 
County, the nearest office of a subsidiary to an office of Bank is 
20 miles away and there is no significant competition between Bank 
and any subsidiary of Applicant. Because of the distances involved, 
Ohio's restrictive branching laws, and other facts of record, it is 
considered unlikely that meaningful future competition will develop 
between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries. Therefore, it would appear 
fchat approval of the application would not eliminate significant present 
competition or potential competition. Accordingly, the Board concludes 
that competitive considerations are consistent with approval. 

787 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant and its subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory. The 
latest examination of Bank indicates that it is in sound condition, 
but the application indicates that a management succession problem 
exists. Since Applicant could readily resolve such a problem, banking 
factors lend some weight toward approval. 
Applicant, through its lead bank, would make available inter-
national banking services and FHA mortgage loans, neither of which 
is presently available locally. The affiliation would also facilitate 
larger loans by the Bank through participations and would increase 
access to computer services. Thus, considerations related to the con-
venience and needs of the communities involved also lend some weight 
toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction 
would be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be con-
sutrmated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
March 23, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns, and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor 
Mitchell, 

788 
Item No. 7 
3/23/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
COLORADO NATIONAL BANKSHARES, INC. 
Determination Regarding Planned Activities of 
Nanbanking Subsidiary under Bank Holding Company Act 
In the matter of the application of Colorado National 
Bankshares, Inc., for a determination under § 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, respecting the planned activities of 
B-G Service Corp. and Aspen Industrial Bank, proposed subsidiaries. 
Applicant, Colorado National Bankshares, Inc., Denver, 
Colorado, a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, had filed a request for a determination 
the Board of Governors that the planned activities of its proposed 
8ubsidiaries, B-G Service Corp. and Aspen Industrial Bank, are of the 
kl>nd described in § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) so as 
t o make it unnecessary for the prohibitions of § 4 of the Act with 
tegard to the acquisition or retention of shares in nonbanking organ-
nations to apply in order to carry out the purposes of the Act. 
The application was filed prior to the passage of the Bank 
Elding Company Act Amendments of 1970. In accordance with applicable 
Proviatons of the Act prior to the passage of the 1970 Amendments, a 
baring was held on this matter on December 1, 1970, pursuant to an 
Otd 
of the Board of Governors, before a hearing examiner selected 
the Civil Service Commission pursuant to § 3344 of Title 5 of the 
Ur*ited States Code. The record made at said hearing was duly filed with 

789 
-2-
the Board. Inasmuch as § 4(c)(8) of the Act, as amended, is controlling 
with respect to the issues to be determined in this matter, on April 29, 
1971, the Board issued a notice of opportunity for hearing in this matter 
pursuant to § 4(c)(8), as amended. Requests for hearing were made by 
letters dated May 18, 1971, by the National Association of Insurance 
Agents, Inc., and the National Association of Mutual Insurance Agents. 
By letter dated November 2, 1971, Applicant moved to amend its original 
application, stating that B-G Service Corp. will cease doing business 
and be liquidated upon its acquisition and that Applicant sought only 
a determination by the Board that the activities of Aspen Industrial 
Bank are of the kind described in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. By letters 
dated November 9 and November 13, 1971, respectively, the proposed 
intervenors withdrew their request for a further hearing. On 
December 16, 1971, Hearing Examiner Poindexter filed his recommended 
decision, a copy of which is annexed hereto,^ wherein he recommended 
that the Board make the requested determination. The time for filing 
exceptions to the recommended decision has expired and none have been 
filed. The findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommendations 
of the Hearing Examiner are adopted, and, on the basis of the entire 
record, 
1/ Filed as part of the original document. Copies available upon request 
to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
D. C. 20551, or to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 

3 i 
• 
730 
It is hereby ordered, That the planned activities of the 
proposed subsidiary, Aspen Industrial Bank, are determined to be so 
closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be 
a proper incident thereto. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
March 23, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(SEAL) 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
2/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
°aane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Mitchell, 
•! 
v 
••••'.: . - a 
m 

Item No. 8 
3/23/72 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. T] 
PART 220 - CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
Instalment sale of tax-shelter programs 
§ 220.124 Instalment sale of tax-shelter programs as 
"arranging" for credit, 
(a) The Board has been asked whether the sale by brokers 
and dealers of tax-shelter programs containing a provision that 
payment for the program may be made in instalments would constitute 
"arranging" for credit in violation of Part 220. For the purposes 
of this interpretation, the term "tax-shelter program" means a pro-
gram which is required to be registered pursuant to section 5 of 
the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. § 77e), in which tax benefits, 
such as the ability to deduct substantial amounts of depreciation 
or oil exploration expenses, are made available to a person invest-
ing in the program. The programs may take various legal forms and 
can relate to a variety of industries including, but not limited to, 
oil and gas exploration programs, real estate syndications (except 
real estate investment trusts), citrus grove developments and cattle 
programs. 
(b) The most common type of tax-shelter program takes the 
form of a limited partnership. In the case of the programs under 
consideration, the investor would commit himself to purchase and 

732 
- 2 -
the partnership would commit itself to sell the interests. The 
investor would be entitled to the benefits, and become subject 
to the risks of ownership at the time the contract is made, although 
the full purchase price is not then required to be paid. The balance 
the purchase price after the down payment usually is payable in 
instalmcnts which range from one to ten years depending on the program. 
Thus, the partnership would be extending credit to the purchaser until 
the time when the latter's contractual obligation has been fulfilled 
and the final payment made. 
(c) With an exception not applicable here, § 220.7(a) of 
Regulation T provides that: 
"A creditor [broker or dealer] may arrange 
for the extension or maintenance of credit 
to or for any customer of such creditor by 
any person upon the same terras and conditions 
as those upon which the creditor, under the 
provisions of this part, may himself extend 
or maintain such credit to such customer, 
but only such terms and conditions 
(emphasis supplied) . . . " 
(d) In the case of credit for the purpose of purchasing 
°r carrying securities (purpose credit), § 220.8 of the regulation 
(the Supplement to Regulation T) does not permit any loan value to 
given securities that are not registered on a national securities 
exchange, included on the Board's OTC Margin List, or exempted by 
8tatute from the regulation. 
(e) The courts have consistently held investment programs 
8uch as those described above to be "securities" for purpose of both 
the Securities Act of 1533 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

732 
- 2 -
The courts have also held that the two statutes are to be construed 
together. Tax-shelter programs, accordingly, are securities for 
purposes of Regulation T. They also are not registered on a national 
securities exchange, included on the Board's OTC Margin List, or 
exempted by statute from the regulation. 
(f) Accordingly, the Board concludes that the sale by a 
broker/dealer of tax-shelter programs containing a provision that 
payment for the program may be made in instalments would constitute 
"arranging" for the extension of credit to purchase or carry securi-
ties iri violation of the prohibitions of §§ 220.7(a) and 220.8 of 
Regulation T. 
(Interprets or applies 15 U.S^C. 78g(c)). 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 23, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
[SEAL] 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

?S4 
Item No. 9 
3/23/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BOATMEN'S BANCSHARES, INC, 
Order Approving Acquisition of Williams, Kurrus and Co. 
Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act 
1956, as amended, has applied for the Board's approval, under 
Action 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
*egulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of Williams, 
Kv*rrus and Co, ("Company"), St. Louis, Missouri. Notice of the 
aPplication affording opportunity for interested persons to submit 
c°ninients and views has expired and all received have been considered, 
Eluding those presented orally and in writing in connection with a 
B°ard hearing on November 8, 1971, pertaining to mortgage banking in 
general, and this application in particular. 
The operation by a bank holding company of a mortgage com-
is an activity that the Board has previously determined to be 
closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
^ bank holding company may acquire a company engaged in this activity 
accordance with the procedures the Board has established pursuant 
to § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant is the sixth largest bank holding company in 
Missouri. Applicant's principal subsidiary, Boatmen's National Bank 
St. Louis (deposits of $295.3 million)-^ is the sixth largest bank 

795 
-2-
in Missouri and is the third largest bank in the St. Louis Standard 
Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA") where the bank holds 4,9 per 
C e n t of deposits. In the St. Louis SMSA Applicant also controls 
three other banks with combined deposits of $54 million. Applicant's 
commercial bank subsidiaries originate and service a limited number 
°f long- term mortgage loans and interim construction loans exclusively 
for their own accounts. During 1970, Applicant's banks originated 20 
ioans on income producing properties which totalled $3.8 million. 
N°ne of Applicant's banks service mortgage portfolios for institutional 
investors. 
Company is a mortgage banking firm specializing in the 
°rigination and servicing of commercial and industrial mortgage loans 
the accounts of long-term investors. It does no mortgage 
c j dancing on new one - four family residences, nor does it normally 
Rehouse loans. On the basis of its mortgage servicing portfolio of 
$106 million,Company ranks fifth among mortgage companies located 
in i 
the St. Louis area, and 192nd in the nation. Five mortgage loans 
(totaling $16.2 million) on income producing property were originated 
Company during its last fiscal year ending March 1971. The record 
^erein evidences that neither Applicant nor Company have a significant 
a re of the market in mortgage lending on income producing properties -
e Only product market in which they compete. On this basis, 
C°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would have only a slightly 
v Data as of June 30, 1971. 

-3-
adverse effect on existing competition. Company's limited capital 
resources limit its potential as a competitor to Applicant in either 
the construction loan market or the market for permanent loans on 
one - four family residences. 
It is anticipated that Company's affiliation with Applicant 
vill enable Company to compete more effectively with the two largest 
mortgage banking firms in the St, Louis SMSA, both of which are 
af filiated with banks. Company will also be able to broaden the 
t^nge of its mortgage banking services through access to the resources 
°f Applicant, and thus offer better services to the public. On 
balance, the Board concludes that the public benefits factors the 
B°ard is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) outweigh any 
Possible adverse effects that might result from the proposed 
ac<luisition. 
In addition to its mortgage loan and servicing activity, 
y is 
broker; 
Co ®Pany is engaged and proposes to continue to engage in real estate 
:age. Real estate brokerage is not an activity that the Board 
determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or 
^trolling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Nor has Appli-
C a u t demonstrated to the Board's satisfaction that Applicant's 
activities in the real estate brokerage field are so closely related 
0 banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident 
ther eto. Accordingly, in the Board's judgment, approval of the 

737 
-4-
,• f; : 
' 
application herein is appropriate only >bti Condition that Company 
terminates its real estate brokerage activities. 
Based on the record herein, the application is approved on 
condition that Company terminates its real estate brokerage activities. 
This approval is subject further to the Board's authority to require 
reports by, and make examinations of, holding companies and their 
subsidiaries and to require such modification or termination of the 
activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes 
of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, 
or to prevent evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— March 23, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Noting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
ttaisel. Brimmer, and Sheehan, Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

xfiSTT , >0-1- • 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
738 
Item No. 10 
3/23/72 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
March 23, 1972 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gent levneri: 
As requested in your letter of December 23, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent to your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to purchase 
and ho Id 100 per cent of the shares of Citicorp Insurance Agency, Inc. 
("CIA"), Makati, Rizal, Philippines, at a cost of approximately $23,300, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of CIA by FNCOIC is granted subject to the condition that CIA 
confine its activities to acting as an agent or broker at any location 
in the Philippines for local Philippine insurers with respect to the 
types of insurance described in Section 225.4(^(9) (i) and Section 
225.4(a)(9)(ii) of Regulation Y. 
The Board's consent is also granted subject to the condition 
that CIA shall comply with the provisions of Sections 211.4 and 211.8 
of Regulation K and that, when required by the Board of Governors, 
FNCOIC vill furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activ-
ities of CIA as it may require from time to time and maintain at its 
head office all such information as is necessary for a proper evaluation 
of the activities of CIA by the Board's examiners. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
they apply to First National City Corporation and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 11 
3/23/72 ,739 
•pOfcow* 
B O A R D CDF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
O F F I C E OF T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 23, 1972 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing & 
Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D„ C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In accordance with the practice followed for the 
past several years, there are enclosed copies of the reports 
made by the firm of public accountants that audited the ac-
counts of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System for the year ended December 31, 1971. These include 
(1) Financial Statements and Report Thereon and (2) Report 
on Scope of Examination of Financial Statements. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosures 2 

SGG 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 12 
3/23/72 
A D D R E S S 
O r F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 28, 1972 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, the 
Committee on Travel interposes no objection to the 
proposed 1972 foreign travel program of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York submitted with your letter 
of February 10, 1972, subject to the modifications 
set forth in your letter of March 17 to Governor Daane. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

o f c o & 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R B 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 20551 
801 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
March 28, 1972 
Mr. Robert P. Mayo, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Dear Mr. Mayo: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, the 
Committee on Travel interposes no objection to your 
proposed visit this fall to Japan, as described in 
your Bank's response to the wire of November 8, 1971, 
that requested information on estimated foreign travel 
during 1972, and also as discussed in your telephone 
conversation with Governor Daane on March 9, 1972. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

yp Cow! •. 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D O A R D 
March 28, 1972 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, the 
Committee on Travel interposes no objection to your 
proposed visits to Mexico, Peru, Brazil, and Venezuela, 
in connection with your participation in the Conference 
of Central Bank Governors of the Western Hemisphere in 
Trinidad and Tabago, as described in your letter of 
March 7, 1972, to Governor Daane. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Mr. Coldwell was subsequently advised that there 
would be no objection to his substituting a visit 
to Colombia instead of Mexico. 

. • V o O F C G i : - . . 
B D A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N G R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No 803 
3/23/72 
S-2192 
A D D H E S S 
D r r i C I A L 
C D R R C S P O N D E N C E 
TO 
THE 
B D A R D 
March 28, 1972 
The Board of Governors has long considered it important to 
coordinate all foreign official travel to insure the maximization of 
benefits that may accrue to the System from visits to foreign central 
banks and to coordinate the composition and timing of Federal Reserve 
delegations when foreign travel involves participation in interna-
tional meetings. Until last year Board coordination of foreign travel 
extended only to travel by officers and staff of the New York Bank and 
to travel by members of the Board and its staff. However, the extent 
of travel abroad by personnel of the other Federal Reserve Banks has 
grown considerably in recent years. 
The Board has established a Committee on Travel, presently 
composed of Governors Daane, Brimmer and Sheehan, to improve the 
coordination of travel abroad by officers and staff of the entire 
System. This Committee last autumn instituted a procedure for review-
ing each year the foreign official travel plans of Federal Reserve 
Bank personnel. As a first step in this procedure, the Federal Reserve 
Banks were asked to supply the Travel Committee with information con-
cerning foreign travel to be performed during 1972, including details 
°n the timing and the objectives of the travel. 
In the course of this review, it has come to the attention 
of the Travel Committee and the Board that visits abroad by staff of 
certain Federal Reserve Banks, at the request of other central banks 
°r at the Reserve Bank's own initiative, have in some instances not 
been cleared in advance with the Board. We ask you to remind your 
staff that advance approval should be sought from the Board for all 
foreign official travel. If the planned foreign trip has not been 
included in the annual foreign travel forecast presented each autumn 
to the Committee on Travel and approved by the Board, you are requested 
to inform the Committee in order to obtain Board approval before 
completing the arrangements for this travel,, 

804 
-2-
The Board has also reviewed the policy and the procedures to 
be followed when Federal Reserve Banks receive requests for technical 
assistance from U.S. Government agencies or foreign central banks 
involving the services of Federal Reserve personnel. As you know, 
this policy and the procedures to be followed in compliance with the 
policy, as set forth in the Board's letters of June 15, 1949 (S-1113, 
F.R.L.S. 200,15) and August 2, 1950 (S-1133, F,R.L„S. 200.16), require 
Federal Reserve Banks to notify the Board of Governors promptly of 
such requests and obtain Board clcarance before taking final action on 
them. The Board calls to your attention that these procedures remain 
In effect and suggests your continued observance through notification 
to the Secretary of the Board. 
(Banks, branches, and Chairmen 
of all Federal Reserve Banks) 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND THE VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 
AND THE CHAIRMEN OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Very truly yours, 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
