MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 11, 19 72 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
0ri Friday, February 11, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 
iOiOO a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, 
Office of Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mri Kakalec, Controller-
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Miss Wolcott and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical 
Assistants, Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members 
1/ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

350 
2/11/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board authorized the issuance of an order 
reflecting approval on January 27, 1972, of the application of First 
Tulsa Bancorporation, Inc., Tulsa, Oklahoma, to acquire shares of South-
eastern State Bank, Tulsa, Oklahoma. Copies of the order and the 
dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer are attached 
under Item No. 1. A copy of the letter to First Tulsa Bancorporation 
making a preliminary determination of control is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved (1) the application of First 
Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, to acquire shares 
°f the successor by merger to Schoolfield Bank & Trust Company, Danville, 
Virginia; (2) the application of Citizens Bank of Schoolfield, Danville, 
Virginia, an organizing State bank, to merge Schoolfield Bank & Trust 
Company; and (3) the application of Citizens Bank of Schoolfield for 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. The Board also authorized 
t h e issuance of orders reflecting approval of the holding company and 
merger applications. Copies of the orders are attached as Items 3 and 4, 
and a copy of the letter approving the membership application is attached 
a S H e m No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Quarterly report on financial developments. With a memorandum 
dafced February 9, 1972, Mr. Partee had submitted a proposed report on 
financial developments in the fourth quarter of 1971, for transmittal 
t o the Joint Economic Committee. 

35± 
2/11/72 
-3-
Following discussion during which shifts in emphasis and 
amplification of certain points were suggested, the Board unanimously 
a£]Jroved the report for transmittal, with the understanding that any 
further suggestions for changes would be submitted to Mr. Partee. 
A copy of the report in the form sent to the Committee has 
been placed in the Board's files; a copy of the transmittal letter is 
attached as Item No, 6. 
Reduction of 1972 Board budget. At its meeting on December 20, 
1971, the Board approved an operating budget of $26 million for 1972, 
and instructed the staff to reduce the proposed 1972 operating budget 
o f $26.5 million within the approved limit. In a memorandum dated 
February 4, 1972/«Mr. Kakalec outlined reductions that had been made 
in coordination with Division Directors and recommended approval of 
a revised total of $25.93 million. 
The Board unanimously approved the revised 1972 operating 
budget. A copy of Mr. Kakalec's memorandum is attached as Item No. 7. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting at this point. 
Real estate lending by national banks. Senator Brooke had 
requested the Board's views on proposed amendments to section 24 of 
the Federal Reserve Act regarding real estate loans by national banks. 
The draft bill would be offered as an amendment to omnibus housing 
legislation under consideration by the Senate Committee on Banking, 
housing, and Urban Affairs. 

35± 
2/11/72 
-3-
In a memorandum dated February 10, 1972, the Division of 
Research and Statistics summarized the principal changes that would 
affect real estate lending by national banks and commented on the more 
controversial provisions of the draft bill. Attached to the memorandum 
was a proposed reply that would endorse the general objectives of the 
bill but recommend that close supervisory scrutiny should be maintained 
°ver new or liberalized practices. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum dated February 10, 1972, 
concluded that the proposed amendments were legally sound. In addition, 
the Division suggested that the reply to Senator Brooke should include 
a recommendation for the addition of a provision under which real 
estate loans would be eligible as collateral for advances from the 
Federal Reserve Banks at the* basic lending rate, t At present, home 
mortgages are eligible for advances from the Federal Reserve Banks 
but at a "penalty" rate one-half point higher than the basic lending 
rate. 
During discussion comments indicated general accord with the 
°bjectives of the legislation. There was agreement that, within 
reasonable bounds of safety, it would be appropriate to provide national 
banks with the flexibility to compete with other lending institutions in 
the area of mortgage credit. It was also the consensus that administra-
tive safeguards should be established against possible abuses, and it 
Would be desirable to accomplish this by means of regulation rather 

35± 
2/11/72 
-3-
than by legislation. Further, it was agreed that, rather than amending 
the present statute, it would be preferable to repeal the entire 
section 24 and substitute therefor broad statutory framework within 
which the Comptroller of the Currency would be empowered to prescribe 
regulations for the control of real estate lending by national banks. 
Further discussion developed majority support for the recommenda-
tion of the Legal Division that Senator Brooke be requested to incorporate 
as part of his proposal a provision relating to the eligibility of real 
estate loans as collateral for advances. However, Governor Robertson 
indicated that he was philosophically opposed to inclusion of extraneous 
Proposals in an omnibus bill as a means of achieving desired legislation. 
It being understood that the letter to Senator Brooke would be 
revised in light of the discussion, unanimous approval was then given 
to its transmittal. A copy of the letter in the form subsequently sent 
to Senator Brooke is attached as Item No. 8. 
Draft bill to regulate transfer agents. The Securities and 
^change Commission had requested the Board's comments on a revised 
draft of a bill to regulate transfer agents, which would give to the 
SEC full authority to (1) require registration with it of transfer 
agents (but not to suspend such registration), (2) regulate the trans-
fer agency function, and (3) require record-keeping and reports by 
transfer agents and to examine such agents. Banks would be treated 
the same as other transfer agents with certain exceptions. In a 

354 
T 
•v. V f 
2/11/72 
-6-
^emorandum dated February 8, 1972, Mr. Solomon discussed several aspects 
°f the draft bill and sought the Board's views regarding the proposal. 
During discussion comments indicated general support for the 
objectives of the proposal. However, it was the consensus that, in 
fche interest of uniformity, regulations should be prescribed by the 
SEC, but only after consultation with the supervisory agencies concerned, 
There was also agreement that the examination function as related to 
hanks should be retained by the supervisory agencies. Another sugges-
tion was that it would be helpful to obtain the views of commercial 
hankers regarding problems involved. 
It was understood that the staff would undertake further discus-
sions in light of comments at today's meeting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Hn+i 

355 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/11/72 
FIRST TULSA BANCORPORATION, INC, 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank Stock 
First Tulsa Bancorporation, Inc., Tulsa, Oklahoma, a 
b a n k holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Com-
par*y Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)) to acquire 14.5 per cent of the 
Voting shares of Southeastern State Bank, Tulsa, Oklahoma ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
acc°rdance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
Sj. J 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f ^ e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that! 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company and the third 
Seat banking organization in Oklahoma, controls one bank, The 
s t National Bank and Trust Company of Tulsa, with deposits of 
million, representing 7.0 per cent of the total commercial 
arik deposits in the State and maintains close relationships with 
tVo 
suburban Tulsa banks, Admiral State Bank and Community State 
• Both suburban banks are controlled by majority shareholders 
f APPlicant and together hold 3.2 per cent of the commercial bank 
p°sits in the Tulsa banking market 
(approximated by Tulsa County 
Portions of Creek and Rogers Counties). (All banking data are 
June 30, 1971.) Upon consummation of the proposal herein, 
Ppli 
Want's share of deposits in the State would increase only 
i g h t ly, and its position relative to the State's other banking 
fixations would remain unchanged. 

- 2 -
356 
Bank ($8.2 million deposits), one of the smaller banks 
in the Tulsa banking market, is the smallest of 9 banks in its 
Primary service area, which is approximated by a 30 square mile 
a r ea in southeast Tulsa, Neither Admiral State Bank, nor Community 
State Bank compete in the service area of Bank. Applicant's lead 
baalci the largest bank in Tulsa, is located downtown, eight miles 
fr 
Bank, and its service area fully encompasses that of Bank. 
^°vever, there is no meaningful competition between Bank and 
applicant's subsidiary bank because shareholders owning 55 per 
C e n t of Applicant's stock control approximately 71.3 per cent of 
Baftk's stock. This close relationship has existed since Bank's 
in 1968, and it appears that the relationship would 
Cot*tinue to exist regardless of the Board's action on the present 
Plication. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes 
^at consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
a*^ect competition in any relevant area. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial 
Sources and prospects as they relate to Applicant, its sub-
and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval 
of 
application although the major banking needs of Bank's ser-
vic_ 
c area are presently being met. Applicant will continue to 
*Ssist Bank in its credit analysis, investment policies, data 
cessirig services and loan participations. Thus, considerations 
to the convenience and needs are consistent with approval. 
It 4 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be 
public interest, and that the application should be approved. 

357 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
d a t e °f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,February 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
t h i s a c t i- o n : 
Chairman Burns, and Governors Daane, Maisel, 
Abs
 
ellan* Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
Ut arid not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
Applicant, through its control of the largest bank in 
h® Tulsa banking market, indirectly holds 30.7 per cent of the 
c°nunercial bank deposits in that market. That market is relatively 
concentrated, the two largest banks holding 56.9 per cent of com-
mercial bank deposits therein. Although Bank apparently is a 
satellite of Applicant, this is not justification for today's 
B°ard action which effectively forecloses the possibility, that 
^is control might be terminated, thus effecting a deconcentration 
o f the relevant market. On the contrary, addressing itself to the 
Sortance of the preservation of such a possibility, the Supreme 
C°urt has said; "[I]f concentration is already great, the importance 
of 
Preventing even slight increases in concentration and so pre-
Serving t h e possibility of eventual deconeentration is correspond-
in3ly great." U.S. v. Philadelphia Nat'l Bank, 374 U.S. 321, 
42 (1963). 
In view of the adverse effect consummation of the proposed 
^uisition would have on competition and in the absence of a show-
of a ny benefit to the public in this case, we would deny the 
Plication. 
^tuary 11, 1972 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R B 
35S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
2/11/72 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S nrriciAi. conRESPHNocNi: 
TD THE UUAUD 
February 11, 1972 
First Tulsa Bancorporation, Inc 
Fourth Floor 
First National Building 
Tulsa, Oklahoma 
74103 
Dear Sirs: 
Pursuant to 12 Code of Federal Regulations 225.2, the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has made a pre-
liminary determination that, upon its acquisition of five per 
cent or more of the shares of Southeastern State Bank, First Tulsa 
Bancorporation, Inc. ("First Tulsa") will exercise a controlling 
influence over the management and policies of Southeastern State 
Bank ("Southeastern"). The determination was based on the follow-
ing facts: 
1. First Tulsa would own more than five per cent 
of a class of voting securities of Southeastern, while 
one or more of First Tulsa's directors or officers or 
employees with policymaking functions serve as directors 
or officers or employees with policymaking functions with 
Southeastern, while no other person, not associated with 
First Tulsa, owns as much as five per cent of any class 
of voting securities of Southeastern. 
2o First Tulsa would own more than five per cent 
of a class of voting securities of Southeastern, while 
First Tulsa's officers and directors will hold shares of 
Southeastern which, when aggregated with First Tulsa's 
holdings, will constitute more than 25 per cent of a 
class of voting securities of Southeastern. 
3. The chief executive officer of Southeastern 
was formerly employed by First Tulsa for twenty-three 
years. The books and records of Southeastern are audited, 
upon instruction from the Board of Directors of First 

First: Tulsa Bancorporation, Inc. 
-2-
Tulsa's banking subsidiary, First National Bank and Trust 
Company of Tulsa, by personnel of that subsidiary. First 
Tulsa provides Southeastern with a variety of services 
ordinarily only provided in such combination and to such 
extent by a bank holding company for its subsidiary, e . g . , 
data processing, furniture and equipment leasing, and 
investment services. 
As required by 12 Code of Federal Regulations 225.3(c), 
Within thirty days after acquiring 5 per cent or more of the shar 
Southeastern, First Tulsa must notify the Board (1) whether it 
will terminate the control relationship, or (2) whether it will 
report and comply with all requirements of federal banking law 
lri a manner consistent with the subsidiary status of Southeastern 
° r (3) of the basis on which it wishes to contest the Board's pre 
limj.nary determination that First Tulsa exercises a controlling 
flue nee over the management and policies of Southeastern. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

361 
Item No. 5 
2/11/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST VIRGINIA BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, 
9 hank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 
u.S.C. 1842( a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to 
Schoolfield Bank & Trust Company, Danville, Virginia ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
*CePt as a means of acquiring the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
the n 
Proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organization 
treated as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
acc°rdance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
m 
P 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
fk 
tne Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the sixth largest banking organization in Virginia, 
c°ls 19 banks with aggregate deposits of $540.8 million, representing 
n o 
1/ 
per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
The 
data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
ations and acquisitions approved through December 31, 1971. 

3 6 2 
- 2 -
acquisition of Bank ($14.2 million deposits) would not represent an 
appreciable increase in Applicant's control of deposits in the State or 
change its present classification. 
Bank controls 8.9 per cent of total deposits among the 9 banks 
20 banking offices operating in the relevant market, which approxi-
2/ 
mates the southern half of Pittsylvania County. 
Bank operates its 
two offices in the City of Danville, where it ranks as fourth largest 
o f the seven city banks. The nearest of Applicant's subsidiaries to 
Bat*k is located 150 miles from Danville. No significant present com-
petition exists between Bank and any office of Applicant, and it appears 
that consummation of the proposal would not foreclose the development of 
p°tential competition because of the distances involved and Virginia s 
testrictive branching laws. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and Bank 
9 r e satisfactory and prospects for each appear favorable. Banking factors 
some support for approval since Applicant will assist Bank in 
during replacements for the recent loss of two officers of Bank. 
Coi>venience and needs considerations also lend weight toward approval 
because of new and expanded services planned by Applicant, which will 
ilnProve Bank's ability to compete with representatives of the larger 
banking organizations in the area. Applicant's planned new services 
W°uld include an overdraft checking service for Bank and trust services; 
distance would also be provided Bank in its staff training program, 
o» 
includes Chatham and the independent City of Danville. 

363 
-3-
inveatment portfolio management, and data processing service. It is 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal would be in the 
PuMic interest, and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
t h« reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
0r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
auch period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
i 
Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
If 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
February 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(SEAL) 
— 
: 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
V Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
B r W r and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
G°Vernors Mitchell and Maisel. 

364 
Item No. 4 
2/11/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CITIZENS BANK OF SCHOOLFIELD 
Order Approving Merger of Banks 
Citizens Bank of Schoolfield, Danville, Virginia, a proposed 
^ b e r State bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied pur-
S U a n t to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's 
Pri°r approval to merge with Schoolfield Bank & Trust Company, 
Danville, Virginia, under the charter of the former and the name of 
t h e latter. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in 
approved by the Board, has been published and the Board hao re-
l a t e d reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, 
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
C°rPoration. The Board has considered all relevant material contained 
in the record in the light of the factors set forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating 
to the application of First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, 
Sinia, to acquire voting shares of the successor by merger to 
°°lfield Bank and Trust Company, Danville, Virginia. The trans-
shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 

365 
- 2 -
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
g0°d cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
P^suant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
February 11, 1972. 
\ 
1 ' 
" -
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(SEAL) 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
5 Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
dimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
vernors Mitchell and Maisel. 
4 

366 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
2/11/72 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 11, 1972 
Board, of Directors 
Citi zens Bank of Schoolfield 
Danville, Virginia 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System^ 
approves the application of Citizens Bank of Schoolfield, Danville, 
Virginia, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, subject 
to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the under-
standing that Citizens Bank of Schoolfield will not conduct a banking 
business with the public until it has merged with Schoolfield Bank & 
Trust Company, Danville, Virginia. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

Board of Directors 
-2-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied 
With and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a 
formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
3 G 8 
Item No. 6 
2/11/72 
February 17, 1972 
Honorable William Proxmire 
Chairman 
Joint Economic Committee 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
^ e a r M r . Chairman:-
accordance with the arrangements previously m a d e with 
^ u r Committee, I a m transmitting herewith a staff report 
financial developments in the fourth quarter of 1971. 
Sincerely yours, 
cL^i 
Arthur F. Burns 
^closure 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
o r T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE S Y S T E M 
e 
C o 
L . - G F r e s p o n e s . e n c e 1 
/ 
Item No. 
$ 
2/11/72 
363 
Dfltft February 4, 1972_ 
o f Gov ernors 
Governor Sheehan & Mr. Kol^a/id 
-^htL^akalcc 
rw 
Subject: Reduction of the Proposed 
1972 Operating Budget 
At its meeting on December 20, 1971, the Board approved 
an operating budget totaling $26 million for 1972 and instructed 
the Executive Director to reduce the proposed 1972 operating 
budget of $26.5 million ($25.24 million plus unbudgeted add-ons) 
within the approved total of $26 million. 
Hie proposed 1972 operating budget plus add-ons has 
•th the Division Directors as follows 
been reduced in coordination wii 
($ Millions) 
Proposed Adiustments Revised 
$25.24 
0 
$25.24 
, 
.80 
-.17 
.63 
.40 
-.39 
.01 
.10 
+ .05 
.15 
0 
+ .06 
.06 
0 
-.16 
-.16 
$26,54 
-.61 
$25.93" 
Operating Budget 
General Pay Increase 
Committee on Interest & 
Dividends 
Vault Study 
New Board Adviser Positions 
Other Adjustments 
Adjustments to the proposed 1972 operating budget were 
effected as follows: General Pay Increase reduction reflects Board 
action on January 27, 1972 to constrain Division full-time 
Permanent employment on June 30, 1972 in support of President's 
new economic program; Committee on Interest and Dividends reduced 
to reflect use of in-house resources; Vault Study increased 
following review of contract proposals; increase for New Board 
Adviser Positions applies to Mr. Solomon and his secretary; 
Other Adjustments reflects adjustments made in fees, rentals, 
travel and other accounts. 
It is requested that the Board approve the revised 1972 
Division operating budgets in Column 3 of the attachment which 
are consonant with revised total of $25.93 million. 
Attachment 

Revised 1972 Division Operating Budgets 
Division 
(1) 
1972 
Proposed 
Budget 
(2) * 
1972 
Revised 
Budget 
(3) 
Board Members 
$ 
934,275 
$ 1,016,800 
Executive Director 
385,935 
395,667 
Office of the Secretary 
846,952 
870,609 
Legal Division 
741,070 
748,053 
Research & Statistics 
4,876,100 
5,066,530 
International Finance 
1,611,780 
1,640,816 
o 
Supervision & Regulation 
1,745,349* 
1,781,736 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
2,147,701 
2,357,347 
i 
Personnel Administration 
723,801 
724,267 
Administrative Services 
4,690,021 
4,690,294 
Office of the Controller 
446,905 
463,819 
Data Processing 
6,052,901 
6,137,686 
Residual Retirement & Ins. Benefits 
39,888 
39,888 
TOTAL OPERATING BUDGET 
$25,242,678 
$25,933,512 

Item No. $ 
2/11/72 
C H A I R M A M O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 2 0 5 5 ! 
February 14, 1972 
The Honorable Edward W . Brooke 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
•Dear Senator B r o o k e : 
I a m writing in response to your request for the Board's 
views on your draft bill to amend section 24 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, relating to real estate loans by national banks. 
I understand tla t you plan to offer this proposal as an 
amendment to the general housing bill now under consideration 
by the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. The 
Board believes that, within reasonable bounds of safety, it would 
be appropriate to provide national banks with sufficient flexibility 
in making real estate loans to be in a position to meet changing 
borrower needs for both residential and nonresidential mortgage 
credit. Consequently, the Board would support your proposed 
amendment, but with one modification. W e believe the Comptroller 
the Currency should be authorized to establish additional safe-
guards by regulation in case they prove necessary. For example, 
the draft bill m a y tend to encourage extension of balloon-payment 
loans. While it m a y be argued that such arrangements are not 
inimical to the interests of the borrower or to the safety of the 
bank, w e believe that careful consideration should be given to 
Providing s o m e administrative safeguards against possible 
abuses. W e suggest, therefore, addition of the following new 
subsection at the end of section 24 as it would be revised by 
V°ur amendment: 
"(g) Loans m a d e pursuant to this section shall be 
subject to such conditions and limitations as the Comptroller 
o f the Currency m a y prescribe by rule or regulation. " 

372 
The Honorable Edward W . Brooke 
T h e Board believes, however, that an alternative 
approach would be preferable to that embodied in the present 
law and continued in your amendment. Thus the entire 
section 24 of the Federal Reserve Act could be repealed and 
a single sentence substituted therefor, reading as follows. 
"Any national banking association m a y m a k e loans on.the 
security of real estate to the extent authorised by regulations 
prescribed by the Comptroller of the Currency. 
T„ the field of real estate loans, the ground rules have 
In the iieid 01 ic 
, 
d e s that the existing section 
changed so m u c h in the past few decaaos 
24, which you seek to amend, has become obsolete in s o m e 
respects, and any a m e n d m e n t thereof now which speci les 
restrictions m a y b e c o m e obsolete very quick y. rhe soit 
an approach w e are suggesting would permit the s u p ^ s o x y 
authority that is primarily responsible for the safety andI 
soundness of national banks to provide those banks vit 
flexibility, and at the s a m e time safeguard the public interest, 
by timely changes in the regulations. This approach would 
also recognize that loans to one class of borrowers 
suck « 
h o m e buyers, m a y require a different set ot rules than aPr>.y 
to m o r e sophisticated borrowers, such as builders. 
T h e Board also r e c o m m e n d s that you consider addmg 
a provision under which real estate loans would be el giblets 
collateral for advances from the Federal Reserve at he s a m e 
rate of interest that applies to loans secured by Cove nment 
securities. At present, the rate of interest on an ac vance 
secured by h o m e mortgages must be at l e a s t one-half per cent 
higher than the rate the lending Reserve Bank charges on loans 
secured by Governments. 
For s o m e time, the Board has " c o m m e n c e d legislation 
r e g a r d i n g real estate lending oy 
Reserve on sound 
m e m b e r banks to borrow from the Fedeial K e 
real estate loans without incurring a "penalty charge. 

373 
The Honorable Edward W , Brooke 
-3-
The terms of the Board's legislative proposal are 
simple: "The last sentence of section 10(b) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S. C. 347b) is repealed. " That sentence 
presently requires imposition of the "penalty" rate of interest 
'on paper that does not meet the "eligibility" requirements of 
A c t i o n 13. Besides mortgage loans, the other major type ot 
assets that would be affected by the repeal is municipal ^ 
obligations. In these times when the needs of our nation s 
municipalities are so great, the Board believes that municipal 
Obligations should be eligible for advances to the s a m e extent 
any other class of obligations, assuming, as would be the 
^ s e under our proposal, that they meet the test of soundness. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
