MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Federal Advisory Council 
September 16, 1969 

2859 
i 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the 
Board Room of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C., 
at 10:30 a.m. on Tuesday, September 16, 1969. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Wheeler, Brown, Mayer, Wilkinson, 
Craft, Graham, Fox, Nason, Conn, Gray, 
and Larkin, Members of the Federal 
Advisory Council from the First, Third, 
Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, 
Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, and Twelfth 
Federal Reserve Districts, respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of 
the Council 
Mr. Moore, Member of the Council from the Second District, 
had attended the meeting of the Council yesterday but was unable 
to remain for today's joint meeting. 
President Mayer referred to discussions that had occurred 
; • 
regarding the possibility of shifting to a pattern of Council meet-
ing dates that would reduce potential conflicts with other scheduled 
meetings, particularly those of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
It appeared feasible, he said, beginning with 1970, to schedule the 

9/16/69 
-2-
Council's meetings with the Board on the first Fridays of February, 
May, September, and November. 
If the Board decided that this would 
be helpful, the Council would revise its by-laws accordingly. 
It 
might be well, he added, to notify the Reserve Banks so that any pro-
spective new members of the Council could be made aware of the pattern 
of dates involved. 
Chairman Martin expressed appreciation of the offer and 
indicated that the matter would be taken up by the Board. 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general 
economic outlook for the fall and winter 
months and what is their impression of 
the present state of general inflationary 
expectations? 
The Council expects that the slowing in real economic growth 
that has been apparent for several quarters will persist through 
the fall and winter months. This is evidenced by the slowing of 
retail sales; the decline in the sales of durable goods including 
autos; the slackening in the growth of capital investment; and 
the decline in total construction. 
The prospect of a future slow-
ing in business activity is tempered somewhat by the continuing 
high level of personal income. The flattening, and possible decline, 
in the rate of economic growth will cause profits to decrease. 
Notwithstanding these developments, we have the impression 
that general inflationary expectations continue strong. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether the Council felt that once 
profits showed significant weakness inflationary expectations might 
change fairly rapidly, and President Mayer said that in his view they 
would change quite rapidly. 

9/16/69 
-3-
Governor Brimmer observed that there appeared to be a divergence 
in the degree of inflationary expectations among key decision groups. 
He agreed that the expectations of businessmen might closely follow 
profit performance. 
However, it appeared that, despite recent declines 
in the stock market, investor preferences still ran toward equities, 
which would seem to reflect anticipation of further inflation. 
Mr. Larkin remarked that part of the explanation might lie in 
the question of available alternatives. 
There was a lot of money look-
ing for investment, and in many cases the choice was between bonds and 
stocks, in which event the answer was rather obvious. 
President Mayer noted that equities were considered attractive 
not only because of an anticipation of inflation but also because of 
growth possibilities. 
Portfolio managers were mindful of what had 
happened to bond owners in recent years. Also, it should be noted that 
the Council members drew most of their opinions from customers of their 
banks, predominantly businessmen. Accordingly, there could be some 
bias in the direction of the businessman's attitude. 
B. What are the Council's impressions regarding 
business plans for capital expenditures and 
inventory investment? To what extent is such 
planning being influenced by (1) the availa-
bility and cost of money, (2) current and 
prospective profits, and (3) uncertainties 
about the level of future product demand? 

2862 
9/16/69 
-4-
The Council believes that many businessmen are reassessing 
their plans for capital expenditures and inventory investment. 
Surveys of businessmen tend to confirm the paring back on plans 
for capital spending in the current year. The exceptionally high 
cost of carrying inventories probably has forced some cutback in 
planned additions to existing stocks. 
The availability and cost of money, the current and prospec-
tive profits squeeze, and uncertainties about the near-term level 
of product demand are all contributing to these decisions. 
President Mayer remarked that, of four corporate boards of 
directors on which he served, three had recently reappraised their capital 
spending plans in some detail. The fourth situation involved long lead 
times. 
Chairman Martin suggested that it would be interesting to have 
an assessment of forecasts by two prominent economic consulting firms 
that had been reported in today's papers. One predicted that expendi-
tures for new plant and equipment would increase by 9 per cent in 1970 
and the other expected an increase of 7 per cent. 
Council members, however, indicated that their knowledge of the 
reports was confined to a rather hasty reading of the accounts in the 
press. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the reports might not be too 
inconsistent with other, earlier surveys if one looked at the pattern 
for 1969 as a whole compared with expectations for 1970 as a whole. 
Data gathered by the Department of Commerce and the Securities and 
Exchange Commission suggested an increase, in current dollars, of about 
5 per cent in 1970. The private surveys reported in today's papers 

9/16/69 
-5-
seemed to contemplate about the same pattern, but with a quicker turn-
about . 
Chairman Martin commented that many people appeared to be "look-
ing toward the far side of the valley," to use a phrase that was currently 
popular. 
Mr. Nason said that he interpreted comments by Mr. Moore during 
the Council's meeting yesterday as reflecting an expectation on the 
part of the latter*s staff that money rates would ease more rapidly than 
other members of the Council believed, and then perhaps resume an upward 
trend by mid-1970. Mr. Gray said it was his impression that Mr. Moore 
expected the pace of inflation to follow a wavy line, rather than a 
steady downward path, over the course of several years. 
C. In view of the general decline in new construction 
activity over recent months, does the Council be-
lieve that planning activity for future building 
has also been cut back? 
If so, what kinds of 
construction seem to be most affected? 
Despite the general decline in new construction activity 
in recent months, the members of the Council have seen little or 
no evidence that planning activities for future building have been 
cut back with the exception of housing starts. However, the depre-
ciation provisions of the pending tax bill undoubtedly are causing 
some uncertainty and adversely influencing the planning of some 
speculative and commercial building, including shopping centers. 
President Mayer indicated that the Council's reference to housing 
starts meant construction of one-to-four family units. His personal 
view was that there were some definite signs of commercial building--
shopping centers in particular--also being held back, one reason being 

2864 
9/16/69 
-6-
that financing costs were at such levels that renting would be difficult. 
Mr. Larkin commented that in California, shopping center construc-
tion had come almost to a halt, whereas until recently the volume had 
been substantial. 
Insurance companies, which provided most of the 
financing for these projects, usually required a piece of the action 
as part of the deal, and this was another factor that had deterred the 
promoters. 
The demand for shopping center financing from his bank had 
practically disappeared. And incidentally his bank had experienced an 
invoLuntary reduction in its own capital spending because many of its 
new branches would ordinarily be located in shopping centers. 
D. Do Council members have any evidence of diffi-
culties for State or local governments caused 
by the scarcity of financing for such bodies? 
Are spending programs being held up and, if so, 
how significant are these delays? 
The recent rise in interest rates on municipal obligations, 
aggravated by pending tax legislation, has lifted them above many 
statutory ceilings and is becoming an increasingly serious problem. 
As a consequence, the short-term borrowing of funds by municipal-
ities from commercial banks, and the use of tax and bond anticipa-
tion obligations already has grown to a substantial volume. 
There 
are likely to be significant delays in many public projects. 
President Mayer said that in many areas in Pennsylvania, 
for example, public bodies were unable to find a market for their bonds 
at the statutory rate and hence were turning to banks for project financ-
ing. This presented a problem for the banks, which already were short 
of funds, but they felt obliged to finance some of these projects because 
of urgent community need for the facilities. 

12S65 
9/16/69 
-7-
Mr. Graham commented that his bank also was being called upon 
to make short-term loans to public bodies that found the bond market 
foreclosed to them. 
Mr. Wilkinson added that he believed this related mainly to 
projects in midstream. He thought that States and municipalities were 
actively revising their plans and not starting new projects unless 
there was some assurance that funds would be available. Mr. Larkin 
observed that a backlog of public projects would immediately come to 
the surface if conditions changed, and Mr. Graham noted that there had 
been increasing voter resistance to bond issues for public projects, 
even badly-needed ones such as schools. Other comments stressed the 
adverse effect on municipal financing of pending tax legislation. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the request of the Federal Govern-
ment, when it announced recently that Federal construction would be 
sharply curtailed, that States and municipalities also cut back on 
their projects. 
It had been intimated that if they did not retrench 
sufficiently the Federal Government might have to consider withholding 
its share of project funds. Governor Brimmer inquired whether bank 
financing of local public projects might therefore run counter to 
national policy. 
Mr. Nason expressed an understanding that the Federal request 
for cutbacks related mainly to new projects, whereas the bank loans 
were normally for the purpose of assisting projects already under way. 

2866 
9/16/69 
-8-
Mr. Larkin mentioned a water project in California that required 
a substantial amount of additional funds. Although strong pressure had 
been exerted on banks to provide the money, they were not doing so; 
instead the State was selling investments and using some of its other 
funds to keep the project going. 
Mr. Conn remarked that it seemed regrettable that monetary 
restraint exerted its strongest impact on housing starts and municipal 
programs. Businesses could often forego a new building without undue 
hardship, but when schools or hospitals were needed the whole community 
suffered if they could not be provided. 
2. Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the prob-
able strength of business loan demand in the 
period ahead? To what extent do expected 
loan trends reflect bank efforts to ration 
funds as distinct from changes in customers' 
demands? 
The Council anticipates that the increase in loans in the 
months ahead will be no more than seasonal, and may be less if 
economic activity slows more than we now expect. Several members 
reported that loan demand in the past several weeks was less intense 
than was experienced earlier in the year. The effort of banks to 
ration funds has had a significant effect. A considerable volume 
of loan demand has been diverted to the commercial paper market. 
President Mayer noted that the diversion of loan demand to the 
commercial paper market appeared to have important implications for the 
future of monetary policy. A piece of the banking business had been 
chipped off in the effort to stop inflation, and it might never come 
back. Corporate treasurers had learned something new, and their inhibitions 

tCrixs € 
9/16/69 
-9-
about alternate sources of funds had dissipated. 
Since the portion of 
the banking business that had been lost was beyond the control of the 
monetary authorities, in the future they would be leveraging their 
actions on a smaller part of the total financial apparatus of the country. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether Mr. Moore's analysis, referred 
to earlier, seemed to suggest a different view of loan demand from that 
indicated in the Council's statement. The expectation of falling pro-
fits that the Council had noted in its answer to the first question on 
the agenda would seem to point to a strong demand for loans. 
Corpora-
tions had been using up their liquidity at a fairly rapid rate; if their 
profits fell, they would either have to cut their spending or obtain 
external financing. 
Mr. Nason said that the Council had had an extended discussion 
yesterday on whether the reduced pressure for loans was not attributable, 
at least in part, to expectation on the part of borrowers that they 
could not obtain loans. The diversion of demand into the commercial 
paper market suggested that this might be a strong influence. 
Mr. Conn expressed the view that in fact loan demand was very 
strong at the present time. 
If a borrower tried four or five banks 
without success, it did not follow that he did not want the loan. His 
impression of the Council's discussion yesterday was that the members 
believed that to the extent lendable funds were available there would 
be demand to absorb them. 

2S68 
9/16/69 
-10-
In response to questions by Governor Mitchell regarding loan 
demand by finance companies and utilities, it was indicated that they 
were obtaining a substantial amount of funds through the commercial 
paper market. Likewise, a number of industrial companies were using 
that market. 
There was a significant relationship between the trend 
of bank loans and the increase in commercial paper. 
Chairman Martin observed that the possibility of overkill was 
a principal problem with which the Federal Reserve must deal. An impor-
tant consideration, however, was that any easing of money conditions, 
even slight, would no doubt bring to the fore a backlog of projects. 
Mr. Conn expressed the view that it afforded a certain sense 
of security if, at any time the authorities felt that inflation had 
been brought sufficiently under control, they could expect the economy 
to rebound quickly by releasing the backlog of demand for various public 
and private projects. 
It would be unfortunate if that latent demand 
were killed off; as long as people wanted to borrow, the authorities 
could change the direction of the economy. 
If the demand were not 
there, it would mean that people thought the economy was in a downward 
spiral. 
Mr. Wilkinson remarked that current deferrals were visibly creat-
ing a backlog of municipal and private construction. 
It seemed to him 
that severe monetary restraint could not be continued until the price 
level had actually declined. On the other hand, he did not believe the 

2869 
9/16/69 
-11-
System should necessarily ease its policy of restraint at the first 
signs of economic softening. 
It was suggested that it might be well at this point to consider 
the last question on the agenda, relating to monetary policy, and by 
agreement the discussion turned to that question. 
5. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit 
policy under current circumstances? 
The Council is strongly in favor of the Board's objective 
of slowing the pace of business so as to halt the rise in prices. 
Accordingly, the Council would support a continuation of the 
present degree of credit restraint but no increase. Because of 
the prevailing uncertainty, the Council would prefer to err on 
the side of restraint. 
President Mayer said there were two members of the Council who 
felt the economy was coming to the point, if it was not already there, 
where the brakes should be eased, although they felt this should be 
done in a way that would not be readily visible. Open market operations, 
for example, were not as conspicuous to the public in general as certain 
other steps. 
Governor Mitchell inquired what signs would persuade the Council 
that monetary restraint was being held in place too long, and President 
Mayer replied that the answer to the first question on today's agenda 
listed such signs, namely, slowing of retail sales, decline in sales 
of durable goods including autos, decline in total construction, and 
slackening in the growth of capital investment. A large majority of 
the Council felt, however, that not enough evidence had been seen at 
this point to justify a lessening of monetary restraint. Two members 

2870 
l. 
9/16/69 
-12-
felt that that point would soon be reached, if it had not already. 
Governor Maisel returned to the question of how an easing could 
be accomplished without being obvious, and response was made that what 
the Council thought should be avoided was headline news such as discount 
rate action. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether, in light of various indicators 
such as a continuing high level of personal income, there was not a 
prospect of continuing inflation for some time. 
President Mayer remarked, in his response, that if the Board 
believed the econometric model that Governor Daane had referred to in 
a recent speech, it would be quite a while before monetary restraint 
resulted in a drop in prices. 
If the Federal Reserve waited too long 
to ease, the economy might by then be headed into a real recession. 
In response to an inquiry whether the Council thought it was possible 
to achieve a reduced rate of inflation without an economic decline, 
President Mayer said that was a difficult question and the heart of 
the problem. 
Mr. Nason observed that in light of the population increase a 
no-growth track was really a negative factor. He had assumed that 
neither the Board nor any other part of the Government was looking 
for more than a substantial slowing in the rate of growth. 
Mr. Craft expressed the view that it would be necessary for the 
Federal Reserve to feel its way along to see whether a reduced growth 

2S7t 
9/16/69 
-13-
rate would result in a decline in prices, and President Mayer commented 
that a dramatic change in the rate of inflation probably could not be 
brought about without incurring some unemployment. 
It was well known 
how that unemployment would be distributed, which in itself presented 
problems. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that there were really two 
questions: what to do with the economy and how to deal with public 
psychology. When people had been prevailed upon to change their atti-
tudes, he thought production would taper off, employment would fall, 
and unemployment would rise. This sequence of events probably was already 
in train, and he doubted that anything could be done now to affect the 
pattern for the remainder of 1969. 
Mr. Conn said that in his opinion substantial recent wage in-
creases, practically without any controls, had led many people to believe 
that inflation was almost a way of life. He believed the monetary 
authorities should be satisfied if it was possible to get back to a rate 
of inflation of 3 per cent and hold about there. There were many pressures 
in the economy, with people wanting many things and willing to go into 
debt to pay for them. To try to get the rate down to 1 or 2 per cent 
would require paying a price that the public would not be willing to 
pay. 
Mr. Gray suggested that the rise in personal incomes was the 
real force behind most of the inflationary expectations. As long as 

28 
i 
9/16/69 
-14-
that trend continued there would be a difficult conflict between the 
demand for goods and services and the need to dampen that demand. 
Chairman Martin said that, while some unemployment might be 
necessary, at the present juncture he did not believe it would have to 
be of great magnitude to accomplish disinflation. 
The over-all problem 
of disinflation involved many variables that were difficult to assess, 
but he noted that the Council had expressed the view that for the moment 
it would be preferable to err on the side of restraint. 
Credit cards. Governor Brimmer at this point requested the 
views of the Council with respect to problems regarding credit cards 
that recently had been the subject of Congressional hearings. 
In par-
ticular, he wondered if the practice of banks in sending unsolicited 
credit cards—sometimes by registered mail--represented an effort to 
promote consumer credit that was out of keeping in a period of restraint 
President Mayer replied that credit card operations were a very 
small part of the banking business and that the increase in credit card 
volume had been less at many banks than the decrease in consumer instal-
ment loans. The advertising devoted to credit cards gave the impres-
sion that this operation was of much greater importance than it was 
in fact. 
Mr. Graham spoke in the same vein. Except at the beginning, 
he said, his bank had done only token advertising. 
It was not pushing 

2873 
9/16/69 
-15-
the credit card business through advertising except as necessary to 
honor commitments to correspondent banks that were members of its charge 
card system. 
President Mayer expressed the view that it was not feasible for 
any new entrant to launch a credit card successfully without sending 
out unsolicited cards. Banks already in the business would not object 
to legislation prohibiting the sending of unsolicited cards, because 
new competitors would thus be kept out. The practice of sending unsolic-
ited cards by registered mail provided protection against the postal 
thefts that were prevalent in some areas. However, he was sure it was 
a nuisance to some recipients. 
Mr. Larkin also spoke about the relatively small percentage 
of the banking business that was represented by credit cards. He agreed 
that advertising gave the operation far more prominence than it deserved 
in the total picture. However, credit cards offered a way to appeal 
to the customer. A bank could put across the idea that it wanted to 
serve individuals as well as corporate customers. 
Mr. Craft said he was convinced that the extent of complaints 
regarding unsolicited cards had been exaggerated in newspaper articles. 
Mr. Wheeler reported that his bank, along with two others, was 
about to embark on a credit card program and had tried to address itself 
to the question whether this step was consistent with national credit 
policy. No clear indication of inconsistency had been found; the 

2874 
9/16/69 
-16-
business seemed basically to involve a shift from one type of consumer 
debt to another. 
The banks did not intend to send out cards unsolicited, 
but rather to send letters indicating that a card would be sent unless 
the addressee advised that he did not want one. 
Mr. Conn expressed the view that there was not much of an answer 
to the problem of unsolicited credit cards, because those who wished to 
enter the business would never be able to get started if they did not 
resort to the practice. A prohibition against unsolicited cards would 
be fine for those who were already in the business but a real obstacle 
for those who wanted to enter it. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he was interested in the comments 
i 
of the Council members because he believed that since the Board pub-
lished its credit card study about a year ago there may have been a 
substantial change in attitudes. 
In a sense, he felt that banks were 
creating a bad image for themselves by giving the impression that they 
were pushing consumer credit at a time when the high level of consumer 
income was a contributing factor to inflation. 
President Mayer remarked that from a short-term point of view 
he would advise anyone to stay out of the credit card business. 
From 
a long-term point of view he was not sure that that would be good advice. 
The mechanism might be a cheaper and more efficient way of extending 
consumer credit. 

2 8 7 
9/16/69 
-17-
Chairman Martin expressed agreement with Governor Brimmer's 
observation about the image banks incurred in promoting credit card 
programs. 
In a period of credit restraint, when banks were already unde 
rather heavy criticism, it would be constructive to gear advertising to 
show banks in a posture of being helpful. 
Governor Brimmer noted that within the near future the results 
of a new study of credit card programs would be available. 
B. What are the Council's reactions to the Board's 
new regulations affecting loan RP's, Federal 
funds, and Eurodollars? 
Is credit availability 
being influenced, and if so, to what extent? 
The credit restraint efforts of the monetary authorities, 
of which the Board's new regulations are a small part, have influ-
enced the availability of funds. As these regulations increase 
the cost of funds, banks are under further pressure to curtail 
lending and marginal borrowers may be discouraged. However, it 
is not clear that these added regulations were essential to the 
ultimate success of monetary restraint. 
There was no significant discussion of this question. 
C. How does the Council view the rapid further 
growth this year in the commercial paper 
market? 
Does the development of this market 
mean a permanent loss of some bank loan 
customers and, if so, how important is this 
quantitatively? 
To what extent is commercial 
paper issued by one-bank holding companies or 
their subsidiaries being distributed on a 
retail basis by their bank affiliates? 
How 
does the Council view this development? 
The Council views with some concern the rapid growth in 
the commercial paper market which reflects the response to the 
Regulation Q ceiling and the resulting sharp run-off in CD's. 
In effect, the commercial paper market has mobilized the liq-
uidity in the corporate sector and made it available to others 
in need of funds. This has reduced the role of banks as finan-
cial intermediaries. 
It is quite likely that this will mean 
some loss of bank loan customers. 

287 
9/16/69 
-18-
Th e Council understands that perhaps one-half of the 
commercial paper issued by one-bank holding companies is 
distributed directly. 
This development is a response to the 
difficulties of operating under Regulation Q in today's money 
market. 
President Mayer explained that the Council had not been sure 
what the Board meant by distribution on "a retail basis" and hoped that 
its comment on "direct" distribution would be responsive. 
Governor Brimmer stated that the Board's question had been so 
phrased because of reports being received that some banks were selling 
commercial paper over the counter and promoting it as a substitute for 
consumer CD's. 
It had been alleged that some holding companies were 
actively seeking out customers of subsidiary banks with offers of com-
mercial paper, at rates higher than permitted under Regulation Q. 
Several Council members indicated that they were not aware of 
such practices. 
It was their impression that most banks handled commer-
cial paper through their money market desks, and they doubted that much 
"retailing" was going on. Mr. Conn, however, described an instance in 
which the paper of a bank holding company in Oklahoma City was being 
promoted on a "hard sell" basis by personnel of the subsidiary bank, 
and Mr. Nason reported that for the past several months a smaller bank 
in Minneapolis had been actively offering its parent company's subordi-
nated notes. 
D. With bank liquidity at historically low levels, 
how much difficulty are banks having in meeting 
pledging requirements for various types of 
deposits and borrowings? 

< $ i 
9/16/69 
-19-
The Council finds that an increasing number of banks 
are experiencing growing difficulty in meeting pledging require-
ments for various types of deposits and borrowing. 
President Mayer commented that pledging requirements were a real 
problem, one for which there did not seem to be any ready solution. 
Mr. Wilk inson added that the difficulty was compounded by the variety 
of State laws, and further discussion dealt with the apparently abor-
tive efforts of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the American 
Bankers Association to work out a solution. 
3. Regulatory matters 
A. The Board would be interested in any comments 
the Council might have at this stage regarding 
the Truth in Lending regulation. 
The regulation has created confusion and paperwork beyond 
any benefit, particularly in view of apparent consumer apathy 
toward the whole subject. 
There is little evidence of rational 
comparative shopping by consumers, in the face of the new interest 
disclosure requirements. Moreover, the regulation has added 
significantly to the cost of handling this business. 
President Mayer emphasized that the Council was not opposed to 
the principle of truth in lending. However, there seemed to be little 
interest on the part of the public. 
Mr. Gray remarked that costs had been added to the normal expense 
of doing business and someone would have to pay them. 
Chairman Martin observed that he did not believe anyone could 
have worked harder than Governor Robertson to bring this complex sub-
ject into reasonable focus. However, the law was a difficult one to 
work with. 

287a 
9/16/69 
-20-
President Mayer replied that the Council was aware that the 
task was not an easy one. 
B. Do Council members detect any growing restiveness 
on the part of banks concerning their membership 
in the Federal Reserve System? 
If so, what seem 
to be the main reasons for such bank dissatisfac-
tion? 
Some of the Council members reported that there is growing 
restiveness concerning membership in the Federal Reserve System, 
largely reflecting the cost of maintaining the reserves required, 
and the reported delays in responding to inquiries. 
Mr. Craft commented that of about a dozen banks he had contacted 
in his district, all but one reported restiveness. Among the major 
complaints had been that member banks were discriminated against, that 
the Fed was slow in reacting to new conditions, that it created uncer-
• 
tainty as to what banks could expect in the way of borrowing accommoda-
tion, that it ignored the fact that bankers were on the "firing line," 
and that it did not respond effectively to inefficiencies of operations. 
' 1 :. 
i < • I 
It was his impression that, overall, belief existed that conversion to 
national charter would bring faster responses and perhaps a more liberal 
supervisory attitude. 
Governors Mitchell and Brimmer noted that the Board had delegated 
authority to the Reserve Banks and to its own staff to deal with a number 
of supervisory matters. They inquired whether that had not brought about 
improvement in the time taken to handle applications. 
Council members had no general reactions to report on that score, 
although President Mayer replied that his bank's experience with respect 
to Edge Act applications had been excellent recently. 

2 8 7 9 
9/16/69 
-21-
Governors Brimmer and Sherrill then pointed out that the time 
taken to process merger and holding company cases also had been shortened 
considerably, except for situations that presented special problems. 
Mr. Gray commented that in his district withdrawals from the 
System apparently stemmed principally from a desire to carry balances 
with a correspondent bank that would otherwise have to be carried with 
the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that a quicker and more 
responsive answer could probably be obtained by a member bank from the 
President of its Reserve Bank than from the regional representatives 
of the Comptroller of the Currency or the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. What member banks really found irksome, he suspected, was 
that the answer was more likely to be negative. He thought that the 
list of dissatisfactions Mr. Craft had mentioned might represent largely 
• . 
. 1 .... t,. 
" - -
complaints against negatives. 
Mr. Brown said he had the impression that the cost of member-
ship in terms of required reserve balances was the major factor creating 
restiveness in his area. Also, some banks had been depending more upon 
their correspondents than upon the Reserve Bank, and therefore did not 
appreciate the value of System membership. 
In Pennsylvania, nonmember 
banks could invest in bank stocks. 
C. The Board would appreciate having any views the 
Council might have regarding the administration 
of the discount window under current circum-
stances . 

28*10 
9/16/69 
-22-
The Council believes that the current administration of 
the discount window has been generally satisfactory. The members 
of the Council suggest the desirability of broadening eligibility 
and of implementing the Board's proposed plans for the use of the 
discount window. 
There was no significant discussion of this item. In response 
to questions by members of the Council, it was reported that there was 
no immediate prospect of enactment of the so-called "eligible paper" 
bill. 
D. The Board would be interested in the views 
of Council members concerning the adminis-
tration of Regulation Q, both under conditions 
of very restrictive monetary policy and also 
in circumstances where market interest rates 
might decline to and through levels that 
would make funds readily available through 
the issue of large-denomination CD's. 
Almost all members of the Council favor an increase now 
in the Regulation Q ceilings on negotiable CD's of $1 million 
or more. All but one or two members favor lowering the denomi-
nation limit to $500,000. 
It is the Council's judgment that 
the Board should have as its ultimate objective the elimination 
of Regulation Q ceilings on large-denomination negotiable CD's. 
President Mayer commented that action on Regulation Q ceilings 
on large CD's might have the announcement type of effect against which 
the Council had cautioned in its answer regarding monetary policy. 
However, it was a fact the rate limit on large CD's had deprived banks 
of a substantial source of funds, and their efforts to find alternative 
sources had prompted the Board to adopt a series of measures to restrict 
access to those alternatives. 

9/16/69 
-23-
Governor Daane observed that the psychological effect of an 
increase in rate ceilings certainly had to be a consideration. 
He 
inquired what the real effect would be in terms of money flows, and 
President Mayer expressed the view that the real effect would not be 
very significant. 
Chairman Martin remarked that he had received quite a few let-
ters from bankers who wanted the rate ceiling raised for all CD's above 
$100 ,000, and President Mayer said that he would personally like to 
have the rate increased down to that level. The part of his bank's 
Portfolio consisting of CD's between $100,000 and $500,000 had been 
quite stable, he added. 
Mr. Wilkinson expressed the view that psychologically it would 
be a mistake to increase Regulation Q rates at this time, and Mr. Conn 
said he almost shared that view. However, if rate ceilings were increased 
only on CD's of $1 million and more there would not be much effect in 
terms of reallocation of funds of the great majority of interior banks. 
Certificates of the $1 million denomination and over should be issued 
Principally by the money market banks in order to relieve them of the 
necessity to go into the Euro-dollar market so extensively. 
4. Balance of payments. 
What are the Council's views on the effect of 
the marginal reserve requirement against Euro-
dollars in restraining the inflow and temper-
ing a future outflow of funds? 

2882 
9/16/69 
-24-
The marginal reserve requirement against Euro-dollars 
has the practical effect of raising the cost of such funds 
to commercial banks, but it has not restrained the inflow. 
However, the form of the regulation has tended to put a 
floor under the volume of these funds and to this extent 
will temper the future outflow. 
President Mayer noted that at yesterday's meeting Mr. Moore had 
remarked that it would seem timely to study again the Fowler report 
directed toward encouraging European investment in the U.S. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on November 17-18, 1969. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
