. „ , 
October 24, 1968 
Minutes for 
' 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

*~y y*i;— gy 
O / 
0 & 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 24, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
M r . Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
M r . Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
M r . Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
M r . Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Misses Ormsby and Wolcott of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Heyde and Lynch of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Ducy, and Wiles of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Maguire of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Millea of the Office of the Controller 
Approved items. 
The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made 

/ d u 
10/24/68 
-2-
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, 
1 
New York, New York, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. 
Letter to United California Bank International, 
2 
New York, New York, granting consent to the 
acquisition of shares of Banque du Credit 
Populaire, S.A.L., Beirut, Lebanon. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of County Bank and Trust Company of Somerset, Franklin Township, 
New Jersey, into Somerset Hills National Bank, Basking Ridge, New 
Jersey, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
There would appear to be no significant competition 
existing between County Bank and Trust Company of Somerset 
and Somerset Hills National Bank, Basking Ridge, and 
numerous alternatives would remain in the area served by 
the merged banks. Overall the effect of the proposed 
merger on competition would be slightly adverse. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Citizens 
National Bank of Muncy, Muncy, Pennsylvania, into Commonwealth Bank 
and Trust Company, Wellsboro, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Corporation, in a form in which the conclusion 
read as follows: 

" ^ J"*
-
KJ i O t 
10/24/68 
-3-
There is no competition existing between The 
Citizens National Bank of Muncy and Commonwealth 
Bank and Trust Company, Wellsboro, and potential 
for competition between them is limited. The over-
all competitive effect of the proposal would not be 
adverse. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of County National 
Bank, Blackville, South Carolina, into American Bank 6c Trust, Orange-
burg, South Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Corporation. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
While there is virtually no competition between 
American Bank & Trust, Orangeburg, South Carolina, and 
County National Bank, Blackville, South Carolina, to 
be eliminated by the proposed merger, there is minor 
amount of present and potential competition between the 
latter bank and The Springfield State Bank, Springfield, 
South Carolina, which is scheduled to be merged into 
American in the near future. It is concluded that the 
overall effect on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Application of Bankers Trust Company (Items 3-5) . There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on October 9, 1968, of the application of Bankers 
Trust Company, New York, New York, to merge Northern Westchester 
National Bank, Chappaqua, New York. A dissenting statement by Gover-
nor Robertson also had been distributed. 
After a discussion that resulted in agreement on minor changes 
in the majority statement, the issuance of the order and statement was 
authorized. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as 
Items 3 and 4. A copy of Governor Robertson's dissenting statement is 
attached as Item No. 5. 

3755 
10/24/68 
-4-
Discount study research papers. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated October 23, 1968, from Mr. Holland requesting that 
authorization be given to enter into a contract with an outside firm 
to multilith new supplies of six research papers prepared in connection 
with the study of the discount mechanism. Requests for the papers had 
far exceeded expectations, but an additional 1,000 copies of each, at 
a total estimated cost of approximately $3,185, would probably meet 
the continuing demand until such time as the papers could be made 
available in printed form, as provided in the proposed budget for 1969. 
Governor Mitchell endorsed Mr. Holland's recommendation, noting 
that the quality of the papers was such that copies should be made 
available to those requesting them. Governor Brimmer commented that 
one of the papers gave promise of becoming a "best seller" for class-
room use. He suggested that, rather than placing on the System the 
financial burden of furnishing textbooks, consideration be given to 
fixing a price for that paper, and perhaps others, when they were 
available in printed form. 
The letting of the proposed contract for multilithing was 
then authorized, it being understood that the resulting overexpendi-
ture in the pertinent account of the 1968 budget was also approved. 
Search for ransom notes (Item No. 6). There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated October 22, 1968, from the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations relating to a search for ransom notes used in 

O 
i 
o b 
10/24/68 
-5-
connection with a kidnapping case in April 1967. At the request of 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which had furnished the serial 
numbers to all financial institutions, the Federal Reserve Banks had 
been searching for the Federal Reserve notes involved. Question had 
now been raised by one of the Reserve Banks whether the search should 
be continued. 
In discussion with the Washington office of the FBI, the 
Board's staff had been informed that the ransom money was still one 
of the best hopes of solving the case, and the continued assistance 
of the Reserve Banks was requested. To alleviate the work problem a 
minimum program of inspection was suggested. Attached to the memo-
randum was a proposed letter to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks that would express the view that a limited further search on 
the basis outlined was desirable, with the understanding that the 
matter would be reviewed again with the FBI in approximately twelve 
months. 
There was agreement on the part of the Board that the search 
should be continued as a cooperative gesture, but not for an indefinite 
period, and it was the consensus that the matter should be reviewed 
again with the FBI in six months. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Presidents 
of the Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
Request for Board financial data (Item No. 7). In February 
1968 the Bureau of Accounts of the Treasury Department requested that 

o 
t O f 
10/24/68 
-6-
the Board submit a monthly report of its receipts and expenditures 
related to the budgetary statements published in the 1969 Federal 
budget. 
The Treasury request was related to a Budget Bureau shift of 
the Board's annual budget reports from the category of memorandum 
statements, in the "annexed budgets" section of the Federal budget 
appendix, to "trust funds" under "other independent agencies" in the 
Federal budget. Receipts and disbursements of all budgets thus clas-
sified appeared in the Treasury's monthly statement of receipts and 
expenditures, and consequently monthly reports from the agencies 
concerned were required. The presentation of the Board's financial 
data in the main Federal budget, as distinguished from the annexed 
budgets section, was explained to have stemmed from a recommendation 
of the President's Commission on Budget Concepts. The Board's staff 
was not aware of the change until a printed copy of the 1969 Federal 
budget was received. 
At the Board meeting on February 15, 1968, it was agreed that 
a policy question, rather than just a technical procedure, was involved, 
and it was understood that the matter would be explored further at 
Policy level. 
In a memorandum dated October 16, 1968, Mr. Kakalec noted that 
a reply had now been received by Chairman Martin from Mr. David M. 
Kennedy, Chairman of the President's Commission on*Budget Concepts, 

»>y*v) 
O J 
10/24/68 
-7-
to whom the Chairman had written to ascertain whether it was the 
intent of the Commission to have the Board data included in the 
Fede ral budget. In his reply Mr. Kennedy stated that "The Commission 
did not focus directly on the more detailed question as to whether 
the administrative expenses of the Federal Reserve Board,as opposed 
to the banks, should be included in the budget" and concluded by 
saying "Although I would hazard a guess that most of the Commission 
members probably thought they were talking about the entire System 
when they agreed to exclude the Federal Reserve from the budget, it 
would be presumptuous of me to speak officially to that effect. 
In 
my own case, I was definitely thinking of the exclusion of the whole 
System, including the Board." 
Mr. Kakalec's memorandum pointed out that the Bureau of the 
Budget had requested the Board's annual 1969 budget data in time for 
inclusion in the Federal budget for fiscal year 1970. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that the Director of the 
Bureau of the Budget should be informed that the Board was willing to 
continue submitting annual budget data for inclusion in the "annexed 
budgets" section, subject to the same understanding that was in effect 
a t the time the Board acceded to the Budget Bureau's 1963 request for 
data regarding the Board's financial affairs; namely, that the data 
would be presented in the Federal budget for informational purposes 
I V 
°
nly and that their presentation would not affect in any manner the 
Procedures then in effect with respect to budgetary review. 

3759 
10/24/68 
-8-
Governor Robertson suggested that the letter might also quote 
the pertinent portion of the reply from the Chairman of the President's 
Commission on Budget Concepts. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the letter could also cite 
section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act, which provides that the Board's 
funds, derived from assessments upon the Federal Reserve Banks, "shall 
not be construed to be government funds or appropriated moneys." 
Following further discussion, the sending of a letter to the 
Director of the Budget Bureau along the lines suggested was approved 
unanimously. A copy of the letter subsequently transmitted is attached 
as Item No. 7. 
Bank Protection Act. Governor Robertson reviewed the progress 
that was being made in developing a regulation to implement the require-
ments of the recently-enacted Bank Protection Act. He indicated that 
there was a possibility that the other banking agencies would not be 
willing to accept, for purposes of their own regulations, the degree 
of specificity and the extent of reporting that he and the Board's 
staff would recommend as necessary in light of the requirements of 
the statute. Representatives of the supervisory agencies (including 
the Home Loan Bank Board) would be meeting tomorrow with representa-
tives of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Justice Department 
to discuss the matter further, and he would keep the Board informed of 
developments. 
i '•• 
3".', • 

O 
4 "'' 
10/24/68 
-9-
':! t
 : 
.i J: I ' 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
«j 4 
OJ 
Item NO.' 1 
10/24/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRRESPDNOENCE 
TO THE BDARD 
October 24, 1968. 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company,. 
350 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York, 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Frankfurt am Main, Germany, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Sections and of Regulation M . 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for 
purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the 
understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations, maxi-
mum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your bank, Manufacturers Hanover 
International Banking Corporation, Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation, and The Gallatin Company, Inc., and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 2 
D ^ t h e 
10/24/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 24, 1968. 
United California Bank International, 
140 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of September 25, 1968, the Board of Governors grants 
consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 20,000 
shares of stock of Banque Populaire, S 0 A 0 L 0 , Beirut, Lebanon, 
at a cost of approximately $420,000, provided the shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be made 
within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your Corporation and 
United California Bank, and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
j • 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Note: 
Reference should have been to 
Banque du Credit Populaire, S.A.L. 

3763 
Item No. 3 
10/24/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C, 
In the Matter of the Application of ' 
BANKERS TRUST COMPANY
 
1 
for approval of merger with 
Northern Westchester National Bank
 
1 
I 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Bankers Trust 
Company, New York, New York, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger into that bank of 
Northern Westchester National Bank, Chappaqua, New York, under the 
charter and title of Bankers Trust Company, As an incident to the merger, 
the eight offices of Northern Westchester National Bank would become 
branches of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form 
approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed mergers, 

3 7 6 4 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby Is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York pursuant to delegated authority* 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 24th day of October, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane,. Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
10/24/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY BANKERS TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
NORTHERN WESTCHESTER NATIONAL BANK 
STATEMENT 
Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York ("Bankers Trust"), 
with total deposits of about $5.5 billion, has applied, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval 
of the merger of that bank with Northern Westchester National Bank, 
Chappaqua, New York ("Northern Bank"), which has total deposits of 
1/ 
about $33 million. 
The banks would merge under the charter and name 
of Bankers Trust, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. As 
an incident to the merger, the eight offices of Northern Bank would 
become branches of Bankers Trust, increasing the number of its offices 
to 77. 
Competition. - Northern Bank's main office is located in 
Chappaqua in the northern part of Westchester County. In addition to 
Northern Bank, which operates eight banking offices, six banks operate 
36 banking offices in Northern Westchester County (estimated population 
of 190,000). Three of these banks are large New York'City banks, and 
1/' Deposit figures are as of December 30, 1967, unless otherwise indicated. 

the other three banks are considerably larger than Northern Bank. 
j-, i ^ 
Northern Bank holds about 13 per cent of the estimated $255 niillion 
2/ 
deposits of the banking offices in Northern Westchester County. 
Bankers Trust is the sixth largest bank headquartered in 
New York City and the seventh largest bank in the country. It is 
the "lead" bank of a registered bank holding company, Bankers Trust 
New York Corporation (the "Corporation"), which controls a total of 
four banks having aggregate deposits of approximately $5.7 billion. 
Bankers Trust presently has no offices in Westchester County but has 
received approval to establish a branch in the town of Greenburgh, 
which is in the southwestern part of Westchester County about 15 miles 
south of Chappaqua. One of the Corporation's banking subsidiaries, 
First State Bank of Rockland County, has a branch office located in 
West Haverstraw, about four miles from a branch of Northern Bank, but 
the Hudson River prevents easy accessibility between the two offices. 
• 
Bankers Trust derives about $2.0 million in deposits and 
$4.3 million in loans from Northern Bank's service area, a small por-
tion of total area deposits and loans. The three other subsidiaries 
of the Corporation derive deposits of about $91,000 and loans totaling 
about $132,000 from Northern Westchester County. Northern Bank derives 
about $312,000 of deposits and $352,000 of loans from New York City and 
only a very small amount of loans and deposits from the areas served by 
the Corporation's other subsidiaries. 
2/ As of June 30, 1966. 

The Board thus concludes that there is no meaningful existing 
competition between Bankers Trust and the other holding company sub-
sidiaries and Northern Bank. On the other handj competition could be 
increased through the establishment of branches by Bankers Trust in 
Northern Westchester County. State law permits New York City banks to 
establish branches in Westchester County, and Bankers Trust would be a 
likely de novo entrant into that market. However, since 1960, the 
New York State Banking Board has approved only 4 of 10 applications 
by State banks headquartered in New York City for de novo branches in 
Northern Westchester County, and it is apparent, through an analysis of 
growth projections for the northern part of the County and of the avail-
ability of suitable banking office locations, that the possibility of 
future competition between Bankers Trust and Northern Bank is not sig-
nificant. 
Furthermore, the village of Chappaqua, under State law, is 
not open for the establishment of branches by any banks other than 
Northern Bank, which maintains its home office there. Consummation of 
the merger would thus permit de novo branching in the Chappaqua com-
munity, and two banks have filed applications for branches there 
contingent upon favorable action on this merger. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to Bankers Trust are satisfactory, but the 

T
/
m 
- 4 -
adequacy of the capital structure of Northern Bank has not been regarded 
as completely satisfactory due to a liberal dividend policy and the high 
cost of maintaining a large volume of interest bearing deposits. The 
merger would eliminate that inadequacy, and the banking factors with re-
spect to the resulting bank would be satisfactory. 
Convenience and needs of the community, - The effect of the 
merger on banking convenience and needs would be limited to Northern 
Westchester County. That area is presently served (in addition to 
Northern Bank) by six large banks offering full banking services and with 
adequate lending limits. Nevertheless, in those parts of the County that 
are conveniently served only by Northern Bank, the proposed merger would 
provide residents with complete trust services, expanded consumer and 
.real estate loan services, and higher effective rates of interest on 
savings deposits. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
effect of the merger on competition would be slightly favorable. The 
banking factors offer some support for approval of the merger, and the 
merger would benefit the banking convenience and needs of Northern 
Westchester County through a broader range of banking and trust services. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that, on balance, the 
application should be approved. 
V 
October 24, 1968. 

Item No. 19 
10/24/68 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
' f f , •. 
I agree with the majority Statement that present competition 
between Bankers Trust and Northern Bank is not significant, but in my 
vlew, the potential for competition in the future is too great to war-
rant its preclusion by approval of this merger application, in the 
absence of real public benefits which might be expected to flow there-
from. 
I view Bankers Trust as the most likely de novo entrant into 
a U parts of Westchester County. Whether the northern part of the 
County achieves sufficient growth to support additional banking offices 
next year, in five years, or in twenty years, I believe Bankers Trust 
would have a number of those offices. Bankers Trust presently has an 
e*tensive branch system, and of all the areas into which it is per-
mitted to branch, it lacks adequate representation only in Westchester 
County. In fact, the merger application itself states that for several 
years Bankers Trust has been looking for appropriate locations within 
the County and that it will ultimately have one or more de novo offices 
located there, I thus conclude that Bankers Trust has the will and the 
resources to become an active competitor in Northern Westchester County. 
Northern Bank is one of only seven banks having offices in 
Northern Westchester County and the only bank headquartered in that part 
the County. Three of the other banks with offices £n Northern 
Westchester County are large New York City banks. Northern Bank has 
eight prime locations and holds approximately 13 per cent of the total 

• VI J W!V, g V 
- 2 -
deposits in Northern Westchester County. I can see no reason to make a 
gift of those offices and deposits to a large and aggressive bank that 
has every capability to compete for business there. 
The record in this case shows that the banking convenience and 
needs of the Northern Westchester County area are being fully met, if 
not completely by Northern Bank, then by the other six large banking 
institutions having offices there. Every conceivable service that 
Bankers Trust can offer is now available in the area. Northern Bank 
itself offers a fairly complete line of services, and the services that 
it does not offer are of a type not in constant day-to-day demand. For 
example, it is no great inconvenience to drive a few miles to obtain 
trust services. 
The banking factors also lend no support to the merger. 
Northern Bank is a well-managed, viable institution. Any capital in-
adequacies have been or can be remedied by the Bank, 
In conclusion, I see this as a clear case of the complete and 
total elimination of potential competition between two good banks, with 
the public interest suffering from the elimination, 
October 24, 1968. 
« 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
10/24/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
t & v 
October 24, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
One of the Reserve Banks has requested the Board's views 
on whether the Reserve Banks should continue to search for Federal 
Reserve notes used in the Young kidnap case. The search for the 
notes in question began 18 months ago following the kidnapping of 
7-year-old Kenneth John Young, the son of a wealthy Beverly Hills, 
California, banker. A ransom of $250,000 in used $100 bills was 
paid on the evening of April 5, 1967, and the child was released. 
The kidnapper was never apprehended and so far as is known the 
money has never been spent. 
At the time, the Federal Bureau of Investigation notified 
all financial institutions of the serial numbers of the notes in-
volved and requested the participation of the Reserve Banks. It is 
understood that all Reserve Banks were contacted immediately by 
Special Agents of the FBI and that agreements were reached with 
respect to the extent that each Bank would search its incoming 
deposits. 
Representatives of the Board's Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations have discussed the case with the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation in Washington and have been advised that 
the ransom money is still the one best hope for solving the case. 
In these discussions, the Bureau has emphasized that the searching 
by the Reserve Banks is very important and that continued assistance 
in this regard would be very much appreciated. 
To alleviate the work problems at offices heretofore 
making a complete search,and to make it feasible for all offices 
to continue the search until alternative leads are developed, the 
Bureau has suggested a minimum program involving only the inspec-
tion of San Francisco notes having serial numbers in the 11 to 12 
million range. In the light of information furnished by various 

1 
€ 
- 2 -
Reserve Banks, it would appear that the time required for a search 
confined to the numbers suggested would range from 30 minutes or 
less daily at most offices, up to three hours daily at Los Angeles, 
and five hours daily at New York due to the large volume of the 
notes handled. 
In light of the fact that the Bureau considers this case 
to be of major importance, the Board believes that it would be 
desirable for all Reserve Banks to adopt a uniform policy for 
making a limited search for the ransom notes on the basis suggested 
above with the understanding that the matter will be reviewed again 
with the Bureau in about 6 months. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forre3tal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
f •:! • / 
; v'-.c r 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3 
i n 
" i 
i*. J 
'••f^Pf'* 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 7 
10/24/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 30, 1968 
The Honorable Charles J. Zwick, 
Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D . C, 
20503 
Dear Charlie: 
This letter concerns Board submission of annual statements 
of budget data to the Bureau of the Budget for inclusion in the Federal 
Budget. 
In early February of this year, the Treasury Bureau of Accounts, 
via a telephoned request at the staff level, asked us to begin submitting 
a monthly report of Board receipts and expenditures. 
We understand the Treasury request resulted from the Budget 
Bureau shift of the Board's annual budget data from the category of 
memoranda statements in the "Annexed Budgets" section of the Federal 
Budget Appendix to "Trust Funds" under "Other Independent Agencies" in 
the main Budget. 
Neither the Board nor its staff were aware of the 
shift until we received a printed copy of the Budget. 
Our staff was given to understand by a Budget Bureau represent-
ative that the presentation of the Board's financial data under "Trust 
Funds" and the resultant request for a monthly report to the Treasury 
stemmed from a major recommendation of the President's Commission on 
Budget Concepts, 
Reference was made to the following excerpt from the 
Commission's report: 
The Budget should, as a general rule, be comprehensive 
of the full range of Federal activities. 
Borderline 
agencies and transactions should be included in the budget 
unless there are exceptionally persuasive reasons for exclu-
sion. 
Specifically, the budget should include the transactions 
of the Federal trust funds which are now outside the admin-
istrative budget (although the Commission believes that the 
identity and integrity of trust funds should bp maintained); . . . 

O / 
Mr. Zwick 
-2-
In connection with the Board's consideration of a response 
to the Treasury request, I wrote to Dave Kennedy, Chairman of the 
President's Commission on Budget Concepts, to ascertain whether it 
was the intent of the Commission to have Board budget data included 
in the Federal Budget. 
In his reply (copy attached) Dave wrote, "The Commission 
did not focus directly on the more detailed question as to whether the 
administrative expenses of the Federal Reserve Board, as opposed to 
the banks, should be included in the budget." 
He concluded his letter as follows: 
Although I would hazard a guess that most of the 
Commission members probably thought they were talking 
about the entire System when they agreed to exclude 
the Federal Reserve from the budget, it would be 
presumptuous of me to speak officially to that effect. 
In my own case, I was definitely thinking of the 
exclusion of the whole System, including the Board. 
Inclusion of financial data from the Board in the Annexed 
Budgets section began as a result of a 1963 report, "The Federal Budget 
as an Economic Document," in which the Joint Economic Committee rec-
ommended that the coverage of the annual budget documents be enlarged 
to provide more complete information on financial transactions in which 
the government or government agencies are involved. 
In response to a formal request from the Budget Bureau, the 
Board agreed to furnish pertinent memorandum financial data. The Budget 
Bureau request was based on the grounds that furnishing the data would 
be helpful in carrying out the Joint Economic Committee recommendation 
and the data would represent a useful addition for users of the budget 
document. 
The letter from me to the then Director of the Bureau of the 
Budget responding to the Bureau's 1963 request, included the following: 
Your letter states that the data involved in your 
request would be presented in the Federal Budget for 
informational purposes only, in a separate section at 
the end of the usual trust fund figures, and that their 
presentation in the budget would not affect in apy 
manner the present procedures with respect to budgetary' 
review. 

Mr. Zwick 
Section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act provides that the 
Board's funds, derived from assessments upon the Federal Reserve 
Banks, "shall not be construed to be government funds or appropriated 
moneys." 
Inclusion of the Board's budget data under "Trust Funds" 
appears to us to be a violation of the spirit and intent of that 
provision. 
The Report of the President's Commission on Budget Concepts 
states, "Inclusion of the Federal Reserve banks in the Federal budget 
might jeopardize the vital flexibility and independence of the monetary 
authorities." 
The Board feels that this statement applies equally as 
well to inclusion of the Board. 
However, the Board is willing to continue submitting annual 
budget data for inclusion in the "Annexed Budgets" section with the 
same understanding as that outlined above in the excerpt from my 1963 
letter. 
I hope we can reach a mutual understanding on this point that 
can be reflected in the Federal Budget for fiscal 1970. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) W m . McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Attachment 
