Minutes for June 30, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 8 
Amendment to Regulation Y, 
Bank Holding Companies. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. It you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, June 30, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 3:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Wood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
BIS membership. Several staff documents had been prepared to 
assist the Board in considering (1) whether the Federal Reserve should 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

161 
6/30/71 
-2-
establish representation on the Board of Directors of the Bank for 
International Settlements and (2) whether it should invest in shares 
of the Bank. 
In a memorandum of June 21, 1971, Messrs. R. Solomon and 
Wood weighed the advantages and disadvantages of membership; memoranda 
of June 29 from Mr. Wood set out procedural steps that might be involved 
and summarized a luncheon discussion held by members of the Board with 
Nathaniel Samuels, Deputy Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, 
on June 23. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum of June 29, took the 
position that under present law neither the Board nor the Reserve Banks 
have authority to invest in shares of the BIS, nor could the doctrine 
of implied powers be used to justify such investment. 
Chairman Burns prefaced the discussion of the subject by stating 
that it was not expected that the Board would reach a decision today; the 
intention was to explore the members' thinking. 
The ensuing discussion 
disclosed a general inclination toward establishing membership in the 
BIS on the part of Governors Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill, while Governor 
Robertson was negative. 
Governor Mitchell raised a number of questions 
on legal and political grounds but indicated that he might be persuaded 
toward a favorable position if the Board concluded, after further explora-
tion of the matter, that positive action should be taken. Governor Maisel 
felt that the question should not be raised by the Federal Reserve; how-
ever, if the Administration chose to seek authority from Congress for such 
a move, he would support it. 

1G3D 
6/30/71 
-3-
As considerations in favor of BIS membership it was suggested, 
among other things, that the Federal Reserve position would be strengthened 
if it participated more formally in this forum of central bankers that 
was part of the integration of the international monetary community; that 
evolving circumstances and relationships pointed to the desirability 
of such a move on the part of the Federal Reserve; that more of the busi-
ness of the BIS was shifting to the formal meetings, in which only members 
could participate; and that greater influence could be exerted on manage-
ment policies, which had an important bearing on the conduct of the 
organization's operations. 
Adverse arguments held that BIS membership would provide few, 
if any, tangible benefits that were not otherwise available; that signifi-
cant time and travel burdens would be involved in preparing for and 
participating in the BIS meetings regularly; that formal participation 
ran the risk of being outvoted in management decisions; that, because of 
recent criticisms of the U.S. from the international point of view, a 
move to join the BIS at this time might be regarded as a move out of 
weakness rather than strength; that debate on any request for specific 
authority from the Congress could result in changing basically the mission 
of the Federal Reserve System; and that there was as much, or more, 
opportunity to exert an influence in BIS affairs under present arrange-
ments than there would be if the Federal Reserve were only one among 
equals. 

1640 
6/30/71 
-4-
Discussion of the reasons underlying the Legal Division's position, 
as expressed in its memorandum, included expression of a view that the 
essential question to ask was whether the Federal Reserve had the legal 
authority to make the kind of expenditures necessary to enable it to 
perform its functions as a central bank. The relationship of that ques-
tion to the subject at issue was discussed generally, but the debate 
was inconclusive. 
The discussion concluded with an indication by the Chairman that 
the subject of BIS membership would be brought up again in due course. 
It was understood that in the meantime the staff would consider the mat-
ter further in light of some of the questions that had been raised at 
this meeting. 
Governor Robertson then withdrew and the following entered the 
room: 
Messrs. Mcintosh, Director, Kiley, Associate 
Director, and Guinter, Assistant Director, 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Other appropriate supporting staff 
Reserve Bank budgets. With a memorandum of June 22, 1971, the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations submitted the Reserve Bank 
budgets for the second half of 1971 and a memorandum containing the 
Division's summary of the budgets. Controllable expenses for all Banks 
and branches combined were expected to total $179.6 million, an increase 

1641 
6/30/71 
-5-
of 8.6 per cent over the revised aggregate budget for the first half of 
1971. Total controllable operating expenses were budgeted at $169.6 mil-
lion, which was 6.3 per cent greater than the current rate. 
Personnel 
costs accounted for 69.2 per cent of the increase in controllable opera-
ting expenses. The Banks were budgeting an increase of 842 employees, 
the largest staff increase since semiannual budgets were begun in 1963. 
The Division also submitted, with a memorandum of June 28, a 
draft letter prepared at Chairman Burns' suggestion to make known to the 
Reserve Banks the Board's concern over rising System costs and to request 
that the Banks initiate a cost reduction program in all areas and attempt 
to hold increases in average salary expense to 6.2 per cent, the indicated 
national average increase as computed by the Department of Labor for 1970. 
Speaking as Chairman of the Committee on Organization, Compensa-
tion, and Building Plans, Governor Maisel reported that the Committee 
did not believe that the Reserve Bank budgets, as presently formulated 
and submitted, provided a vehicle for the making of prudent decisions on 
cost control at the Reserve Banks. Adjustments were in process but if 
the Board wished to make some move now, the sending of a letter along the 
lines of the one that had been drafted appeared to be the only option. 
However, the sending of such a letter would involve a change in salary 
administration at the Banks, which at present was geared to the annual 
wage surveys in the respective communities. 
In the circumstances, there 
was a difference of opinion within the Committee as to whether any letter 

1642 
6/30/71 
-6-
should be sent. 
In the event the Board felt that a letter should be 
sent, he believed that it would be desirable first to have a discussion 
of the draft letter with the Presidents' Conference Committee on Manage-
ment and Personnel. 
Governor Daane endorsed the sending of a letter, after discus-
sion with the Presidents' Conference Committee, but it was his hope 
that a drastic change in salary administration procedures could be avoided 
and in particular that Reserve Banks with low salary structures in rela-
tion to their respective areas would not be constrained unduly by the 
overall target in effecting adjustments. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the Board's recent efforts to 
encourage the boards of directors of the Reserve Banks to assume as much 
responsibility for salary administration as possible within the general 
limits of the broad supervisory powers vested in the Board of Governors. 
He felt that in those circumstances the transmittal of a letter along 
the lines that had been suggested would come as a surprise to the Banks 
since it would run counter to the theory of delegation of responsibility 
in this area. Also, the wage-price review board concept had not yet 
been adopted as national policy. 
In his view, the imposition of a gen-
eral target as a constraint on Reserve Bank salary increases would 
unfairly single out at this stage one small body of workers, namely, 
Reserve Bank employees. 

1643 
6/30/71 
-7-
The discussion that followed included a further explanation of 
the principles of Reserve Bank salary administration at the present 
time, the manner in which the community surveys and resulting salary 
structures were used to implement those principles, and the modifications 
that would appear to be involved if the proposed letter were sent. It 
was the majority view that those modifications might not necessarily be 
as extensive as had been contemplated. 
Reference also was made to the standards according to which the 
salaries of Board employees were fixed and to plans for control of Board 
costs, in which connection Governor Sherrill described to the Board the 
instructions that had been given to division heads for the formulation 
of their 1972 budgets. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it developed that the majority 
of the Board members favored in principle the sending of a letter, along 
the lines that had been proposed, to the Federal Reserve Banks, but it 
was also felt that a final decision on the sending of such a letter should 
be withheld pending discussion of the matter by the Committee on Organiza-
tion, Compensation, and Building Plans with the Committee on Management 
and Personnel of the Presidents' Conference. 
It was understood that in 
such discussion the Board's Committee would indicate that the proposed 
letter reflected the concern felt by the Board about rising System costs, 
that the Board wanted to work toward the objectives discussed in the 
letter in cooperation with the Reserve Banks, and that the Board therefore 

1644 
6/30/71 
-8-
had requested its Committee to discuss with the Committee of the Presi-
dents what administrative procedures would be best suited for the purpose. 
Governor Brimmer registered his opposition to the sending of 
the proposed letter but agreed that discussion of the subject matter 
with the Presidents' Committee in advance of the sending of the letter 
would be appropriate. 
Discussion then reverted to the Reserve Bank budgets for the 
second half of 1971, which were accepted as submitted. A copy of the 
telegram sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to this 
action is attached as Item No. 1. The telegrams sent to the other Reserve 
Banks were similar in form. 
Chase International. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to Chase International Investment Corporation, New York, New York, grant-
ing consent to make an additional investment in Mah-In Industries, Inc., 
Seoul, Korea. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Divestment under Bank Holding Company Act. On March 18, 1971, 
the Board adopted an amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, 
to implement section 4(c)(12) of the Bank Holding Company Act, setting 
conditions to be complied with by holding companies that declared their 
intention to divest their banks by 1981 if such companies wished to acquire 
nonbanking interests in the interim before divestment. Senators Sparkman 
and Bennett had objected to the form of irrevocable declaration adopted 
by the Board, which required agreement that all interest in the bank 
would be divested. 

1645 
6/30/71 
-9-
In a memorandum dated June 24, 1971, the Legal Division recom-
mended that the Board retain the present form of declaration, but that 
it send a letter to the Reserve Banks authorizing implementation of the 
requirement in such a way that complete divestment would not be required 
in the absence of control of the bank. 
However, it had been suggested at the meeting on June 28 that it 
would be better procedure to publish a notice in the Federal Register 
clarifying the Board's intent by indicating that a company that filed 
an irrevocable declaration that it would cease to be a bank holding com-
pany by divesting itself, by 1981, of whatever interest it might have in 
a bank could nonetheless retain some interest in its bank if it convinced 
the Board that despite such interest it would not exercise a controlling 
influence over the management or policies of the bank. 
Accordingly, the Legal Division had prepared a draft of such a 
notice, which incorporated the addition of a footnote to section 222.4(d) 
of Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, along with a draft of letter 
that might be sent to Senators Sparkman and Bennett. 
In discussion, Mr. O'Connell reported that Governor Robertson 
had taken exception to that part of the Federal Register notice reading 
as follows: 
"Under the Act, ownership of less than 5 per cent of the 
shares of a company is generally regarded as not involving control. Accord-
ingly, a company that demonstrates to the Board that its only relation-
ship with the bank is ownership of less than 5 per cent of the voting 

1 6 1 
6/30/71 
-10-
shares generally would be regarded as having divested itself of any 
controlling interest in the bank." He said Governor Robertson would 
prefer language stating that even in cases of less than 5 per cent 
ownership there would have to be a determination by the Board whether 
control actually existed, based on the facts ascertained, rather than 
an automatic determination. 
This point was discussed, but it was the view of the Board 
members present that the language as drafted provided sufficient safe-
guard and was satisfactory. Accordingly, the notice was approved 
unanimously for publication in the Federal Register, along with the 
proposed letters to Senators Sparkman and Bennett. Attached under 
Item No. 3 is a copy of the notice, including the amendment to Regula-
tion Y, as published, along with a copy of the related press release; 
attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of the letter sent to Senator Sparkman 
(a similar letter was sent to Senator Bennett); and attached as 
Item No. 5 is a copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The Board also approved a press release regarding proposed 
amendments to Regulation Y that the Board had agreed at the meeting on 
June 28 to publish for comment, relating to circumstances that may be 
found to constitute control of a bank or other company. 
(A copy of the 
press release is attached to the minutes of June 28.) 
Governor Sherrill then asked for an executive session and all 
staff members withdrew. 

164 
6/30/71 
-11-
Governor Sherrill proposed to the Board a reorganization of 
certain parts of the staff. After discussion, the Board members agreed 
to consider the matter further at the scheduled Board meeting on the 
following day. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
Item No. 1 
6/30/71 
June 30, 1971 
MORRIS - BOSTON 
The Board has reviewed and accepts the budget of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston for the period July 1 - December 31, 1971, as sub-
mitted with Mr. Latham's letter of May 1.7, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KENYON 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 2 
6/30/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C n D R E B P Q N O L N C f : 
TO THE DOAHD 
July 1, 1971 
Chase International 
Investment Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
< Gentlemen: 
This is in reference to your letter of April 23, 1971, 
requesting permission for your Corporation ("CIIC") to purchase and 
hold additional shares, which would give CIIC the majority of the 
shares outstanding, of Mah-In Industries, Inc. ("Mah-In"), Seoul, 
Korea, which was organized to construct and operate a ceramic plant 
in Korea. 
Edge Corporations are organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act for the purpose of engaging in international or 
foreign banking or other international or foreign financial operations. 
The acquisition by an Edge Corporation of control of a corporation 
engaged in nonfinancial activities would not, therefore, generally 
be appropriate. 
CIIC's original investment in Mah-In, in the form of a 
minority stock (and stock option) interest and loans, was made in 
accordance with the provisions of Regulation K. Your letter states 
that due to cost overruns and a basic lack of management and control, 
Mah-In is in need ^of funds to complete its plant and commence opera-
tion, cover projected interest expenses, and refund existing liabili-
ties, Your letter states: 
"Thus CIIC's choice at this point is either to fund by it-
self the full amount needed or liquidate the existing 
assets of the company. It is clear that CIIC could not 
reasonably hope to recover all of its currently invested 
debt funds from such liquidation. On the other hand, the 
projected return on the final cost figure for the venture 
is attractive. Consequently, CIIC has decided it must 
proceed with the project." 
In your letter you also assert: 
"In initial discussions with the Korean government re-
garding obtaining approval for the investment of new funds 

1650 
Chase International 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
under that country's Foreign Capital Inducement Law, CIIC 
was informed that permission could not be given for the 
introduction of any new debt funds due to restrictions 
placed upon the Korean authorities as a result of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund Standby Arrangement for Korea. * * * 
Subsequent discussions resulted in preliminary permission 
to utilize a convertible debenture in addition to straight 
equity." 
it * 
* 
"I would like to stress that although CIIC is requesting 
permission t:o acquire and hold such a large percentage of 
the Company's stock and CIIC is contemplating controlling 
the Company's board of Directors, these actions are being 
taken on an interim basis in order to enable CIIC to do its 
utmost to correct this unfortunate situation. It should 
be further pointed out that even now CIIC is actively pur-
suing the matter of attracting potential Korean and inter-
national institutional partners to reduce both CIIC's equity 
and convertible debt position in the Company. Current in-
dications are that the prospects for success in this regard 
are good once the initial refinancing of the Company has 
been accomplished," 
In view of this and other information furnished, the Board 
of Governors has concluded that your proposed acquisition of addi-
tional stock of Mah.-In would be appropriate in these circumstances, 
provided that CIIC disposes of any additional stock acquired under 
this application, whether acquired directly, as a result of conver-
sion of the debentures, or otherwise, within three years from the 
date of this letter. 
Accordingly, on the condition that the foregoing proviso 
is adhered to, the Board of Governors grants consent for CIIC to 
purchase and hold about 93,333 additional shares of the capital 
stock of Mah-In and convertible debentures of Mah-In (which may be 
converted) at a cost of approximately $350,000 and $1,400,000, 
respectively, provided the additional shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board has noted that as of May 31, 1971, the foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation and The Chase Manhattan 
Bank, National Association, and its other subsidiaries, exceeded 
by a considerable extent the guideline ceiling applicable under the 

1651 
Chase International 
Investment Corporation 
-3-
Foreign Credit Restraint Program. 
The foregoing consent is granted 
only because of the extraordinary circumstances involved and with 
the understanding that those foreign loans and investments will be 
reduced promptly to a level consistent with the guidelines; that the 
investment now being approved will be made within those guidelines; 
and that full consideration is being given to the priorities for 
U.S. export financing and for meeting the credit needs of developing 
countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth Ac Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. 3 
6/30/71 
For immediate release 
J u l y l* 1 9 7 1 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
clarified its rules regarding acquisitions of non-bank concerns by 
conglomerate bank holding companies. 
In March, the Board set up procedures implementing the 
relevant provisions of the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act (Section 4(c)(12). 
Under these procedures, a company that files an irrevocable 
declaration that: it will divest itself of its bank interests by 
January 1, 1981, may acquire a non-bcnlc concern 45 days afrer notifying 
the appropriate Reserve Bank of its intention to make the acquisition, 
unless it is in the meantime notified to the contrary. 
The form of irrevocable declaration states that the holding 
company will divest itself by 1.981 of "whatever interest" it has in a 
bank. 
In response to questions that have been raised, the Board 
today clarified the intent of that requirement. It said that a com-
pany will fulfill its commitment to divest "if it furnishes the Board 
with convincing evidence that it does not exercise a controlling in-
fluence over the management or policies of the bank despite retention 
of some interest in the bank." 
The clarification was made in a footnote to the Board's 
Regulation Y, concerning bank holding companies. A similar note is 
being added to the form of intent to divest. 

A copy of the Board's regulatory amendment in the form 
submitted for publication in the Federal Register is attached. 

TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEII 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 222—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Konbanking Acquisitions by Certain One-Bank Holding Companies 
1. Pursuant to § 222.4(d), a company that became a bank 
holding company on December 31y 1970, as a result of the 1970 amend-
ments to the Bank holding Company Act may file with the Board an 
irrevocable declaration that it will cease to be a bank holding 
company by January 1, 1901. A company that has filed such a 
declaration is permitted, pursuant to a notification procedure,- to * « 
acquire interests in nonbanking companies that may not be acquired 
by other holding companies. 
2. The form of declaration approved by the Board provides 
that the company resolve that it will cease to be a holding company 
''by divesting itself of whatever interest'' it may have in its bank. 
In response to questions that have been raised, the Board has 
clarified that a company may fulfill its commitment pursuant to 
such a declaration by demonstrating that it has divested itself of 
control of the bank although it retains some interest in the bank. 
Under the Act> ownership of less than 5 per cent of the shares of 
a company is generally regarded as not involving control. Accordingly, 
a company that demonstrates to the Board that its only relationship 
with the bank is ownership of less than 5 per cent of the voting 

~2~ 
shares generally would be regarded as having divested itself of any 
controlling interest in the bank. 
3c The procedural difference between determinations by 
the Board under section 2(a)(2)(C) of the. Act and compliance with 
the divestiture requirement pursuant to the irrevocable declaration 
is that with respect to the former the board must establish that 
the relationship constitutes control in violation of the Act whereas 
in. the latl-.or the company must establish to the satisfaction of the 
lsoard that its relationship with the bank does not constitute control. 
The Board believes that this difference is justified in view of the 
favored treatment companies that file such a declaration have under 
§ 222.4(d) o£ Regulation. Y so far as their nonbanking acquisitions 
are concerned. 
4. To clarify this matter, § 222.4(d), second sentence, 
is amended by adding footnote 2 following the phrase "in the form 
approved by the Board", to read as follows: 
2/ Although the form of declaration is in terms of a company divesting 
itself of whatever interest it has in the bank, a company is regarded 
by the Board as complying with this condition if it furnishes the Board 
with convincing evidence that it does not exercise a controlling 
influence over the management or policies of the bank despite retention 
of some interest in the bank. 
A similar note is being added to the form of declaration itself to 
avoid misunderstanding. Companies that have already filed their 
declaration need not refile. 

5. The requirements of section 553(b), Title 5, United 
States Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and 
deferred effective date were not followed with respect to this 
matter, because it clarifies rather than changes a substantive 
rule. 
Effective date. June 30, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 30, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
.. t 
[SEAL] 

Aoff'Ol 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
1 6 5 ' 
Item No. 4 
6/30/71 
O F F I C E O F THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
July 1, 1971 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, I). C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing with further reference to your letter of 
May 19, 1971, regarding the Board's implementation of section 
4(c) (.1.2) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Enclosed is a copy of a document the Board has approved 
for publication in the Federal Register to clarify the Board's 
intentions regarding divestiture under section 4(c)(12) by a company 
that became a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result 
of the 1970 amendments to the Act. 
The document indicates that a company that has filed an 
irrevocable declaration that it will cease to be a holding company 
by divesting itself of whatever interest it may have in its bank 
may nonetheless retain some interest in its bank if it convinces the 
Board that despite such interest it does not exercise a controlling 
influence over the management or policies of the bank. 
Also enclosed for your information is a copy of a regulatory 
proposal announced by the Board today to establish a series of rebuttabl 
'presumptions for the purpose of determinations by the Board, under 
section 2(c)(2)(C) of the Act and otherwise, that a company controls a 
bank or other company. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
Enclosures 

\ c* r> ^ s 
B O A R D G F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No„ 5>V 
° F - t h e 
6/30/71 
; bm^fc 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
ADDRESS CjrFICIAL 
C Q H R H S P D N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
July 2, 1971 
The Board of Governors amended Regulation Y, "Bank 
Holding Companies", effective June 30, 1971, by adding a foot-
note to the second sentence of 5 222.4(d) to clarify the Board's 
intent regarding the form of irrevocable declaration* Enclosed 
is a copy of the press statement regarding this matter and a 
copy of the amendment to the Regulation in form for publication 
in the Federal Register. 
The Board has also added the clarifying footnote to the 
Form of Irrevocable Declaration (a copy of which uas enclosed 
\7ith the Board's letter of March 24, 1971). Enclosed herewith 
is a copy of the revised form, and as before, it is not antici-
pated that the form is to be used as a "fill in" form, but: 
should be used as a guide in preparing such a declaration« 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A* Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 
(Banks and branches) 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 
