MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 14, 1972 

2463 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 14, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman If 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr, Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
•i/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2464 
9/14/72 
-2-
Congressional testimony. The Board discussed a draft of 
testimony to be presented by Chairman Burns before the Subcommittee on 
International Exchange and Payments of the Joint Economic Committee on 
September 15, 1972. While there was general agreement on the overall 
tone and content of the draft, a number of suggestions were made with 
Aspect to certain portions. It was understood that the statement would 
be revised in light of these suggestions and that it would be presented 
in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. 
(Note: A copy of the 
statement, as presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Consent calendar. As recommended in a memorandum from Governor 
Brimmer dated August 30, 1972, the Board unanimously approved for 
transmittal to the Joint Committee on Defense Production a report 
summarizing the mobilization activities of the Board and the Federal 
Reserve Banks for the year ended June 30, 1972. A copy of the letter 
transmitting the report is attached as Item No. 1. A copy of the 
report has been placed in the Board's files. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
September 11, 1972, the Board unanimously denied a request by Financial 
General Bankshares, Inc., Washington, D. C., for an exemption from the 
requirement of prior Board approval of a proposed acquisition of shares 
°f Clarendon Trust Company, Arlington, Virginia, after the latter merges 
with Woodlawn National Bank, Alexandria, Virginia. A copy of the letter 
sent to counsel for Financial General Bankshares is attached as Item No. 2. 

2 4 6 5 
9/14/72 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Financial 
Institut ions, Inc., Warsaw, New York, to merge Geneva Shareholders, 
!nc., Warsaw, New York, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southeast 
Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of First Bank of 
Deltona, Deltona, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First City 
incorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of 
Executive National Bank, Houston, Texas, a proposed new bank, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of 
the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
^nial on August 29, 1972, of the application of Arvco, Inc., Arvada, 
Colorado, to remain a bank holding company through retention of shares of 
Arvada State Bank, Arvada, Colorado. Copies of the documents are attached 
U n d e r Item No. 6. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Provident National Corporation. In a memorandum dated August 25, 
l972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
o f the application of Provident National Corporation, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, to acquire direct ownership of shares of John P. Maguire 

2466 
9/14/72 
-4-
& Co., Inc., New York, New York, a factoring company. The Banking 
Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia also 
recommended approval. 
After a brief discussion during which Governor Brimmer suggested 
changes in the draft order that had been prepared, the Board unanimously 
-§££roved the application and authorized issuance of an order in the 
form attached as Item No. 7. 
Business directors. In a memorandum dated September 12, 197 2, 
Mr. Holland recommended that a meeting of the Board with business 
directors of the Federal Reserve Banks be held in October to discuss 
recent and prospective developments in United States foreign trade and 
CaPital investment. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation. A copy 
°f the letter sent to the Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks is 
attached as Item No. 8. 
First at Orlando Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated September 8, 
l9?2, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to 
acquire shares of North Semoran First National Bank, Fern Park, Florida, 
a Proposed new bank. The Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve 
^ank of Atlanta also recommended approval. 
Governor Robertson favored denial of the application. He felt 
tl^t the Board should not permit First at Orlando Corporation to acquire 

246? 
9/14/72 
-5-
another bank in the Orlando banking market, since it presently controlled 
42.9 per cent of the total deposits in that market. 
The Board approved the application, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
It was understood that an order reflecting that decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration and that a dissenting statement also would 
be prepared. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting. 
First Alabama Bancshares. In a memorandum dated July 24, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, 
to acquire shares of Dothan Bank and Trust Company, Dothan, Alabama. 
The Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
also recommended approval. The Department of Justice subsequently 
expressed the view that the applicant's entry into the Dothan banking 
market by the acquisition of Dothan Bank and Trust Company would result 
i n a significantly adverse effect on competition. In a memorandum dated 
September 8, 1972, the staff reiterated its favorable recommendation, 
stating that the Department had not raised any issues that had not been 
considered. 
The Board approved the application, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting. It was understood that an order reflecting that 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration and that 
a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 

2 4 B c j 
9/14/72 
-6-
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Melnicoff, 
Smith, 0'Connell, and F. Solomon withdrew from the meeting at this 
Point. 
Staff visits to commercial banks. Governor Sheehan reported 
a plan under consideration to permit staff members working in the 
bank holding company area to spend periods of from two weeks to one 
month at commercial banks to learn about the management decision-making 
Process regarding the establishment of new banks and branches and the 
acquisition of banks by holding companies. After a brief discussion 
°f some of the problems that might be involved, it was agreed to defer 
further consideration of the proposal. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Melnicoff, 
arid Smith then withdrew. 
Salary of officer at Philadelphia Reserve Bank. Governor Sheehan 
reported that the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
would like to have Board approval for a 15 per cent increase in the 
salary of Mr. Mark Willes, First Vice President of the Bank, to be 
effective January 1, 1973. Governor Brimmer objected to departing from 
the usual procedure regarding Bank officers' salaries and proposed that 
this matter be taken up at the time that salaries of Presidents and 
First Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks were considered by 
the Board. Governor Robertson suggested that the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans could inform the Bank's Board of Directors 

2463 
9/14/72 
-7-
^hat the Committee was sympathetic to the proposal and would recommend 
approval at the time salary changes were considered. He felt that this 
w°uld serve the Bank Board's purposes without requiring any departure 
from the usual procedures. 
The meeting then adjourned, 
Secretary 

2470 
.•'coVgoJ;-. 
Item No. 1 
9/14/72 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
' 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
» I I I U$j£: 
WASHINGTON, D. C. £0551 
September 14, 1972 
Honorable Wright Patman 
^airman 
Joint Committee on Defense Production 
0rigress of the United States 
Ashing ton, D 0 C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
if5 
In response to your letter of July 1, 1972, enclosed 
0'c
 a rePort summarizing the mobilization activities of the Board 
^-^Governors of the Federal Reserve System and Federal Reserve 
^or inclusion in the Twenty-second Annual Report of the 
X n t Coaimittee to the Congress, 
a 
The report, in three parts, summarizes programs and 
ros
3'Vj-t7-es related to three general areas of preparedness 
b ' £-msibj.lity assigned to the Board and Federal Reserve Banks 
sui r Xf C U l i V G 0 r d e r s 1 1 4 9 0 a n d 
namely, preparations to 
GffVlVe a nuclear attack and to cope with the potential economic 
^ 
all conditions of national emergency, promotion of 
! e r c^ a l bank preparedness, and performance of fiscal agency 
of fj1 
'"ator-v ^ u n c ti° n s i n connection with Government guarantees 
^ 
defense production loans. 
Sincerely yours, 
^losut 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F, Burns 

2471 
I
P 
B O A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20S51 
Item No. 2 
9/14/72 
ADDRESS DTFICIAL CORRCSPDNDENCE 
TD THE QDARD 
September 15, 1972 
Guy Martin, Esquire 
Wartin, Moore, Thaler and Whitfield 
1701 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20006 
Dear Mr. Martin: 
The Board has considered the request in your letter of 
August 17} 1972, on behalf of your client, Financial General Bank-
sh&res, inc. ("FG"), a registered bank holding company. In that 
letter, you'state that, as of August 17, 1972, FG owned 55.1 per 
cent: 0f: the outstanding voting shares of Clarendon Trust ("Clarendon") ; 
since June 8, 1966, FG has owned more than 50 per cent of the 
°utstanding shares of Clarendon; at all times since June 8, 1966. 
has exercised effective control over the management and policies 
Clarendon; Clarendon contemplates a merger with Woodlawn National 
^ank, the pertinent effect of which would be the reduction of FG's 
interest in Clarendon to approximately 44 per cent; after the merger, 
P g proposes to acquire approximately 17,000 shares of Clarendon and 
thereby restore its percentage ownership of the outstanding voting 
shares of Clarendon to 55.1 per cent; in your judgment, FG's effective 
c°utrol over the management and policies of Clarendon would "remain 
v. 
same" during and after the merger. On the basis of these facts, 
ask whether FG may acquire such 17,000 shares without prior Board 
approval. 
As vou know, § 3(a)(3) of the Act prohibits the acquisition, 
e*cept with the prior approval of the Board, of ownership or control 
o f the voting shares of'a bank by a bank holding company if, after 
*ucli acquisition, the bank holding company will own or control more 
5 per cent of the voting shares of the bank; § 3(a)(B) of the 
exempts from this prohibition "additional shares acquired by a 
b a c* holding company in a bank in which such bank holding company 
0wned or controlled a majority of the voting shares prior to such 
Acquisition". 
t 

2
1 
Guy Martin, Esquire 
-2-
The Board has considered your request and concludes that 
the exemption is not applicable to the stated facts. The Board 
recognizes that FG may be in a position to acquire 17,000 shares 
Clarendon without prior Board approval by effecting such acqui-
sition prior t:o the merger. However, if a holding company controls 
1gSS than the. majority of the voting shares of a bank, prior Board 
approval is required for an acquisition of further shares, even 
though the proposed acquisition is designed to restore the holding 
company to a percentage ownership of bank shares previously held by 
holding company. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Beard 
x 

2473 
Item No. 3 
9/14/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank Holding Company 
Financial Institutions, Inc., Warsaw, New York (''Financial"), a 
b a i* holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(5) of the Act 
^l2U.S.C. 1842(a)(5)) to merge Geneva Shareholders, Inc., Warsaw, 
York ("Geneva''), into Financial. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant presently controls three banks with aggregate deposits 
0f about $60 million and is the smallest multi-bank holding company in 
York- 7 Two of these banks are controlled indirectly by Financial through 
i t s ownership of approximately 76 per cent of the voting stock of Geneva 
Vhich» i n t u r n > o w n s OVer 97 per cent of the voting stock of the two banks. 
T h e Proposal by Financial to merge Geneva into itself is essentially a 
CorPorate reorganization and would have no effect on existing or future 
^Petition. 
The Board concludes that competitive considerations are 
C°nsistent with approval of the application. 
^ 
banking data are as of December 31, 1971. 

2474 
-2-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant and its subsidiary banks are generally satisfactory and 
insistent with approval of the application. Considerations relating to 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served are also 
insistent with approval of the application. The Board finds that the 
pr°posed application is in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
•.I . 
s Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
tlw 
8 Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— 
effective September 15, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
fSEAL] 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Da
 V° t i n8 
this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
at\e, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor 
^tcheu. 

2475 
Item No. 4 
9/14/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the 
v°ting shares of First Bank of Deltona, Deltona, Florida ("Deltona 
Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application, affording 
°PPortunity for interested persons to submit comments and views, 
h a s be^n given in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for 
comments and views has expired, and the Board has considered 
th 
e aPplication and all comments received in light of the factors 
S e t forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 15 banks with aggregate deposits of 
1 7 
billion> representing 7.21 per cent of the total commercial 
b a n k ^Posits held by Florida banks, and is the second largest 
b a n k i nS organization in the State. (All banking data are as of 
Member 31, 1971, and reflect acquisitions and formations approved through 
Auo 
8 U st 31, 1Q72.) The acquisition of Deltona Bank ($10.6 million 
p0sits) would increase Applicant's share of State deposits by .07 
eentage points, and would not significantly increase the 
c0ri Centration of banking resources on a local or Statewide basis. 

-2 
2473 
Deltona Bank holds 9.64 per cent of the area deposits as 
tlle smallest of the five banks located in the West Volusia banking 
market in central Florida. Two of the competing banks are sub-
diaries of Florida's second and third largest bank holding com-
Patlieo 
It appears that consummation of the proposed affiliation 
not adversely affect the other area banks. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary banking office and 
D e l t o n a Bank are 30 miles apart. No significant present competi-
n eXists between any of Applicant's present banking offices and 
°na Bank. In view of the wide separation of the banks, the 
P t G° e n c G of numerous intervening banking offices, and Florida's 
e°trictive branching laws, it also appears that no significant 
Potential competition would be eliminated by Applicant's proposed 
C q U i s i tion. Competitive considerations are, therefore, consistent 
Ui th 
^ approval of the application. 
Applicant has completed a financial review of its system 
n<1 hao formulated plans to increase the capital of its present 
Ubsidiaries a n d a l c o D e l t o n a Bank. Upon the completion of this 
Movement program, each of these banks will have adequate capital, 
of 
the proposed capital improvements, the financial condition 
applicant and its group of banks is deemed to be generally satis-
a C t o ry. The financial condition of Deltona Bank is also considered 
to 
generally satisfactory in view of Applicant's commitment to 
a s e its capital. Applicant, its banks, and the proposed 

2
1 
t / / 
-2-
Subsidiary have capable managements and their prospects appear favorable. 
Banking factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
The major banking needs of the area are presently served 
b y local banking offices. However, no trust services are presently 
available in the town of Deltona, and Applicant's assistance in 
establishing a trust department at Deltona Bank will serve the 
c°nvenience and need for such services in this retirement community. 
Applicant will also improve and expand the bank's services presently 
offered and enable it to compete on a more equal basis with the four 
larger area banks. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
0f ^ e communities to be served are consistent with and lend some support 
toVard approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the 
pr°Posed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
^Plication should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
teasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
be£or( 
:e the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
ei 
Otd 
Qrd 
e r or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
er> unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
th 
e Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 14, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
t)- V°ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
G0v
ne> trimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
srnor Mitchell. 

2478 
Item No. 5 
9/14/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston Texas, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of Executive National Bank, Houston, 
Te*as ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
acc°rdance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
Vie*s has expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
9 1 1 comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
t h e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls eight banks with aggregate deposits of 
9 b o u t $1.5 billion, representing approximately 4.9 per cent of the 
j 
1/ 
6poaits in commercial banks in Texas. 
Applicant presently operates 
f°ur of these banks in the Houston market and controls about 19 per 
r 
2/ 
e n t of that area's deposits. 
However, since Bank is a proposed new 
- inking data are as of December 31, 1971, 
^ 
T he Houston market is approximated by the Houston Standard 
etropolitan Statistical Area. 

2479 
-2-
hank, its acquisition by Applicant would not initially add to the 
Otter's control of banking resources in the Houston area, nor would 
a n y listing competition be eliminated. Moreover, given the nature 
o f 
Houston market, including the size of the market, its prospects 
growth. and the number of banks in the market, significant future 
c°ropetition should not be adversely affected by consummation of the 
pr°posed acquisition. Two banks, neither of which is a member of a 
folding company, are located within Bank's proposed service area. 
Th 
e Board concludes that consummation of the transaction will not have 
s*gnificantly adverse effect on competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
0 f Applicant and its subsidiary banks are generally satisfactory and 
C0r*3istent with approval of the application. Bank has no financial 
r °perating history. However, under Applicant's management Bank's 
sPects appear favorable. Considerations relating to the convenience 
needs of the community to be served lend some weight to approval of 
aPplication, since the service area of Bank should benefit from an 
d(iitional sources of services. The Board finds that the proposed 
CcIuisition is in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the 
teaaons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this 

3-
2480 
^is Order, and (c) Executive National Bank, Houston, Texas, shall be 
°pened for business not later than six months after the effective date 
o f this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be 
^tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
D a H a g pursuant to delegated authority. 
.3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 14, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
{SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
°aane> Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor 
^t che11. 

2481 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m 
9/14/72 
ARVCO, INC. 
Order Denying Application to Remain a Bank Holding Company 
and to Retain Shares of Bank 
Arvco, Inc., Arvada, Colorado, has applied for the Board's 
aPPtoval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(l)) to remain a bank holding company through the retention of 
53*065 per cent of the voting shares of Arvada State Bank, Arvada, 
C°lorado. 
Notice of receipt of the application, affording opportunity 
Uterested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
t e w a 
e:cpired, and the Board has considered the application and all 
c°niments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for 
1)0 reasons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date. Appli-
directed to take appropriate measures to effect a divestiture 
of 
Ca»t l s 
c°ntrol of Arvada State Bank, Arvada, Colorado. Applicant is further 
^ c t e d to report on the progress made toward said divestiture to the 
deral Reserve Bank of Kansas City not later than two months from the 
Off 
°ctive date of this Order. 
By order of the Board of Governors,—^ effective September 14, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
i/ VoTT 
Hl^cl 
8 f o r t h i s action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
man Burns and Governor Daane. 

^^ k i v Jf nJ 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATION BY ARVCO, INC., ARVADA, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL TO REMAIN A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
AND TO RETAIN BANK SHARES 
Arvco, Inc., Arvada, Colorado, has applied for the Board's 
approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(l)) t 0 remain a bank holding company through the retention 
o f 53,065 per cent of the voting shares of Arvada State Bank, Arvada, 
C°lorado ("Arvada Bank"). 
Statutory considerations. - Applicant states that it acquired 
53*065 per cent of the voting shares of Arvada Bank In January 1971 with-
°ut first obtaining Board approval required by the 1970 Amendments to the 
A c t' However, Applicant made timely application under the Board's Order 
o f June 22, 1971, which permits companies that acquired an interest in a 
b a r* between December 31, 1970, and June 22, 1971, without knowledge of 
the changes in the law, to apply by August 31, 1971, for a Board deter-
Nation that the acquisition was in the public interest. In this con-
ation. the Board required that the applications so filed would be in 
the form ordinarily required for requesting prior approval and would be 
detGrmined by the Board in accordance with the criteria established by 
the Act, 
Applicant was organized in 1962 as an insurance agency for 
the sale of credit life, health and accident insurance in connection 
^ t t h the lending activities of Arvada Bank. On January 29, 1971, 
A^Ucant acquired 13,797 of the 26,000 shares outstanding of Arvada 
B*nl< stock. 

2483 
-2-
Arvada Bank, organized in April 1962, holds deposits of 
million, representing 0.3 per cent of the total commercial bank 
j 
GP0sits in Colorado (all banking data are as of December 31, 1971). 
Arvada Bank ranks fortieth among banks located in the Denver Standard 
^Gtropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA"), and is only slightly larger 
than the other commercial bank located in the Arvada suburb of Denver. 
competitive issues are involved in this application which seeks 
Board approval of the present corporate ownership. 
A review of the financial resources of Applicant and Arvada 
Bank yn 
reveals that the acquisition debt can not be serviced adequately 
the proposed financial arrangements. Applicant proposes to 
nc*Gase the capital assets of Arvada Bank by an issuance and sale of 
the hint i 
s stock and debentures. However, the Board considers the 
pr°jected increase in capital as insufficient. In addition, Applicant 
l,°uld -t 
mcur substantial debt in order to finance the purchase of shares 
of the 
Proposed new issue. Applicant's only income is derived from 
rvada n 
Bank's dividends and receipts from insurance activities. Such 
in 
C°mG is deemed insufficient to service the present acquisition debt 
additional debt to be incurred in the proposed purchase of 
^rvada a 
oanlc shares. Under the circumstances presented here, the Board 
is q£ 
che opinion that the interests of the public are best served by 
d e n l a l °f the application. 
The banking needs of the area are presently being served, 
thp Proposal would not bring any additional benefits to the public. 

248-
-3-
°n fche contrary, the heavy acquisition debt could result in attempts 
the bank to assist in servicing the obligations of Applicant, 
thereby placing an additional strain on the resources of Arvada Bank. 
C°ttslderations relating to the convenience and needs of the communl-
tl 
^ s to be served lend no weight towards approval of the application. 
On the basis of the record, the Board finds that approval of 
4,1 
e aPplication would not be in the public interest and it is accord-
lnglV denied, 
Member 14, 1972 
1 

2485 
Item No. 7 
9/14/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PROVIDENT NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of John P. Maguire & Co., Inc. 
Provident National Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
appn e d for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225'4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
shares of John P. Maguire & Co., Inc. ("Maguire"), New York, New York, 
* c°topany that engages in the activities of factoring and related com-
erciai financing, including conditional sales financing. Such activities 
°een determined by the Board to be closely related to the business 
°f inking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Sor*s to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
b*en duly published (37 Federal Register 13218). The time for filing 
ients and views has expired, and none have been timely received. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank, Provident National Bank, Philadel-
» Pennsylvania ("Bank"), has total deposits of $1,045 billion and is 
the 
Phia 
fifth largest commercial bank in the city of Philadelphia, controlling 
3.3 
1/ 
p e r cent of deposits in that area. 
Maguire was acquired by Bank on 
"°ber 29, 1971, in a transaction approved by the Comptroller of the Currency 
* accordingly, became an indirect subsidiary of Applicant pursuant to 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. The proposed transaction would 
A
^ ePosit data are as of December 31, 1971. 

2486 
-2-
transfer direct ownership of Maguire from Bank to Applicant, which would 
change Maguire1s operating authority from § 4(c)(5) to § 4(c)(8). 
Under § 4(c)(5) Maguire is not authorized to conduct a full 
service factoring business at locations other than those at which Bank is 
authorized to engage in business, but rather is subject to the "loan 
Production" restriction inherrent in such authority (12 CFR 250.141). 
Board believes that when a bank holding company indirectly acquires 
a n°nbanking company through a subsidiary bank, pursuant to § 4(c)(5), 
a n d subsequently applies to the Board to acquire direct ownership of such 
nor*banking company and operate it pursuant to the broader authority of 
S 4(c)(8), the Board must consider the transaction as if the nonbanking 
Con»Pany was being acquired initially from an independent third party. 
Accordingly, in such circumstances the Board must find that neither the 
0rJ-ginal acquisition of the nonbanking company nor the Board's approval 
0f the § 4(c)(8) application would result in an undue concentration of 
Resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or 
Ul*sound banking practices. 
Maguire is primarily an old-line factoring company whose customers 
a t e Predominantly in the garment and carpet industries. Maguire also makes 
to clients secured by accounts receivable and engages in conditional 
Sales financing of equipment. Maguire has a factoring volume of approxi-
ltlately $625 million, derived primarily from the New England States, New 
Y 
North Carolina, and Oklahoma. On a national basis, Maguire ranks 
n i n th of twenty-nine factoring companies with 4.7 per cent of total corn-
e a l factored volume. 

2487 
-2-
Prior to the acquisition of Maguire by Bank, no subsidiary of 
Applicant had ever engaged in factoring. Bank or Applicant might have 
entered the factoring industry de novo, however, the level of risk in the 
industry and the need for highly specialized factoring skills made such 
ent*y unlikely. Although some loans made by Bank might be considered 
c°mpetitive with loans and advances made by Maguire, the majority of 
Quire's accounts originate in areas where Bank has few or no customers 
and the loans Bank derives from those areas is small in proportion to its 
total i o a n portfolio. On the basis of the record the Board finds that the 
pr°Posed acquisition of Maguire by Applicant would not have any significant 
Averse effect on either existing or potential competition in the factoring 
commercial finance businesses. 
There is no evidence in the record to indicate that the proposed 
actluisition of Maguire would lead to an undue concentration of resources, 
C°nflict of interest or unsound banking practices. Although it is unlikely 
'•hat the transaction will produce any significant new benefits to the 
^ l i c , the Board noted that Maguire has been able to obtain funds more 
easily an(j a t lower rates since its acquisition by Bank. Such gains in 
efficiency are consistent with the public interest considerations the Board 
U a t consider under § 4(c)(8). 
If this transaction is approved by the Board, Bank's ownership 
Maguire!s shares will be distributed to Applicant through a dividend 
n kind. Although this would have the effect of reducing Bank's equity 
CaPital significantly, the Board noted that subsequent to the filing of 

2488 
-2-
t^is appliction, Bank sold $21 million in capital notes in order, among 
°ther reasons, to replace the anticipated loss of capital funds represented 
Bank's owenrship of Maguire. Accordingly, the transaction will not 
cause Bank's overall capital position to fall below acceptable levels. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
t h e record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
f ^ 
actors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) are consistent 
with approval. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^termination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of 
^egulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
°r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its subsi-
diaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions 
and Purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued there-
or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective September 14, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
mmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

2483 
Item No. 
9/14/72 
. 
• 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
' W'^if!M iflWi? * 
WASHINGTON", D. C. 20551 
»< <vv" 
v' 
''f^tlK&f'.-' 
September 15, 1972 
James S. Dusenberry, Chairman 
federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Bostonj Massachusetts 02.106 
Doar Jim; 
Over the past year the Board has met on two occasions with 
businessmen selected from among the directors of the Federal Reserve 
^nks and Branches for the purpose of discussing topics of current 
interest such as the Phase II wage/price controls. The board believes 
a third such meeting would be desirable in the near future to discuss 
the impact which the Smithsonian currency realignments arid subsequent 
foreign exchange developments have had on the nation's foreign trade 
a^d capital investments. 
More specifically, the Board would appreciate hearing about 
evidence or impressions the businessmen directors may have with 
regard to the following: 
(1) The recent and prospective impact of the Smith-
sonian parity changes on U.S. imports and exports 
as reflected in particular industries or product 
lines; 
(a) the extent to which foreign suppliers may 
have, or are expected to, raise their prices 
in terms of dollars and the related willing-
ness of American consumers to absorb any 
resulting price increases at retail; 
(b) the degree of substitution of domestic for 
foreign sources of goods whose prices may 
have risen; 
(c) the extent to which American exporters are 
finding the devaluation helpful in expand-
ing export sales. 
(2) The extent to which fluctuations in exchange rates, 
or controls and restraints on capital flows, have 
interfered with normal trade and investment 
processes. 

V 
2490 
Mr. James S. Duesenberry 
-2-
(3) The effects of currency realignments on plans of 
American businessmen to invest abroad or foreign 
businesses to establish production facilities in 
the United States. 
(4) The over-all outlook for U.S. trade, either for 
specific industries, or more generally, and the 
major specific impediments to improvements. 
We hope that your Board will select one or two directors, who 
ate particularly knowledgeable and interested in these subjects, to 
Participate in a meeting with the Board on the afternoon of October 18. 
nning at noon in the Board Room, there will be a staff briefing and 
informal preparatory discussion for those directors whose schedule will 
Permit them to arrive before lunch. After a .1:00 p.m. luncheon with 
y°ard members and senior staff, the meeting will convene in the Board 
Room and will continue until perhaps 4:30 or 5:00 p.m. I would greatly 
appreciate it if you would undertake to canvass your businessmen direc-
t s and to inform me of your Bank's selection to attend the meeting. 
With kindest regards, 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
