MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 12, 19 72 

1480 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 12, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
i/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

1483 
6/12/72 
-1481-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on May 26; by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San Francisco on 
June 1; by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on June 6; and by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
st. Louis, and Dallas on June 8, 1972, of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Chase Manhattan 
Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, (1) granting consent 
t o acquire shares of Capital International S.A., Geneva, Switzerland, 
and to continue to hold those shares after the latter issues certain 
debt obligations up to a specified amount; but (2) denying the corpo-
ration's request for permission to continue to hold shares of Capital 
International after the latter acquires shares of other investment 
advisory companies, in excess of the general consent limitations, with-
°ut prior Board approval. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved the transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency of a report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Rockford National Bank, Rockford, Ohio, and The First 

14g2 
6/12/72 
-3-
National Bank of Celina, Celina, Ohio, the conclusion reading as 
follows: 
There is some competition existing between The Rockford 
National Bank and The First National Bank of Celina. However, 
the possibility of increased future competition between the 
banks appears somewhat remote due to Mercer County's low 
population per banking office. Overall, the effect of the 
proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
However, Governor Robertson felt that the effect of the proposed 
merger on competition would be adverse. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United 
Banks of Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of The 
Montrose National Bank, Montrose, Colorado, and authorized issuance 
o f an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
a S 
No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of The Jacobus 
Company and Inland Financial Corporation, both of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
t o acquire shares of Heritage Bank of Milwaukee, and authorized issuance 
o f an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
a s jtem_No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Banks regarding efforts to improve the quality and timeliness of the 
d a ta flow underlying the monetary aggregates. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 4. 

14g3 
6/12/72 
-4-
A modification of the Board's outstanding letter of instruc-
tions regarding telegraphic transfers of funds was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks is attached as 
jtemjjp. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Texas Commerce Bancshares. By order dated April 11, 1972, the 
Board denied the application of Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, 
Texas, to acquire shares of American National Bank, Beaumont, Texas. 
Texas Commerce Bancshares had now requested that the Board reconsider 
the application, and in a memorandum dated June 6 the Legal Division 
recommended that the Board grant the request. A draft order reflecting 
the recommendation was attached. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the order be revised to include 
the Board's reasons for reconsidering the application. 
The Board thereupon approved the request for reconsideration, 
a n d authorized issuance of an order incorporating Governor Brimmer's 
Su8gestion. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
Hawkeye Bancorporation. On May 18, 1972, the Board approved 
s i x applications and denied one application by Hawkeye Bancorporation, 
D e s Moines, Iowa, to acquire banks in Iowa. On June 2, 1972, during 
c°nsideration of documents that had been drafted to reflect those 

1484 
6/12/72 
-5-
actions, it was rioted that another bank holding company in Iowa 
anticipated acquiring the Hawkeye organization following consummation 
°f the proposals before the Board. Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
indicated that they were inclined to change their votes to denial 
because Hawkeye Bancorporation's principal officer had failed to 
mention negotiations for the possible sale of the holding company 
during discussions with members of the Board's staff. 
In a memorandum dated June 8 the Legal Division discussed the 
pr°Posal for the sale of the holding company, and concluded that the 
Uegotiations were not unlawful or unusual, and that the management of 
the company had not been obligated to furnish the Board's staff with 
formation about the negotiations in connection with the pending 
aPPlications. 
At today's meeting it was agreed that the applications would 
b e Reconsidered. Governors Robertson and Brimmer said that they would 
now vote to deny all of the applications because they had serious 
Nervations about the management of the holding company. 
The applications to acquire shares of the following Iowa banks 
W e r e approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting: Jasper 
County Savings Bank, Newton; First Federal State Bank, Des Moines; 
State Bank and Trust, Council Bluffs; The Clay County National Bank 

1483 
6/12/72 
-1485-
°f Spencer, Spencer; Camanche State Bank, Camanche; and The Citizens 
National Bank of Boone, Boone. The application to acquire shares of 
Kellogg Savings Bank, Kellogg, Iowa, was denied unanimously. The 
Board also authorized issuance of orders and a statement reflecting 
these decisions. Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. 7. 
Regulations D and J. On March 28, 1972, the Board published 
comment proposals to amend Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, 
and Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal 
Res erve Banks. The period for public comment had now ended, and docu-
mentation that had been prepared for the Board's consideration included 
the following: 
Memorandum dated June 2, 1972, from the Task Force on 
Regulations D and J, summarizing comments received and 
recommending modifications that would meet some of the 
objections cited in the comments. 
Memorandum dated May 31, 1972, from the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations, recommending that the Board proceed 
with the proposed revisions with certain modifications. 
Memorandum dated June 8, 1972, from the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations, regarding waiver of penalties for 
reserve deficiencies for present country banks that would 
suffer a loss from the adoption of the proposals. 
Memorandum dated June 8, 1972, from the Legal Division, 
regarding enforcing the amendments to Regulation J with 
respect to non-cooperating banks. 
At today's meeting Mr. Melnicoff said that the comments 
received indicated fewer objections than anticipated, although there 
had been many suggestions for modifications. The comments also 

8 
6/12/72 
-7-
indicated that a number of banks, especially those not served by most 
Federal Reserve offices and Federal Reserve Regional Check Processing 
Centers, would be adversely affected. The most frequent suggestion 
from small member banks was increased Federal Reserve services. 
If the Board wished to modify the proposals to meet the major 
Ejections raised, the Task Force recommended that: 
(1) an additional 
tranche of $10-$100 million be established on which the reserve require-
ment would be 12 per cent, and (2) the Reserve Banks be authorized to 
waive penalties on deficient reserves, above a certain threshold, on 
a decreasing basis until June 30, 1974. 
During discussion questions were raised about the banks that 
w°uld suffer the most severe losses in reserves. 
It was noted that 
the amount of reserves a bank would lose was not necessarily corre-
lated with the size of the bank. Governor Brimmer suggested that in 
°rder to help minimize reserve losses, it would be desirable to encourage 
the Reserve Banks to get Regional Check Processing Centers in operation 
a s soon as possible. Other members of the Board agreed with his sugges-
tion, and the staff was requested to prepare a draft letter to the 
Reserve Banks for the Board's consideration. 
Questions also were raised about enforcement of the amendments 
to Regulation J with respect to non-cooperating banks. Governor Mitchell 
reeommended that when a bank refuses to pay a check as prescribed by 

1487 
6/12/72 
-8-
Regulation J, the Regulation should permit either (1) charging the 
amount of the check to the sending bank, or (2) treating checks drawn 
nonparticipating banks as noncash items. Therefore, participating 
banks would encourage nonparticipating banks to pay checks on the day 
o f presentment. 
Continuing discussion indicated that a majority of the Board 
W as in favor of the proposed amendments to Regulation J. However, 
Governor Robertson said that although he was in favor of what the 
Board was trying to accomplish with the proposals, he felt that the 
current proposed amendment to Regulation D would benefit large banks 
m°re than they would be hurt by the proposed amendments to Regulation J. 
order to achieve a more equitable distribution, he proposed the 
following reserve requirements on net demand deposits: 8 per cent 
°n deposits under $2 million; 10 per cent on deposits between $2 
m i H i o n and $10 million; 12 per cent on deposits between $10 million 
arid $100 million; 13 per cent on deposits between $100 million and 
$200 million; and 17-1/2 per cent on deposits over $200 million. 
Several members of the Board indicated that they would like 
to have additional information on Governor Robertson's proposal before 
taking final action on the proposed amendments. Action was thereupon 
•inferred, with the understanding that appropriate tables would be 
prePared. 

1483 
6/12/72 
-1488-
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Report on competitive factors. The Board unanimously approved 
the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Dillsboro 
State Bank, Dillsboro, Indiana, into The First National Bank of Aurora, 
Aurora, Indiana, the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Dillsboro State 
Bank into The First National Bank of Aurora would eliminate 
some existing as well as the potential for greater competition 
between the banks. The resulting institution would rank first 
in the relevant market, holding about 36 per cent of deposits 
in Dearborn County. Overall, the effect of the proposal on 
competition would be adverse. 
H. R. 14779. The Office of Management and Budget had requested 
the Board's views on a draft letter from the Treasury Department 
commenting on H. R. 14779, a bill that would expand Federal Trade 
Commission jurisdiction over unfair and deceptive practices and give 
the Commission additional enforcement tools, including legislative rule 
taking authority. 
In a memorandum dated June 8, 1972, the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation discussed the Treasury letter and the proposed 
legislation. Attached was a draft letter to the Office of Management 
and Budget recommending that rule making authority over supervised 
financial institutions be centralized in a single banking agency, with 
enforcement authority divided among the banking agencies. 

1483 
6/12/72 
-10-
After discussion during which several suggested changes in 
the letter were considered, the Board deferred action until Chairman 
Burns could be present. 
A number of officers and staff of the research divisions joined 
the meeting at this point. 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented, 
CoPies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
Placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
Mr. Rippey reviewed matters of interest to the Board presently 
being considered by the Congress. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1431 
To « 
0 ; Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished through the Federal Reserve 
of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of CI. 
The Board also grants consent for CMOBC to continue to hold 
h e shares of CI after CI issues debt obligations with a maturity in 
C X c e ss of one year, so long as the total of such debt obligations out-
slanding at any one time does not exceed $5,000,000. 
The Board has denied your further request that CMOBC be per-
"^•tted to continue to hold shares of CI after CI makes other investments 
f hout the prior approval of the Board in investment advisory companies 
°tmed under foreign law. The Board has concluded that it should not 
fke individual exceptions to the general consent limitations in Sec-
l 0 n 211..8(a) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given on condition that the invest-
ent will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
ey apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National Association and its 
filiates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1492 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
6/12/72 
UNITED BANKS OF COLORADO, INC, 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Banks of Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Montrose National Bank, Montrose, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and none have been timely received. The Board has 
considered the application in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant owns 11 banks controlling aggregate deposits of 
about $692 million and is the second largest banking organization in 
Colorado, controlling 15.0 per cent of the deposits in commercial banks in 
1/ 
he State. 
Acquisition of Bank (approximately $7 million in deposits) by 
Applicant would increase its percentage share of deposits by less than two-
tenths of 1 percentage point, would not change Applicant's ranking among 
banking organizations in Colorado, and would not result in a significant 
increase in the concentration of banking resources in the State. 
A/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through May 31, 1972. 

1493 
-2-
There is no meaningful existing competition between Bank and 
any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries. The Rocky Mountains separate 
Montrose from 10 of Applicant's 11 subsidiaries, and serve as an 
effective barrier to the development of any substantial future compe-
tition between Bank and these subsidiaries. Applicant's only subsidiary 
located on the same side of the Rocky Mountains as Montrose is over 
60 miles away and, due to the existence of intervening banks and Colorado's 
branching laws, there is little likelihood that substantial competition 
will develop between it and Bank. The Board concludes that competitive 
considerations are consistent with approval of the application. 
Applicant proposes to raise equity capital in the near future, 
and considerations relating to the financial conditions, managerial 
resources, and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank 
are satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. Con-
siderations relating to the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served lend some weight toward approval of the acquisition since 
affiliation with Applicant will enable Bank to pursue an expansionary 
Policy likely to be needed for the accommodation of the anticipated in-
crease in economic activity in the Montrose area. It is the Board's 
judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis - of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

1434 
-2-
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 12, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Z.I Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Daane. 

1435 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
6/12/72 
THE JACOBUS COMPANY AND INLAND FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Jacobus Company ("Jacobus") and its majority owned 
subsidiary Inland Financial Corporation ("Inland"), both of Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, bank holding companies within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, have applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of 
fche Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 56.3 per cent or more of the 
Voting shares of Heritage Bank of Milwaukee, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
("Bank"). The acquisition will be made by Inland and as a result Jacobus 
w U l indirectly acquire voting shares of Bank. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
ar*d the Board has considered the applications and all comments received in 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicants control two banks with aggregate deposits of 
^Proximately $46 million, representing .5 per cent of the deposits in 
1/ 
commercial banks in Wisconsin. 
Acquisition of Bank (deposits of 
$23 million) would increase Applicants' percentage share of deposits in 
State by only .2 percentage points and would not result in a sig-
nificant increase in concentration of banking resources in Wisconsin. 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through May 31, 1972. 

1438 
-2-
Both of Applicants' banking subsidiaries are located in the 
Milwaukee area. However, there is little existing competition between 
these subsidiaries and Bank, and there is little likelihood of sub-
stantial future competition developing between Bank and Applicants' sub-
sidiaries due to the large number of intervening banks and Wisconsin's 
branching laws. Even after the acquisition of Bank, Applicants would 
control less than 2 per cent of area deposits and would be the eighth 
largest banking organization in the Milwaukee area. Competitive conse-
quences of the transaction are considered by the Board to be consistent 
with approval of the applications. 
Considerations relating to the financial condition, managerial 
resources and prospects of Applicants, their subsidiary banks, and Bank 
ate generally satisfactory and consistent with approval of the applica-
tions. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served also are consistent with approval of the applications. 
As noted in the Board's Order dated February 25, 1972 
(1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 306), approving Applicants' acquisition 
the voting shares of Heritage Bank-Mayfair, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, 
Jacobus has filed a declaration, pursuant to § 4(c)(12) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, that it will cease to be a bank holding company by January 1, 
^981. In addition, as the Board stated in the earlier Order, Jacobus has 
committed itself to divest itself of its interest in Inland within 90 days 
the passage of enabling legislation permitting distribution of Inland's 
shares to Jacobus shareholders on a tax free basis. 

1437 
-2-
On the basis of the record and in view of the aforesaid 
commitment, the applications are approved for the reasons summarized 
above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such period 
l s extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f Chicago pursuant to delegated authority, 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 12, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
V Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
G°vernor Daane. 

1438 
' • 
B • A R • OF G OVER M • R 5, 
• V 
OF THE 
' 
" 
Item No. 4 
' 6 ! ( [ > : ; ; F F . D E . R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/12/72 
Wiifc 
W A S H I N G T O N . D . C . 
2 D 5 5 I 
GEORGE W. M ITCHtL L 
MEMBER OF THE BDARH 
June 12, 197 2 
Mi*. Frank E. Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear Frank: 
After the February FOMC meeting, you will recall that the 
Board Committee on Financial Statistics met with available Reserve 
Bank Presidents to discuss current efforts to improve the quality 
and timeliness of the data flow underlying the monetary aggregates. 
Subsequently, you appointed a representative lo work with Mr. Ettin, 
of the Board staff, on this project and in March individual staff 
Meetings were held with each Reserve Bank. At Board staff request, 
in April your representative, Mr. Walter T. Sullivan, sent Mr. Ettin 
a detailed letter outlining specific actions to be taken by your Bank 
in the first phase of data improvement. 
The Board Committee on Financial Statistics has reviewed 
the status of the project and the individual Reserve Bank responses. 
We are encouraged about the possibilities for making significant 
improvement at relatively low cost and very much appreciate the coop-
eration that the project has received throughout the System. Almost 
all Reserve Bank representatives indicated that the first phase of 
this effort—quality edits, timely transmissions of aggregate data, 
and rapid transmission of micro data—can be rather promptly imple-
mented. 
The program for improving the timeliness and quality of data 
underlying the monetary aggregates is considered by the Board to be 
an important undertaking. Accordingly, we expect that the management 
of: each Bank would allocate adequate resources with this judgment in 
mind. 
If; in doing this, budgetary problems are encountered in 1972 
they should be called to the attention of Governor Sheelian, Chairman 
of the Board's Committee of Organization, Compensation and Building 
Plans. 
For 3 973, budget plans should take into account the continua-
tion of the current changes in procedures as well as a probable 
expansion in the number of large member banks reporting deposit data 

14 S3 
Mr. Frank E. Morris 
* 
~ 2~ 
daily (the so-called MARKSTAT-)) reporters). 
In addition, there may be 
need to increase moderately the number of country bank sample reporters 
in 1973. 
Mr. Walter T. Sullivan of your staff is informed as to the 
details of the reporting changes contemplated for 1973 as well as the 
specifics of the current phase now being .implemented. 
IDENTICAL LETTER SENT TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANKS AND TO THE FIRST VICE PRESIDENT OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 
OF SAN FRANCISCO 
Sincerely, 

loGO 
Item No. 5 
B O A R D 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
6/12/72 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E B E R V E B Y S T E M 
S-2201 
W A S H ! N G T O U , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
U O d r E S P U N D E N C C 
T D T H E 
U O A M D 
June 12, 19 72 
The Board has considered a request from the Conference of 
Vice Presidents that the Board modify its letter of July SO, .1971 
c°Uceruing Telegraphic Transfers of Funds (F.R.L.3. 11 270.05). 
The Board has agreed that the following language should be 
dieted from that letter: 
"Messages involving the transfers of funds sent 
by WX equipment or by commercial wires shall 
be sent in Federal Reserve code1', 
that the following language should be substituted: 
"Messages Involving the transfer of funds by 
TWX equipment or by commercial wires shall be 
sent in Federal Reserve code. However, when 
TWX equipment is used as backup in the event of 
failure on the Federal Reserve communications 
system, transmissions to and from Culpeper may 
be in clear language," 
You will receive shortly procedures for using TWX for 
Urgency Communications through Culpeper, which have been approved by 
appropriate System Commitcees and which are intended to prevent 
Authorized use of the facility. 
Very truly yours, 
j 
Tynan Smith 
' 
Secretary 
THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND THE VICE PRESIDENTS 
^ CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

15G1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
6/12/72 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Granting Request for Reconsideration 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, has requested 
reconsideration of the Order of April 11, 1972, xrtiereby the Board of 
Governors denied the application of Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
for prior approval for the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of American National Bank 
o f Beaumont, Beaumont, Texas ("American Bank"), pursuant to section 
3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)). 
A companion Order of April 11, 1972, granted approval to Applicant for 
the acquisition of shares of Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, Texas 
("State Bank"). 
Pursuant to S 262.3(f)(6) of the Board's Rules, Applicant 
requests reconsideration of its original proposal which sought the 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of American Bank and, in conjunction therewith, 
the acquisition of 37 per cent of the shares of State Bank. A 
trusteed affiliate of American Bank, through its trustees, holds 
per cent of the outstanding voting shares of State Bank. In-
formation contained in the original applications failed to inform 
the Board that the proposed acquisition of shares of State Bank was 
contingent upon, and sought only in connection with, an acquisition 
of 
American Bank. In its Request for Reconsideration, Applicant 
states that no attempt has been made to determine the separate asset 

1502 
-2-
Value of shares of State Bank held by trustees for the benefit of 
shareholders of American Bank; that no representatives of State Bank 
Uere approached in connection with or made parties to the acquisition 
agreement between Texas Commerce and American Bank; and that Texas 
Commerce has been advised by directors of both State and American 
Banks and by the trustees holding shares of State Bank that they will 
Either consider nor cooperate with any efforts towards an acquisition 
bV Texas Commerce of State Bank separate from acquisition of American 
Sank. 
In its earlier consideration of Applicant's proposals, the 
^°ard treated the separate application to acquire shares of State 
as a transaction having some prospect of consummation independently 
from acquisition of shares of American Bank, The Board finds that 
^consideration of Applicant's proposed acquisitions is warranted on 
t h s basis of facts presented. Accordingly, the Request for Reconsiders-
t:*-0n is hereby approved. 
Applicant states that it has not Applied for, and does not 
an acquisition of shares of Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, 
e*as, apart from an acquisition of shares of American National 
Sank of Beaumont. Accordingly, the Board's Order of April 11, 1972, 
granted to Applicant approval of the acquisition of shares of 
b 
°eaumont State Bank is vacated. 

-2-
1503 
Comments and views regarding the proposed acquisitions 
may be filed with the Board not later than June 30, 1972. Com-
munications should be addressed to the Secretary, Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551. 
The applications, as supplemented by Applicant's Request for 
^consideration, may be inspected at the office of the Board of 
Governors or at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective June 12, 
1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^itchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Daane. 

1504 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o . 7 
6/12/72 
HAWKEYE BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Hawkeye Bancorporation, Des Moines, Iowa, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting 
shares (less directors1 qualifying shares) of Jasper County Savings 
Bank, Newton, Iowa ("Newton Bank"); 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of First Federal State Bank, Des Moines, Iowa ("Des 
Moines Bank"); 88.5 per cent or more of the voting shares of State 
fiank and Trust, Council Bluffs, Iowa ("Council Bluffs Bank"); 81.7 
cent of the voting shares of The Clay County National Bank of 
sPencer, Spencer, Iowa ("Spencer Bank"); 50.6 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Camanche State Bank, Camanche, Iowa ("Camanche Bank"); 
ar*d 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Citizens National 
Bank of Boone, Boone, Iowa ("Boone Bank"). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the applications and 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

-2-
1595 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
1/ 
for the reasons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date.-' 
The transactions shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective June 12, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i/ The Statement also reflects Board action of this date denying an 
aPPlication by Hawkeye Bancorporation to acquire all of the outstanding 
v°ting shares of Kellogg Savings Bank, Kellogg, Iowa. 
If Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Sheehan, 
Bucher. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

1506 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
HAWKEYE BANC0RP0RATI0N 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
Hawkeye Bancorporation, Des Moines, Iowa, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
A ct (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of Kellogg Savings 
B ank, Kellogg, Iowa ("Kellogg Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
a°cordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
an<* all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C, 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for 
the reasons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date. 
By order of the Board of G o v e r n o r s ^ effective j u n e 1 2 > 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Noting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
chell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting; 
Pernor Daane. 

1507 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATIONS BY 
HAWKEYE BANCORPORATION, DES MOINES, IOWA 
ACTIONS ON ACQUISITION OF BANKS 
Nature of transaction. - Hawkeye Bancorporation, Des Moines, 
Iowa, a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 100 
cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
Jasper County Savings Bank, Newton, Iowa ("Newton Bank"), and of 
K e llo g g Savings Bank, Kellogg, Iowa ("Kellogg Bank"); 80 per cent or 
m°re of the voting shares of First Federal State Bank, Des Moines, 
Iowa ("Des Moines Bank"); 88.5 per cent or more of the voting shares 
o f State Bank and Trust, Council Bluffs, Iowa ("Council Bluffs Bank"); 
per cent of the voting shares of The Clay County National Bank of 
SPencer, Spencer, Iowa ("Spencer Bank"); 50.6 per cent or more of the 
v°ting shares of Camanche State Bank, Camanche, Iowa ("Camanche Bank"); 
0 n d 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Citizens National 
B a nk of Boone, Boone, Iowa ("Boone Bank"). Control of five -)f the 
Proposed subsidiary banks is currently held by separate entities 
0t§anized and controlled by Applicant's President and/or his associates.^ 
A 
summation of these five proposals will be accomplished through merger 
1/ 
C0 Newton Banshares, Inc., Newton; Kellogg Banshares, Kellogg; State 
c ^ p a n y j Council Bluffs; Spencer Banshares, Inc., Red Oak; and 
^toanche Banshares, Camanche, are entities located in Iowa that control, 
fian^eCtively, 
N e w t o n B a n k » K e l l o S g Bank, Council Bluffs Bank, Spencer 
and Camanche Bank. 

-2-
1508 
°f two of the holding companies into Applicant and by the acquisition 
°f the voting shares of the remaining three entities. 
In each case, 
the shares of the banks involved will be acquired by Applicant. 
Con-
trolling shares of the remaining two banks would be effected by direct 
acquisition by Applicant. 
While each of the applications has been separately considered 
the proposed acquisition of Kellogg Bank is subject to a separate 
Board Order, because of certain common facts and circumstances this 
Statement contains the Board's findings and conclusions with respect 
t o all the applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Applicant presently controls six 
hanks with aggregate deposits of about $107 million, and is the seventh 
largest banking organization and fourth largest bank holding company 
In Iowa with 1.6 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the State. 
T°tal deposits of Newton Bank are $30.0 million; Kellogg Bank, $8.0 
Million; Des Moines Bank, $23.4 million; Council Bluffs Bank, $30.1 
million; Spencer Bank, $14.1 million; Camanche Bank, $2.4 million; and 
Boone Bank, $17.8 million. Consummation of the seven proposed 
acquisitions would more than double the volume of total deposits con-
tr°lled by Applicant, and Applicant would become the third largest 
inking organization and bank holding company in the State.— 
>/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect bank 
°lding company formttions and acquisitions approved by the Board 
trough May 31, 1972. 

-3 
1509 
Newton Bank and Kellogg Bank are the largest and fourth 
largest of nine banks competing in the Jasper County banking market, 
w*th 38.5 per cent and 10.3 per cent, respectively, of total market 
deposits• Newton Bank, by far the largest bank in the market, 
serves the county's only sizeable city and the headquarters for the 
Maytag Company, the city's primary employer; nine miles to the east 
i s Kellogg Bank, with no intervening banking alternatives between 
i j, 
c and Newton Bank. These two proposed subsidiaries were owned and 
°Perated by the Maytag family and their interests, and have been 
^filiated for over 45 years. In commenting on these proposals, the 
department of Justice stated the view that "while the acquisition of 
either [Newton] Bank or Kellogg Bank by Hawkeye would not appear to 
Present serious competitive effects, its acquisition of both banks 
w°uld have an adverse effect on competition." The Board concurs in 
th 
e Department's position. In view of the long-standing affiliation 
o f the two banks it is obvious that acquisition of both banks by 
applicant would not eliminate significant existing competition; and 
i f these banks were to become controlled by separate competing banking 
institutions it could be expected that competition would develop 
etVeen them, there being no other competing commercial banks in the 
itit 
Evening area, and the record indicating that these banks' primary 
e rvi c e areas do overlap. Thus, acquisition of only one bank would 
to have a procompetitive effect in the relevant market by severing 
the 
e Present affiliation, with the resulting creation, reasonably 

-2-
1510 
anticipated, of an additional banking alternative for area residents. 
It appears to the Board that acquisition of Kellogg Bank would fore-
close existing competition between that Bank and a present subsidiary 
bank of Applicant's in Pella, which is located only 18 miles southwest 
of Kellogg Bank's Sully branch. The Board views the acquisition of 
Kellogg alone as having more serious anticompetitive consequences 
than xtfould the acquisition of only Newton Bank. Accordingly, the Board 
concludes that acquisition of Kellogg Bank, with its likely anti-
competitive consequences relating principally to future competition, 
should be denied. 
Des Moines Bank is the seventh largest of 18 banking 
organizations competing in the Des Moines banking market, approxi-
mated by the Des Moines SMSA, and controls 2.5 per cent of deposits 
in that market. Council Bluffs Bank is also the seventh largest 
banking organization in its market, and competes with 34 banking 
organizations in the Omaha-Council Bluffs banking market, approxi-
mated by Douglas and Sharpy Counties, Nebraska, and Pottawattamie 
County, Iowa. In its market, Council Bluffs Bank holds 2.4 per cent 
of market deposits. The proposed acquisitions, representing 
Applicant's initial entry into these markets, offer no apparent 
anticompetitive consequences, but rather, are likely to have 
Ptocompetitive effects, since the proposed subsidiaries will then be 
able to compete more effectively with the substantially larger banking 

-3 
1511 
organizations now operating in the relevant markets (Northwest 
Bancorporation and Central National Bank and Trust in the Des Moines 
Market, and Omaha National Bank and Northwest Bancorporation in the 
Omaha-Council Bluffs market). Neither of these banks presently 
competes with existing or proposed subsidiaries of Hawkeye. 
Camanche Bank, located in the Clinton County banking 
^rket, is the tenth-ranking and smallest bank in that market, con-
trolling 2.2 per cent of market deposits. Applicant's present 
8ubsidiary, First National Bank of Clinton, the largest bank in the 
Market with 28 per cent of market deposits, is located only six 
miles from Camanche Bank. Considering the number of banks competing 
itt the relevant market, the nonaggressive nature of Bank's operations, 
ar*d its relatively small size, it seems unlikely the two banks would 
ever become meaningful competitors. The minimal existing and potential 
c°mpetition that would be eliminated constitutes but a slightly adverse 
c°nsideration. 
Spencer Bank and Boone Bank are the largest banks in their 
^levant banking markets holding, respectively, 28 per cent of Clay 
G°unty banking market deposits, and 37 per cent of Boone County banking 
Market deposits. In the case of Spencer Bank, there are seven other 
competing banking institutions; the second and third largest of which 
c°ntrol, respectively, 24 per cent and 20.7 per cent of total market 
^eposits, Boone Bank competes with three other banks, the second largest 

-2-
1512 
of which is only slightly smaller than Boone, controlling 33.4 per cent 
°f market deposits. In each instance no existing competition would be 
eliminated by these acquisitions as the nearest present or proposed 
subsidiary of Applicant's is situated about 70 miles northwest at 
R°ck Rapids in the case of Spencer Bank, and 45 miles south at Des 
Moines in the case of Boone. Neither acquisition would appear to 
have an adverse effect on potential competition. Applicant proposes 
to make Boone Bank a more meaningful competitor by offering a wider 
variety of services which should have a procompetitive effect on the 
Market. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
fchat the competitive effects of the proposed acquisitions, with the 
eXception of Kellogg Bank, are consistent with approval of the 
applications. 
Certain aspects of Applicant's management history have been, 
the Board's judgment, less than satisfactory. However, on the 
kasis of changes already made and the further assurances given by 
Applicant with respect to future management practices and policies, 
^actors relating to Applicant's management are now regarded as 
Sstierally satisfactory, Management of the present and proposed 
Subsidiary banks appears reasonably satisfactory, and the prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Banks, appear favorable. 
Applicant's present financial condition is considered 
Generally satisfactory; however, the proposed acquisitions entail 

-7 
151 
the assumption by Applicant of additional debt. In recognition of this 
situation, Applicant has committed itself to a public sale of stock 
designed to raise $5 million. It is proposed by Applicant that the 
Proceeds from this stock sale will be used to retire some of Appli-
cant's existing short-term debt and finance most of the acquisition 
cost of the proposed subsidiaries. The remainder of Applicant's 
short-term debt will be refinanced through the sale of debentures 
Within three years. Applicant's present subsidiary banks are in 
satisfactory condition and their future prospects appear favorable. 
Ihe financial condition of the proposed subsidiary banks is considered 
generally satisfactory; however, in the case of the proposed Des Moines 
hank, Applicant intends to provide additional capital in the form of 
capital stock to keep pace with that bank's rapid deposit growth. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are generally 
consistent with approval of the applications. To the extent that 
consummation of the proposed acquisitions will facilitate the raising 
o f additional capital - thus improving Applicant's financial condition 
and increasing its ability to assist its subsidiary banks with respect 
t o future capital needs, this consideration lends some weight toward 
approval of the applications. 
Consummation of the proposed acquisitions will permit 
higher loan limits through loan participation arrangements. 
In 
addition. according to Applicant's proposals, each of the communities 
Involved will be afforded computer, trust, and investment management 

1514 
-2-
services; arid the proposed subsidiary banks will have available, where 
deeded, assistance in marketing bond issues, and in management suc-
cession and training. Contemplated improvements in auditing procedures 
practices of the proposed subsidiaries, and standardization of 
forms, procedures, and systems,- should benefit the banks and increase 
their effectiveness in serving their communities. Based on the fore-
going, it i s t h e Board's view that considerations of convenience and 
needs lend some weight for approval of the applications, and that, 
with the exception of the Kellogg Bank proposal, any anticompetitive 
consequences inherent in the proposed acquisitions are clearly outweighed 
the probable effect of the transactions in meeting the convenience 
needs of the communities to be served. The likely adverse competi-
tive consequences that would attend the Kellogg Bank acquisition are 
n°t outweighed by benefits to the community to be served. 
Conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts before it, 
th 
e Board concludes that the proposed acquisitions of Newton Bank, Des 
^°ines Bank, Council Bluffs Bank, Spencer Bank, Camanche Bank, and 
Bo ° ne Bank would be in the public interest and these applications should 
bg 
approved. The proposed acquisition of Kellogg Bank would not be in 
th 
e Public interest and that application should be denied. 
J*me 12, 1972. 
