MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 26, 1971 
i • * 2 r 

2170 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, August 26, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Mitchell, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Solomon.,, •Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmi11, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia and Miss Key, Technical 
Assistants, Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a letter to 
oc-ltjr 
»acfti-yii chut tiutviiuictu 
A 
>v oi rhc- a 
u acinched 
Bo ston Overseas Financial Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, granting 
consent to purchase additional shares of Randolph-Boston Overseas 
Holdings S.A., Luxembourg. A copy of the letter is attached as 
.Item No. 1. 
HitiHihi--)hi . s - ~ k , 
£ 
Hit 
• > b^eor.W 
holding conym nit.: 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to First National City 
l-j : :-: ; .. . : ui — ' 
iu ' 
\i:etQS. Qu,: 
Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 

2180 
8/26/71 
-2-
to purchase shares of Executive Leasing Corporation, San Juan, Puerto 
Rico, and to continue to hold those shares after Executive Leasing 
Corporation issues certain debt instruments. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Chase Manhattan 
Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, granting its request 
for partial relaxation of reporting requirements. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mercantile 
Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to acquire shares of The 
Chestertown Bank of Maryland, Chestertown, Maryland, and authorized 
the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Alamo Banc-
shares, Inc., San Antonio, Texas, to become a bank holding company by 
acquiring shares of the successor by merger to The Alamo National Bank 
of San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas, and authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
Today's consent calendar called for consideration of the 
applications of The Sanwa Bank Limited, Osaka, Japan, and The 
Mitsubishi Bank, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, to become bank holding companies 
by acquiring shares of proposed new banks in the United States. 
Questions 

2181 
8/26/71 
-3-
were raised whether the Board would be able to exercise control over 
the proposed subsidiary banks, which would not be members of the Federal 
Reserve System, and regarding the Board's responsibility for operations 
of foreign banks in the United States. It was understood that the staff 
would explore those questions, after which the applications would be 
docketed for full discussion. Action was therefore deferred. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Girard International. The Board unanimously approved a letter 
to Girard International Investment Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania, granting consent to purchase shares of Penn Financial Limited, 
to be formed ins London, England, and to continue to hold those shares 
after Penn Financial Limited acquires shares of Penn Sharp Associates 
Ltd., also to be formed in London. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
Southern Ohio Bank. In a memorandum of August 17, 1971, the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended approval of 
the request of The Southern Ohio Bank, Cincinnati, Ohio, for permission 
to maintain reduced reserves. Draft letters to the applicant and to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland were attached. 
After a discussion during which changes in language were agreed 
upon, the letters were approved unanimously in the form attached as 
Iterns 7 and 8. 

2182 
8/26/71 
-4-
Barnett Banks of Florida. In a memorandum dated August 16, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, 
Florida, to acquire shares of Central Bank in Fort Lauderdale, Fort 
Lauderdale, Florida. In a memorandum of August 24, the Division 
commented on the premium involved in the transaction, which was not 
considered excessive. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
the issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 9. 
Tax relief related to divestitures. 
The Board approved 
unanimously a letter to the Office of Management and Budget commenting 
on a proposed bill to provide tax relief in connection with divestitures 
required under the 1970 Bank Holding Company Act amendments. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 10. 
The meeting proceded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Possible substitute for VFCR. In a memorandum of August 25, 
1971, Governor Brimmer suggested that current circumstances might pro-
vide the best opportunity likely to occur for some time to cancel the 
present Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program. Although his 
fundamental preference would be to have no controls on United States 
capital outflows, he mentioned considerations indicating that it would 

218 
8/26/71 
-5-
be necessary to continue some form of controls. 
He had requested the 
staff to explore the possibility of substituting the interest equaliza-
tion tax for the VFCR, and a memorandum from Mr. Gemmill responding to 
that request was attached. 
If the Board agreed, Governor Brimmer pro-
posed to take up that possibility with the Treasury Department. 
Discussion indicated general agreement with the approach 
suggested in Mr. Gemmill's memorandum, although editorial changes 
should be made before the paper was transmitted to the Treasury Depart-
ment. 
Other comments emphasized the desirability of making clear to 
the Department in the present environment that the Board was not in 
' 
- 
' 
) 
<, 
• 
. 
, •.' • ; • • . • 
• • 
favor of continuance of the VFCR. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the staff was requested to 
draft a letter to the Treasury Department and to revise Mr. Gemmill's 
memorandum for the Board's further consideration with a view to its 
transmittal to the Department. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
OF 
GOVE.RNCDRS 
2184 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
8/26/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 26, 1971 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
67 Milk Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 29, 1971, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BOFC") 
to purchase and hold up to 50 per cent of the shares of Randolph-
Boston Overseas Holdings S.A. ("RBOH"), Luxembourg, at a cost of 
approximately $400,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of RBOII by BOFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That BOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in RBOII if RBOII at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permis-
sible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Re-
serve Act could, with the consent of the Board of 
Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if RBOH 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in Luxembourg 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to BOFC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
BOFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of RBOH as it may re-
quire from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
RBOII be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regula-
tion K in the same manner as if RBOH were a corpora-
tion organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 

2185 
Boston Overseas 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and reivew, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by RBOII in Luxembourg 
in the currency of that country. 
Your attention is also directed to the Board's recent 
interpretation regarding leasing activities of Edge Corporations 
and their subsidiaries. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of RBOH. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to The First National Bank of Boston and 
its subsidiaries, and that full consideration is being given to the 
priorities for U.S. export financing and for meeting the credit needs 
of developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
2 I S G 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
8/26/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 26, 1971 
First National. City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen; 
As requested in your letter of August 2, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC"): (1) to 
purchase and hold 50 per cent of the capital stock of Executive 
Leasing Corporation ("ELC"), San Juan, Puerto Rico, at a cost of 
approximately $228,000, and (2) to continue to hold the shares of 
ELC after ELC issues debt instruments with maturities in excess of 
one year in an amount up to approximately $10,000,000. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of ELC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of ELC if ELC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, could with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if ELC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Puerto Rico or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of ELC as it may require from time to time; 
and 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by ELC be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if ELC were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

2 1 8 7 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board -
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by ELC in Puerto Rico 
in the currency of the Commonwealth. 
Your attention is also directed to a recent interpretation 
issued by the Board relating to leasing activities. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of ELC. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

.•oor cowV. 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
2188 
Item No. 1 
8/26/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
August 26., 1971 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of June 29, 1.971, 
the Board of Governors has reviewed your reporting re-
quirements for stock acquisitions and dispositions by 
Banco Lar Brasileiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
The Board 
has concluded that where, in accordance with the special 
economic development provisions of the Brazilian tax law, 
Banco Lar Brasileiro has acquired stock through the use 
of funds otherwise due as taxes, only the following in-
formation need be supplied: 
name and general business of 
the company whose stock is acquired, the number of shares 
acquired, and the amount paid for the stock. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
8/26/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D , C , 
^ the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
MERCANTILE BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
' 
Baltimore, Maryland,
 
1 
approval of acquisition of 80 per ' 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
The Chestertown Bank of Maryland,
 
t 
Chestertown, Maryland.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Mercantile Bankshares 
Corporation ("Applicant"), Baltimore, Maryland, a registered bank 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
°f 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Chestertown Bank 
o f Maryland ("Bank"), Chestertown, Maryland. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
W r l-tten notice of receipt of the application to the Maryland 

219 0 
-2-
Bank Commissioner, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Deputy Bank Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on July 10, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13004), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
W a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
c°nslderation. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
a n d all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
t h e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
e£fect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
t t l e banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the sixth largest banking organization in Maryland, 
c°ntrols four banks which hold combined deposits of approximately 
million, representing 4.9 per cent of the total commercial bank 
j 
ePoslts held by Maryland banks. (All banking data are as of 
M e m b e r 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and 
a c q u i g i t i o n g through July 31, 1971.) Upon acquisition of The 
e®tertown Bank of Maryland ($16 million deposits), Applicant would 
i n ctease its share of deposits in the State by only 0.3 percentage 
P o t n t s , representing no significant increase In Applicant's control 
f deposits in the State, or change in its present ranking. 

Bank operates its main office in Chestertown and a branch 
3ixteen miles northeast in the town of Galena, both of which are 
located in Kent County. A second branch is located in the community 
Church Hill, in Queen Annes County, nine miles southeast of 
the main office. In the northern one-half of Queen Annes County 
and all of Kent County (Bank's relevant market), Bank holds the 
largest amount, or 28.4 per cent, of deposits; however, there are 
aeven banking organizations competing in said market, including 
the largest and the fifth largest banking organizations in the 
State. Applicant's subsidiary office closest to Bank is located 
miles away via a toll bridge across the Chesapeake Bay, and 
apparently no significant present competition exists between 
Bank and this office, or any of Applicant's other offices. It 
not appear that consummation of this proposal would fore-
close significant potential competition in the light of the 
facts of record, notably, the distances involved and the 
^likelihood that Applicant would enter Bank's market de novo. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposed acquisition would represent 
the third entry of a State-wide banking organization into the 
a t e a , and it does not appear that any of the competing banks 
w°uld be adversely affected thereby. 
Based upon the foregoing, and the record before it, 
Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
w°uld not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant 
Market. The banking factors, as they relate to Applicant, its 

-2-
subsidiaries, and Bank, and considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served, are regarded as consistent 
with approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that 
c°nsummation of the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons summarized above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
a cquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
^ a n three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
i s extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
^
anlc of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 26, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
o Kj 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

• 
2 1 9 O 
Item No. 1 
8/26/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
ALAMO BANCSHARES, INC., 
San Antonio, Texas, 
for approval of action to become 
a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
Voting shares (less directors' qual-
ifying shares) of the successor by 
merger to The Alamo National Bank of 
San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Alamo Bancshares, Inc., San 
Antonio, Texas, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisi-
tion of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualify-
ing shares) of the successor by merger to The Alamo National Bank 
of San Antonio ("Bank"), San Antonio, Texas. 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a vehicle for the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. 

21S4 
-2-
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor 
organization is treated as a proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and requested his views and recoinnendation. The Comp-
troller offered no objection to approval of this application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 13, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13066), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for itfl.consid-
eration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and manager-
ial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks con-
cerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, 
and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the pur-
pose of acquiring Bank as a subsidiary. Bank with approximately $169 
million of deposits holds 11 per cent of commercial bank deposits in 
the San Antonio market and is the third largest banking organization 
in that market, which is approximated by the San Antonio SMSA. 

2 I & 
-2-
As Applicant has no present operations or subsidiaries, consummation of 
this proposal would eliminate neither existing nor potential competition 
nor does it appear that there would be any adverse effects on any bank 
in the market a r e a . 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Bank are regarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval as 
W o u l d 
b e those of Applicant upon acquisition of Bank. Consummation of 
the proposal would have no immediate effect on the convenience and needs 
the community involved, but should enable Applicant to respond to the 
increasing needs of the growing San Antonio market by offering new and 
e*Panded services in banking and bank-related activities. It is the 
board's judgment that consummation of the proposal would be in the 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) be-
r e the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such per-
is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Batik of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 26, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson and Daane. 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

B O A R D 
D F G D V E R N D R S 
2 4 
• F THE 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/26/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 26, 1971 
Girard International 
% " 
Investment Corporation 
One Girard Plaza 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19102 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of May 26, July 23, and 
August 3, 1971, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("GIIC") to purchase and hold all of the shares of 
Penn Financial Limited ("PFL") to be formed in London, England, 
at a cost of approximately $240,000, and to continue to hold the 
shares of PFL after PFL acquires up to 76 per cent of the shares 
of Penn Sharp Associates Ltd. ("PSA") to be formed in London, 
England, at a cost of approximately $36,600, provided 25 per cent 
of the shares of PFL and all the shares of PSA are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of PFL by GIIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) 
Tliat GIIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in PFL if PFL at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if PFL establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
the United Kingdom or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to GIIC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, GIIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of PFL as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by PFL be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if PFL were a corporation organized 
under Section 2.5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

2 1 9 7 
Girard International 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by PFL in the United 
Kingdom in the currency of that country. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of PSA by PFL is granted subject to the same conditions 
set forth in the second paragraph of this letter with the substitution 
of PSA for PFL. 
In granting this consent the Board has determined 
that the activities contemplated for PSA as an international tax 
consultant are usual in the business of merchant banking in the United 
Kingdom and as such are permissible for an Edge Corporation subsidiary 
in that country,, 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia, with copies o<f Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of PFL and PSA 0 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to Girard Trust Bank and its other subsidiaries 
and that full consideration is being given to the priorities for U.S. 
export financing and for meeting the credit needs of developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2198 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
8/26/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A O O R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O D R E S P O N O E N C C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 27, 1971 
Board of Directors 
The Southern Ohio Bank 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
Gentlemen: 
W i t h reference to your request through the Federal 
Reserve B a n k of Cleveland, the Board of Governors, acting under 
the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve A c t , grants 
permission to The Southern Ohio Bank to maintain the same reserves 
against .deposits as are required to be maintained by member banks 
not in a reserve city. 
This permission becomes effective with 
the first reserve computation period beginning after the date of 
this letter. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such permission 
is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

I 
2 1 9 9 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
8/26/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R C S P U N O E N C t 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 27, 1971 
Mr. Harry W . lluning 
Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Cleveland, Ohio 
44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
Reference is made to your letter of August 4, 1971, recom-
mending that The Southern Ohio Bank, Cincinnati, Ohio, be permitted 
to maintain the same reserves against deposits as are required to be 
maintained by banks not located in a reserve city. 
After consideration of the information submitted, particu-
larly with reference to the present character of the bank's business, 
the Board of Governors concurs in the recommendation of your Bank 
and, pursuant to the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, grants permission to The Southern Ohio Bank, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
to maintain the same reserves against deposits as are required to be 
maintained by member banks outside of reserve cities. This permis-
sion becomes effective with the first reserve computation period 
beginning after the date of this letter. 
The Board noted that, since the bank is one of the five 
downtown banks in Cincinnati, has recently become a member bank, and 
is a subsidiary of a bank holding company, the character of the 
bank's business may be in the process of changing. 
Consequently, 
your Bank should review the situation after the lower reserve re-
quirements have been in effect about two years. 
Please advise the 
Board of your assessment at that time. 
Please forward the enclosed letter addressed to the subject 
bank. A copy is enclosed for your file. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Enclosures 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2200 
Item No. 1 
8/26/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
C e n t or more of the voting shares of 
Central Bank in Fort Lauderdale, 
Lauderdale, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett Banks 
o f Florida, Inc. ("Applicant"), Jacksonville, Florida, a registered 
b a n k holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acqui-
sition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Central Bank 
i n Fort Lauderdale ("Bank"), Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
B anking of the State of Florida, and requested his views and recom-
mendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the application, 

2201 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on June 26, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12191), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
aPplication was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
°f the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and mana-
gerial resources of Applicant and the banks concerned, and the con-
venience and needs of the communities to be served and finds that: 
Applicant presently controls 26 banks which hold aggregate 
deposits of $785 million, representing 5.6 per cent of total commercial 
bank deposits held by Florida's banks, and is the State's third largest 
hanking organization. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, 
and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
the Board through July 31, 1971.) Applicant's acquisition of Bank, 
w i t h deposits of approximately $13 million, would not represent a 
s i8nificant increase in Applicant's share of total deposits in the State. 
The area served by Bank has an estimated population of 
^52,000 and is comprised of the City of Fort Lauderdale and a small 
a djacent area west of the city. Bank, as the second smallest of the 
area banks, controls only 1.7 per cent of the total deposits of 

-2-
22c 
over $751 million in the area. Bank's sole office is located within 
a few blocks of three large banks in downtown Fort Lauderdale that 
have combined deposits of over $384 million, representing 51 per cent 
°f total deposits in the area. No significant competition exists 
between any of Applicant's group of banks and Bank. Applicant's sub-
sidiary closest to Bank is located 11 miles south of Fort Lauderdale 
in Hollywood, Florida. In the intervening area, there are six banks, 
an airport complex, and a large sparsely settled region. It appears 
that acquisition of Brnk by Applicant would not eliminate meaningful 
listing competition, nor foreclose any significant amount of potential 
competition. Such acquisition may have pro-competitive effects in the 
Fort Lauderdale area by strengthening Bank's ability to compete with 
the larger banking organizations operating therein. 
Based upon the record, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would have no significant adverse effect 
°n competition in any relevant area. The financial condition and 
Management of Applicant and its present subsidiaries appear to be 
generally satisfactory and prospects for the group seem favorable. The 
financial condition and management of Bank are regarded as satisfactory, 
and Bank's future prospects should be enhanced by its affiliation with 
applicant. Applicant proposes to assist Bank in improving its operations 
in lending, investments, and auditing, and also to furnish personnel 
provide Bank with additional capital. Considerations relating 
t o the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 

22(1 
-2-
are consistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 26, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Governors. Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, 
and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson and Daane, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

22CA 
BDARD • F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 10 
8/26/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 26, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your Legislative Referral Memorandum 
of August 13, 1971, requesting the Board's views on a proposed bill 
"To Amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 With Respect to the 
Income Tax Treatment of Certain Distributions and Sales Pursuant 
to the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970." 
The Board understands that the purpose of the bill is to 
provide tax relief treatment in connection with distributions by 
companies that became bank holding companies by virtue of the 1970 
Amendments to the Holding Company Act and are required to dispose 
of bank or nonbank interests; and that the proposed tax relief is 
substantially similar to that which was provided in connection 
with distributions by companies that came within the coverage of 
the Holding Company Act of 1956 and companies that became holding 
companies under the 1966 Amendments to the Act. On that basis, 
the Board favors the proposed legislation. 
Attached is a list of comments and suggestions relating 
to certain of the details of the bill, which may be of interest 
to your staff. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Enclosures 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
STAFF COMMENTS 
In Connection with Draft Bill for Tax Relief 
in Connection with Certain Distributions and 
Sales Pursuant to the Holding Company Act 
Amendments of 1970 
1. In a number of instances, the bill refers to a 
"shareholder" of a holding company. 
Inasmuch as a holding company 
may be a partnership, trust, association, etc., it might be useful 
to define "shareholder" as including a partner, a member of an 
association, etc. 
See, e.g., §§ 1121(a)(1) and (a)(2); 1121(b)(1) and (2); 
1121(c)(1) and (3); 1121(g). 
2. In connection with the defintion of the term "bank 
^ 
Property", you may wish to consider a definition of "bank property 
as "property (1) acquired on or before July 7, 1970, and (2) that 
is all or part of the property by reason of which the holding com-
pany owns or controls (within the meaning of the Holding Company 
Aot as amended) a bank or bank holding company, or did so own or 
control a bank or bank holding company prior to any distributions 
Ul>der §§ 1121-1123 of the Code." 
3. 
In § 1121, query whether the phrase "exchange to 
^ i c h subsection 
applies" should be substituted for the phrase 
'exchange defined in subsection 
". 
See, e.g., §§ 1121(a)(1)(A); 1121(a)(2); 1121(a)(2)(A) 
(i) to (iv); 1121(b)(1)(A); 1121(b)(2) and 1121(b)(2)(A) 
(1) to (iv). 
4. Since a bank holding company may be a partnership, 
^ u s t , association, etc., you may wish to consider the use of the 
w°rd "company" in lieu of "corporation" -- unless tax relief is in-
tended only for bank holding companies that are corporations. 
See, e.g., §§ 1121(b); 1121(b)(1)(i); 1121(b)(2)(i); 
1121(b)(3); 1121(c)(1)(A); 1121(c)(3); 1121(d)(1) and 
(2); 1121(h)(1) and (2); 1122(d)(2); 1123(c). 

• 
220G 
-2-
5. In § 1121(b)(1)(B)(i), you may wish to consider a 
revision of the phrase "property by reason of which such corporation 
[company] owns any interest in a bank or bank holding company" by 
adding the words "or controls 
(within the meaning of the Holding 
Company Act as amended)"after the word "owns"; deleting the words 
'any interest"; and adding, before the semicolon, "or did own or 
control a bank or bank holding company prior to any distributions 
under §§ 1121-1123 of the Code." 
6. In §§ 1121(c)(1)(A)(ii) and 1121(c)(3)(A)(ii), you 
m a y wish to consider the use of the words "new corporation" in lieu 
°f the words "second corporation" -- in view of the fact that a 
holding company might not be in corporate form. 
7. In §§ 1121(c)(1)(A)(i) and 1121(c)(3), in connection 
^ith the phrase "and other property" you may wish to add a definition 
°f "other property", indicating some of the types of property that 
are included within that terminology. For example, do the words 
include property acquired under § 1121(c); property acquired after 
J uly 7, 1970; property that a bank holding company may retain, such 
as 10 per cent of a bank that apparently is not controlled by the 
holding company; property permissible to be held by a holding company 
under the provisions of any subsection of § 4(c) of the Holding Com-
pany Act? May the Board find it "appropriate" for a holding company 
that is divesting its controlled bank, to distribute shares of a 
noncontrolled bank 
(or other property that may lawfully be owned 
by a bank holding company) or is such holding company required 
either to retain such shares or dispose of them without tax benefits? 
8. In §§ 1121(c)(1)(C) and 1121(c)(3)(C), it might be 
nelpful to substitute the words "before such exchange" for the 
^ords "before such distribution". 
9. Section 1121(c)(3) apparently should be relabeled 
§ 1121(c)(2). 
10. In § 1121(c)(3)(C)(i), after the words "bank holding 
c°mpany", you may wish to consider adding the words "or did so con-
trol a bank or bank holding company before any distributions under 
S§ 1121-1123 of the Code." 
„ 
11. In § 1121(g)(1) and (2), query whether the word 
interest" should be used in lieu of "stock", since a holding com-
P any may be other than a corporation and the owners of the holding 
c°mpany may have interests other than stock. 

2207 
-2-
12. In §§ 1122(a) and (b), query whether the phrase "Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 as amended in 1970" should be substi-
tuted for the phrase "Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970". 
13. In § 1122(d), you may wish to add a provision to the 
effect that Board approval is required for replacement property 
sought to be acquired by a holding company whenever such replacement 
Property is "bank property" or other property for which approval by 
the Board is required under the Holding Company Act. 
14. In § 1122(d)(1), should the words "acquiring company" 
he used rather than "acquiring corporation"? 
If so, the word "another" 
in the phrase "another corporation" should be replaced by the word 
a", and the word "other" in the phrase "other corporation" should be 
deleted. 
15. In § 1122(d)(2), you may wish to consider using the 
^ords "a going concern" in lieu of "another corporation". 
16. At the end of § 1123(d)(1), just before the semicolon, 
you may wish to add the following clause: 
"If the holding company 
remains a bank holding company beyond the period allowed for 
divestiture." 
17. Query, whether property, ownership of which is per-
missible for a holding company under § 4(c)(8) of the Holding Company 
Act (or any other subsection under 4(c)), should be regarded as 
Prohibited property", or should be excluded from that category 
along with other property listed in § 1122(d) (now limited to shares 
that fall within subsections 4(c)(6) and 4(c)(7) of the Holding 
Company Act). 
18. The 1966 amendments to the Holding Company Act added 
to that Act a requirement that distributions to shareholders be on 
a Pro rata basis. Apparently a provision for pro rata distributions 
has been omitted from the proposed bill. 
19. The current provisions in the tax law relating to tax 
relief in connection with distributions under the Holding Company 
A c t contain 
provlsons for a finnl tax certification to the 
effect that (1) the holding company has disposed of all the property 
the disposition of which is necessary or appropriate to effectuate 
jj 4 of the Holding Company Act, or (2) that the holding company 
has ceased to be a bank holding company. The draft bill has no 
Provision for such final tax certification. Without some such pro-
vision, it appears that a holding company might apply for, and 
receive, a prior tax certification in connection with the distribu-
tion of some of its nonbank property, receive tax relief, and sub-
sequently sell its bank and cease to be a bank holding company, a 

2208 
-2-
Procedure which would enable a holding company to obtain tax relief 
with respect to certain divestitures of nonbank property and retain 
other nonbank property, a procedure which seems to constitute an 
evasion of the purposes of the proposed legislation. It appears that 
a final tax certification serves a useful purpose whenever distribu-
tions by a holding company take place in stages rather than all at 
one time. 
20. The second "and" in the first line on page 22 was 
apparently intended to be "at". 
21. You may wish to consider whether the draft bill 
would permit a "grandfathered" company - which the Holding Company 
Aot permits to continue to hold bank and nonbank interests - to 
§ive up its grandfathered status, divest its bank (or nonbank 
interests) and be entitled to the tax relief that is available to 
°ther holding companies that became holding companies by reason 
o f the 1970 amendments.* 
22. You may wish to consider whether a company that 
r egards itself as not being covered by the 1970 Amendments to the 
Holding Company Act but is later regarded by the Board to be a 
folding company (on the basis of a Board determination, under 
S 2(a)(2)(C) of the Holding Company Act as amended in 1970, that 
the company exercises a controlling influence over a bank) would 
b e entitled to tax relief under the proposed bill. If the "control" 
acquired after December 31, 1970, it appears that such relief 
not be available. However, if the control existed at Decem-
e r 31, 1970, but the Board determination occurred at a later date, 
t l l ere might be reason to accord tax relief to such holding company. 
°
n the other hand, a company with control of less than 25 per cent 
the shares of a bank, and no controlling influence over said 
ank, might seek to claim holding company status solely for the 
p urpose of distributing certain property interests to shareholders 
and obtaining the tax benefits available for bank holding company 
distributions. • 
