Minutes for 
August 18, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3285 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 18, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, 
and Kelty, and Miss Stockwell of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Katz, Yager, and Gemmill of the 
Division of International Finance 
• w'ou 
•'vtt'i 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty reported on the Government 
securities market, with special reference to the current Treasury 
financing, following which Mr. Fry reviewed bank credit projections. 
Copies of the charts and tables distributed for the purpose of today's 
review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions who had been present except 
Messrs. Brill and Partee then withdrew from the meeting, as did Miss 
®
a
ton, and the following entered: 

3 2 8 R 
8/18/67 
-2-
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Cloth, Porter, and Sanders of the Legal Division 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International Finance 
Mr. Poundstone of the Division of Examinations 
Mr. Wood of the Division of Personnel Administration 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Boston on August 14 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on August 17, 1967, 
of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
Approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved letters. The following letters, copies of which are 
Attached to these minutes under the respective item numbers indicated, 
Were approved unanimously after consideration of background material 
that had been made available to the members of the Board: 
Item No. 
Letter to The First State Bank of Taft, Taft, 
1 
Texas, approving an investment in bank premises. 
Letter to The National Bank of Commerce of 
2 
Seattle, Seattle, Washington, approving the 
establishment of a branch in London, England. 
Letter to Chase International Investment Corpo- 
3 
r
ation, New York, New York, granting consent to 
the purchase of additional shares of Industrial 
ar
*d Mining Development Bank of Iran, Teheran, 
Iran. 

3287 
8/18/67 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
4 
interposing no objection to its proceeding with 
Plans for the new Cincinnati Branch building on 
the basis of a revised design discussed by repre-
sentatives of the Bank with the Board's Committee 
°n Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans 
a
nd approved by the directors of the Bank and the 
Cincinnati Branch. 
In connection with Item No. 2, it was understood that the per-
tinent memorandum from the Division of Examinations would be footnoted 
for the record to indicate that as of the end of July 1967 the National 
Bank of Commerce of Seattle had a leeway under the voluntary foreign 
credit restraint program. 
Also in connection with Item No. 2, Governor Brimmer commented 
that he was becoming more and more concerned about the rush of U.S. 
banks to establish overseas branches. He felt that the application of 
National Bank of Commerce was well documented and warranted approval. 
However, he urged that the staff review applications for foreign branches 
carefully and said he would like to see the Board institute a somewhat 
restrictive policy with regard to such applications. 
Open Market Committee policy record entry. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from Mr. Sherman dated August 17, 1967, submitting 
a
 revised draft of policy record entry for the meeting of the Federal 
°Pen Market Committee on May 23, 1967. It was proposed to release the 
Material to the press on Monday afternoon, August 21, with subsequent 

3288 
8/18/67 
-4-
Publication in the Federal Reserve Bulletin. The entry had been 
approved by the Board at its meeting on July 11, 1967, and no comments 
were received from Reserve Bank Presidents concerning the approved text 
However, Governor Daane had suggested a revision of one sentence, and 
that change had been incorporated in the text of the entry. 
The release of the entry to the press on Monday afternoon, 
August 21, was authorized. 
Proposed acquisition of mortgage company (Item No. 5). There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
August 17, 1967, dealing with the question whether it was permissible 
a national bank in a holding company system to purchase and retain 
the stock of a company engaged in originating mortgage loans for resale 
arranging interim financing and warehousing of mortgage loans pending 
sale to long-term investors, and servicing mortgage loans for a fee. 
National Bank of Washington, Tacoma, Washington, a subsidiary of West-
e r
n Bancorporation, wished to purchase the assets of such a company, 
the main office of which was located in Seattle, and form a new corpo-
ration to which the company's assets would be transferred. 
For reasons stated, the Legal Division recommended that counsel 
f
°r the bank be informed that sections 4(c)(5) and 4(c)(1)(C) of the 
fi
ank Holding Company Act would not exempt the proposed indirect acqui-
sition of shares by Western Bancorporation from the prohibition of 
S e
ction 4(a), but that the holding company was at liberty to apply for 

«. ^ 2 S H 
8/18/67 
-5-
a
 determinat ion under section 4(c)(8) of the Holding Company Act. A 
draft of letter was attached to the Legal Division's memorandum. 
As to section 4(c)(5), which permits bank holding companies to 
acquire directly or indirectly "shares which are of the kinds and amounts 
e
ligible for investment by national banking associations under the pro-
visions of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes," the Legal Division 
brought out that the Comptroller of the Currency had issued interpreta-
tions suggesting that the stock of a mortgage company may be purchased 
by a national bank. National Bank of Washington had cited opinions in 
the Comptroller's Manual in support of the present proposal. However, 
in July 1966 the Board had held in another holding company case that 
the shares of a corporation that would originate and purchase mortgage 
loans, hold and assemble the acquired mortgages for resale to large 
investors, and service the loans after such sale were not eligible for 
investment by national banks under the provisions of section 5136. The 
Legal Division recommended adhering to that decision. 
As to section 4(c)(1)(C), the Legal Division believed that the 
combination of functions performed by the mortgage company whose shares 
w
ere proposed to be purchased by National Bank of Washington did not 
within the category of "furnishing services to or performing ser-
vices for such bank holding company or its banking subsidiaries" within 
^ e meaning of the statute. It noted, however, that in somewhat dif-
ferent circumstances the Board in 1965 had approved the purchase of 

. ' i 2 9 n 
« i ; 
8/18/67 
-6-
shares of a mortgage loan corporation by a bank holding company in 
» 
; 
Utah. 
The Legal Division also noted that the proposed acquisition 
°f the mortgage company might involve the question of operation of 
branches. However, it was deemed inadvisable to raise that point at 
this juncture. If it arose in connection with a section 4(c)(8) pro-
ceeding, the matter could be studied further in that context. 
In response to questions raised at this meeting, Messrs. 
Hackley and Hexter reviewed the elements of a determination such as 
the Board would be required to make, after a hearing, in the event 
Western Bancorporation chose to request a section 4(c)(8) determina-
tion. in response to further questions, they pointed out that while 
the Board had recently held that acquisition of the assets of mort-
gage companies by two California State member banks was permissible, 
those cases were distinguishable from the one now before the Board 
because here the question of operation of a subsidiary corporation 
W£
*s involved. 
There followed discussion of other somewhat similar cases on 
w
hich the Board had ruled in the past, and of steps that Western Bancor-
Poration and National Bank of Washington might take if the Board held 
that the exceptions contained in sections 4(c)(5) and 4(c)(1)(C) were 
n
°t applicable. It was noted that the possibilities included, in 

8/18/67 
-7-
addition to a request for a section 4(c)(8) determination, a restruc-
turing of the operating methods of the mortgage company or acquisition 
of the assets, rather than the stock, of the mortgage company. 
The differing interpretations of section 5136 by the Board 
and the Comptroller in regard to operations subsidiaries were also 
discussed, particularly insofar as the relationship to a ruling under 
section 4(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act was involved. In that 
regard, Governor Brimmer recalled that from time to time the Board had 
discussed in piecemeal fashion the broad policy questions relating to 
operations subsidiaries. On the last occasion it had been suggested 
that the questions be subdivided to facilitate further consideration 
°f possible legislation. However, the Board had not yet returned to 
the problem. 
Mr. Hackley noted, in this connection, that the subject had 
been discussed at a meeting of the Coordinating Committee on Bank 
Regulat 
ion. The Comptroller felt that legislation was not necessary, 
for in the opinion of his Office it was permissible for a national 
bank to organize and maintain operations subsidiaries. 
After further d 
iscussion, the recommendation of the Legal 
Division on the matter of the National Bank of Washington was accepted, 
and unanimous approval was given to the proposed letter to counsel for 
the bank. A copy of the letter, as sent, is attached as Item No. 5. 

3 ^f^Sy 
8/18/67 
-8-
Equal employment opportunity (Item No. 6). With a memorandum 
of August 15, 1967, from the Legal Division, the Personnel Division, 
and the Office of the Secretary, there had been distributed a draft of 
Board regulations relating to equal employment opportunity. The draft, 
which represented a revision of the present regulations, included for 
the first time a reference to nondiscrimination on the basis of sex, 
that reference having been added in view of the provisions of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964. 
Accompanying the submission was a memorandum from the Legal 
Division dated August 3, 1967, taking the position that the Board was 
not subject to the requirements of Executive Order No. 11246, dated 
September 28, 1965, which dealt with the matter of equal employment 
opportunity. Nevertheless, in keeping with the Board's policy over a 
Period of years the revised regulations had been prepared on the assump-
tion that the Board would want to continue in some form a statement of 
its policy of nondiscrimination, and to provide procedures designed to 
further that policy. It was planned to transmit a copy of the revised 
r e
gulations to each employee with a memorandum from the Board's Equal 
Employment Opportunity Officer (Mr. Sherman). 
There had likewise been distributed a draft of report to the 
United States Civil Service Commission regarding developments in the 
Board's equal employment opportunity program. It was believed that the 
Board would want to furnish the Commission information relating to such 

3293 
8/18/67 
-9-
developments even though the report might not actually be required in 
view of the Legal Division's interpretation with respect to Executive 
Order No. 11246. 
Governor Brimmer said that he had talked about this subject 
from time to time with the Board's Equal Employment Opportunity Officer 
He had posed a number of questions about the Board's status under the 
Executive Order and, further, the posture of the System in relation to 
the voluntary efforts now getting under way within the banking commu-
nity, as well as other parts of industry, to promote employment oppor-
tunities. In his opinion the memorandum from the Legal Division was 
correct. Nevertheless, even though the Board might not be subject to 
the requirements of Executive Order No. 11246, it should cooperate 
voluntarily. 
Governor Brimmer went on to say that he was unhappy with the 
Proposed report to the Civil Service Commission. He felt that the revi 
s
ion of the Board's regulations was quite appropriate, subject to one 
two possible minor amendments that he would take up with Mr. Sherman 
The report, however, while it described the Board's actual program, 
W a
s weak principally because the program itself should be strengthened. 
The Board should adopt the positive approach embodied in the program 
known as Plans for Progress, in which the commercial banks were now 
helng urged to enlist. In May, at a meeting held in the State Depart-
ment's building, bankers were among those asked by high Government 

3294 
8/18/67 
-10-
officials to join in that effort. Thus, Plans for Progress had a quasi-
Governmental status. 
Governor Brimmer added that he had found interesting a memoran-
dum prepared by the Personnel Division under date of May 11, 1967, sum-
marizing the status of the Federal Reserve Banks in terms of employment 
°f members of minority groups. He had expected to see that memorandum 
included with the other documentation distributed for today's meeting. 
The data in the May 11 memorandum regarding the Reserve Banks were not 
encouraging to him. They indicated that in some cases Reserve Banks 
were doing well and in other cases poorly. 
In summary, Governor Brimmer felt that stronger and more active 
Programs than those now in effect were called for. 
Mr. Johnson indicated that the May 11 report referred to by 
Governor Brimmer was prepared for the use of the Personnel Division 
connection with its personnel surveys at the Reserve Banks. If a 
Reserve Bank did not seem to be making good progress, that circumstance 
W a
s called to its attention. The Division would be glad to distribute 
copie 
s of the document to the other Board members. 
Governor Daane inquired of Governor Brimmer what the latter 
r e
garded as the principal weaknesses reflected in the proposed report 
t o
 the Civil Service Commission. 
v * 
In reply, Governor Brimmer identified such things as a state-
^ n t in the report that within the Board's staff there had been, as of 

8/18/67 
-11-
June 30, 1967, a 60 per cent increase in the number of Negro employees 
since June 30, 1966. The percentage was used without citing a base. 
Also, while there had been some increase in Negro employment in the 
higher grades, there had not been too much progress in that respect. 
Governor Robertson suggested that Governor Brimmer take the 
leadership with the staff in accumulating all of the information needed 
by 
the Board to consider the subject further and determine the kind of 
report that should be submitted to the Civil Service Commission. Fur-
ther, if there were steps that should be taken in terms of the programs 
the Board or the Reserve Banks, appropriate recommendations should 
he brought back to the Board. 
Mr. Sherman commented that the Reserve Banks were clearly not 
subj 
ect to the program under which the reports to the Civil Service 
Commission were rendered. Therefore, it had not been felt that the 
reports should include the Reserve Banks as such, even though the Banks 
had pursued for years a policy of nondiscrimination. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that the Reserve Banks were not subject 
t o
 the particular reporting program. However, this presented a policy 
question that he wanted to take up with the Board. Under Part II of 
Executive Order No. 11246 all banks holding deposits of Federal funds 
W e
r e now subject, as contractors, to the Treasury's regulations, adopted 
e
arlier this year, prohibiting discrimination in hiring, promoting, 
Gaining, and other personnel activities. Such banks were required, 

8/18/67 
-12-
Among other things, to establish positive equal employment policies 
And programs. Since the Federal Reserve Banks were obviously deposi-
taries of Government funds, he had raised with Assistant Secretary of 
the Treasury Wallace the question whether the Reserve Banks were sub-
ject to the requirements of the Treasury regulations, but he had not 
Pursued the matter. 
Beyond that, Governor Brimmer said, Plans for Progress--with 
the encouragement of the American Bankers Association—was working 
w
ith the Treasury in mounting a voluntary campaign around the country 
t o
 involve banks in promoting the equal employment opportunity program. 
Many banks had already joined the campaign. In that environment it 
seemed highly desirable for the Reserve Banks to play an equally posi-
tive role. 
Governor Daane agreed that irrespective of the technicalities 
o f
 the law the Board should assure itself that everything possible was 
b e
ing done, not only at the Board but at the Federal Reserve Banks, to 
comply with the spirit of the law. 
N ' 
. 
. 
. 
Governor Maisel noted that the most recent examination report 
o f
 the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston referred to a notice sent by that 
B a
n k to employees stating that they were not subject to unionization. 
H e 
f
elt that the Board would be subject to criticism if it did not make 
S U r e
, as a matter of policy, that the Reserve Banks were acting in 

3297 
8/18/67 
-13-
conformity with policies of the Federal Government, and he had asked 
the staff to study the matter further. 
Mr. Sherman recalled that over the past 20 years or more the 
Board had taken an active interest in the question of nondiscrimination 
a
t the Reserve Banks. The Board's views had been conveyed to the 
Reserve Banks both informally and in writing. Without doubt, the 
Reserve Banks had been following an equal employment opportunity pro-
gram as a matter of policy. While there may have been a few question-
a t )
le incidents, the policy had been clear. Likewise, there had been a 
°lear understanding that periodic reports to the Civil Service Commis-
sion such as the one before the Board this morning were to cover the 
Board and not the Reserve Banks. 
Governor Robertson commented that the Board should nevertheless 
review the over-all situation from time to time. Reports should be sub-
mitted on the basis that seemed appropriate, but that did not preclude 
the making of a general review of the kind suggested this morning. When 
of the pertinent information had been put together, a report should 
b e
 brought back to the Board. 
Question was raised whether the Board was prepared to approve 
fc
he proposed revision of its regulations relating to equal employment 
°PPortunity, and it was agreed unanimously that the revised regulations 
» • 
s
hould be issued, subject to possible minor changes such as referred to 
e a
rlier by Governor Brimmer. It was understood that the report to the 

3298 
8/18/67 
-14-
Civil Service Commission would be held up and brought back for the 
Board's further consideration. 
A copy of the Board's regulations, as subsequently issued pur-
suant to the foregoing action, is attached as Item No. 6. 
Revenue bond underwriting. Pursuant to the understanding at 
the meeting on August 16, 1967, there had been distributed to the mem-
bers of the Board a draft statement proposed by Governor Robertson 
regarding S. 1306, the bill that, broadly speaking, would repeal the 
Provisions of Federal law that prohibit commercial banks from underwrit-
ing or dealing in revenue bonds. (The statement on the subject was to 
b e
 presented by Governor Mitchell, on behalf of the Board, before the 
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions of the Senate Banking and Cur-
rency Committee on August 28, 1967.) 
Members of the Board noted that they had submitted some edito-
rial suggestions with respect to the draft statement, and Governor 
Mitchell then inquired of Governor Daane whether the latter was amena-
ble to saying that the statement reflected the unanimous view of the 
Board members who had considered it. 
Governor Daane replied that he was not amenable to saying that 
t t l e
 statement was unanimous. He had now read carefully the transcripts 
the presentations to the Board by representatives of the commercial 
b a
nks and investment bankers. He had also talked with people whose 
j
u d
gment he respected, including the Manager of the System Open Market 

8/18/67 
-15-
Account. For reasons that he would explain, he did not concur in the 
conclusions reached in the proposed statement. 
Governor Daane said he started with a philosophical bias that 
commercial banking and investment banking should be kept separate. 
There should be a specialization of functions. He did not like to see 
a
 continuing erosion of the barriers, and the proposed legislation con-
stituted a step in that direction. He was impressed by the argument 
that the Congress had drawn a line, and that the line could just as 
W e
l l have been drawn to permit underwriting of revenue bonds by com-
mercial banks. He was not convinced by the testimony of the commercial 
hankers that their only interest in the matter was a high sense of public 
responsibili ty. In any event, extension of the revenue bond underwrit-
ing privilege to commercial banks would represent a further deteriora-
tion of the concept of specialization, a concept in which he believed. 
The proposed statement, Governor Daane said, implied that if 
the pending legislation were passed there would simply be a splitting 
U
P of the revenue bond underwriting business between the investment 
hankers and the commercial banks. In his judgment, the commercial 
hanks would move in and dominate the area, and he was not convinced 
t
hat that would be in the public interest. For example, he suspected 
that last year the commercial banks, by and large, dropped further away 
the area of municipal financing than the investment bankers under 
conditions of monetary stringency. 

8/18/67 
-16-
In substance, Governor Daane continued, he felt strongly that 
it would be desirable to hold the line exactly where it was in order 
to keep the commercial banking and investment banking functions sepa-
rated as much as at present. He thought Mr. Weeden (of the investment 
banker group) had made the case effectively that adding to the number 
°f traders would not really broaden the market in a meaningful way. 
Further, he was not persuaded by the argument that significant savings 
to State and local governments would occur. Despite the caveats that 
might be included, he felt that the Banking and Currency Committee and 
the public generally were going to say that in the opinion of the Fed-
e r
a l Reserve there would be a saving of many millions of dollars. There 
Was no real basis for such a statement, and he did not believe it. 
Governor Mitchell said he thought the proposed statement could 
k
e
 strengthened a little and that he had in mind a few points. He 
assumed five members of the Board felt that it was basically a correct 
statement. 
Governor Brimmer said it was his recollection that Chairman 
Martin's position, as expressed during an executive session of the 
Board, could be classified as falling into a middle ground, that is, 
a
 Position midway between support and opposition. He did not feel 
that it was appropriate to classify Chairman Martin's position as being 
the same category as that of Governor Daane. 

3301 
8/18/67 
-17-
Governor Robertson suggested, after some further discussion, 
that Governor Mitchell might say, if questioned, that the statement 
reflected the views of five members of the Board who had seen it and 
that the other members should speak for themselves. If necessary, it 
might also be said, he thought, that Chairman Martin had indicated at 
a meeting of the Board that he was strongly in favor of the separation 
°f commercial and investment banking; however, since Congress had 
exempted general obligation bonds from the prohibition against commer-
cial bank underwriting, he was not sure that the line should be drawn 
between general obligations and revenue bonds. Beyond that, it would 
not seem proper to commit the Chairman. 
It was understood that the proposed statement on S. 1306 would 
b e
 edited in the light of such further comments as might be received 
from members of the Board and that the statement would be presented in 
a
 final form satisfactory to Governor Mitchell. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Brill, 
Molony, Cardon, Hackley, and Partee then withdrew from the meeting and 
Axilrod returned to the room. 
Margin requirements. There had been distributed a memorandum 
u 
from the Division of Research and Statistics dated August 17, 1967, 
w
ith regard to recent stock market credit developments. A copy of the 
Memorandum has been placed in the Board's files. 
« 
;
>>'t
v
v .... 
„„ , 
' * ' • • . " "•• . 
! 
' ' 1 I. ' - ' • ' 

3302 
8/18/67 
-18-
Th e data contained in the memorandum were reviewed by Mr. 
Partee, after which other members of the staff also commented. 
The members of the Board then discussed the situation generally, 
a
nd it was understood that another review would be made after the first 
of September. 
It was also understood, pursuant to a suggestion by Gov-
ernor Maisel, that the staff would continue to work on a draft of regu-
lat ion that would subject extensions of credit by presently unregulated 
lenders to the margin requirements, along with amendments to the margin 
regulations designed to cover loopholes with respect to convertible 
bonds and other matters. The thought was that the Board could then 
consider whether it would be desirable to publish such proposals in 
the Federal Register for comment. 
All staff members except Mr. Sherman then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
Outside space. As recommended in a memorandum from the Divi-
sion of Administrative Services dated August 17, 1967, the Board 
authorized the execution of a lease with Watergate Improvements, Inc., 
for 35,070 square feet of office space in the new Watergate Office 
Building at 2600 Virginia Avenue, N. W., at $216,705 per annum, plus 
garage spaces at $30 per month, up to 100 parking spaces at $10 to 
Per month beginning with occupancy of the office space, and up to 
^00 parking lot spaces at the same rate during the period between the 
beginning of construction of the Board's annex building and the com-
pletion of such building. 

8/18/67 
-19-
O R 
The Board approved proceeding with plans to move into the 
Watergate space all Board employees located at the FDIC Building and 
at the Architect Building in Rosslyn. The Board also approved over-
expenditures in the affected budget accounts by the necessary amounts. 
It was understood that if plans did not materialize for the 
assumption by Watergate Improvements, Inc., of the Board's lease cover-
ing space at the Architect Building, an attempt would be made to nego-
tiate with Architect Building Associates to terminate the lease, which 
wight involve a termination penalty. 
Training program. In further implementation of its Employee 
Training and Development Program, adopted in 1958, the Board authorized 
the Division of Personnel Administration to include provision for the 
Payment of tuition, required related fees, and necessary text book costs 
for approved academic courses in non-Government training facilities, 
under the following conditions, when it is not practicable to obtain 
s
uch training through Government facilities: 
1. Any such courses shall be job related. This may be 
interpreted to include courses intended to round out or com-
plete prior course work where it can be shown that this will 
increase the employee's competence. 
2. This program is not designed to permit the selection 
and assignment of any employee for training under a non-Gov-
ernment facility either (1) for the purpose of the employee 
obtaining an academic degree to qualify for appointment to a 
particular position for which such academic degree is a basic 
requirement, or (2) solely for the purpose of providing an 
opportunity to such employee to obtain an academic degree, 
but rather is designed to further the education and develop-
ment of employees of the Board in order that they may be able 
to better perform the Board's work. 

3304 
8/18/67 
-20-
3. The Division Director or his designee shall submit 
a full justification of each proposed academic course to 
enable the employee to more adequately perform his current 
or prospective assignment. 
4. At the outset, at least, all approvals under this 
training program shall be made by the Board member in charge 
of internal affairs and thereafter by such person as may be 
designated by him. The Division of Personnel Administration 
shall keep a record of all courses approved and shall submit 
to the Board member in charge of internal affairs, as well as 
all other members of the Board, periodic reports which shall 
include his appraisal of the program. 
5. Such courses shall not be scheduled during regular 
working hours unless recommended by the Division Director and 
approved by the Board member or his designee. 
6. In order to encourage successful completion of these 
courses, an employee will reimburse the Board for all costs 
paid by the Board if the course is not completed with a pass-
ing grade or the employee leaves the Board before completion 
of the course. Exceptions to this provision can be made upon 
recommendation of the employee's Division, with the concur-
rence of the Division of Personnel Administration when there 
are extenuating circumstances deemed sufficient to warrant 
exception. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
intments 
Judith Berry as Research Assistant, Division of Research and Sta-
tistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $7,090, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Helen E. Prokop as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 

*\tS 
3 3 0 5 
fr 
8/18/67 
-21-
Appointments (continued) 
f 
Phebe B. Hines as Operations Research Analyst, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $15,106, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty, it being understood that the Board 
would pay the cost of moving Mrs. Hines
1
 household effects from Organ, 
New Mexico, to Washington, D. C., along with her transportation expenses 
Susan H. Reid as Senior Programmer, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $11,685, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Transfer 
Robert P. Forrestal, from the position of Senior Attorney in the 
Legal Division to the position of Special Assistant in the Office of 
the Secretary, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of 
$15,106, effective August 14, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Richard L. Breen, Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business September 19, 1967. 
JUS 
Secretary 7 A 

3306 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D, C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/18/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 18, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The First State Bank of Taft, 
Taft, Texas. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System approves an investment in bank 
premises by The First State Bank of Taft, Taft, Texas, 
of $138,861 for the construction of new banking quarters 
t,, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D, C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
8/18/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 18, 1967. 
^ e National Bank of Commerce of Seattle, 
Second Avenue at Spring Street, 
Seattle 24, Washington. 
Gentl emen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to The National Bank of Commerce of Seattle, 
Seattle, Washington, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of 
^he Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in the city of 
London, England, and to operate and maintain such branch subject 
t o
 the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M . 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened 
business on or before September 1, 1968, all rights granted 
ereby shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority 
ereby granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
eserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for busi-
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
n
e Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
O c
ation of the branch in London. 
. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
n
ds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
Pital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
s
ets for purposes of the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
8/18/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 18, 1967. 
Chase International Investment Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 20, 1967, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and 
hold either directly and/or through your wholly-owned subsidiary, 
Arcturus Investment and Development, Limited, Montreal, Canada, 
additional shares of Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran, 
Teheran, Iran, at a cost of approximately US$232,500, provided such 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), and Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corpora-
tion. will not cause the total of such loans and investments to ex-
ceed the guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit 
r
estraint effort now in effect and that due consideration is being 
Siven to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

-'HfVT' 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20951 
Item No. 4 
8/18/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 18, 1967 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
This refers to your letter of August 10, 1967, 
advising that the Cincinnati Branch and the Cleveland 
Reserve Bank Directors have approved a revised design of 
the Cincinnati Branch building, which was discussed on 
July 21, 1967, by representatives of your Bank and the 
Board's building committee. 
The B>ard will interpose no objection to your 
Bank's proceecii.it; with the plans for the Cincinnati 
Branch building on the basis of the revised design 
discussed at the July 21 meeting and approved by the 
Directors of the Reserve Bank and Branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
\ 'J.-. 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
i i 

* *••' \ • 0 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No> 5 
OF the 
8/18/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E 3 P D N O E N C E 
T O T H E B D A R D 
August 18, 1967 
to. James E . O'Hern, 
Blair, Thomas, O'Hern 6c Daheim, 
5
02 Rust Building, 
Tacoma, Washington. 98402 
* ' 
Dear Mr. O'Hern: 
This is in response to your letter of May 5, 1967, requesting 
the opinion of the Board as to whether, in view of the provisions of 
fc
he Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq.), National 
Bank of Washington, Tacoma, a subsidiary of Western Bancorporation, a 
hank holding company, may acquire all of the stock oi a mortgage company. 
Section 4(c)(5) of said Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) provides that the 
S
e
neral prohibition against direct or indirect acquisition by a holding 
company of "voting shares of any company which is not a bank" (sec-
tion 4(a)(1)) shall not apply to "shares which are of the kinds and 
a
mounts eligible for investment by national banking associations under 
t
he provisions of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes" (12 U.S.C. 24). 
Section 5136 contains the following sentence (the so-called 
stock-purchase prohibition"): 
"Except as hereinafter provided or otherwise permitted 
by law, nothing herein contained shall authorize the 
purchase by [a national bank] for its own account of 
any shares of stock of any corporation." 
The twentieth paragraph of section 9 of the Federal Reserve 
A
ct (12 U.S.C. 335) subjects member State banks "to the same limitations 
conditions with respect to the purchasing, selling, underwriting, 
holding of investment securities and stock as are applicable in the 
C a
se of national banks under paragraph 'Seventh' of section 5136". In 
c
°nnection with its supervision of member State banks, the Board has 
e
°nsidered the last-quoted provision on a number of occasions, and such 
Consideration necessarily has involved the interpretation of the stock-
P
u
rchase prohibition of R.S. 5136. 

Mr. James E. O'Hern 
-2-
O O A 
The Board has concluded that the stock-purchase prohibition 
forbids the purchase by a national bank or member State bank "for its 
°wn account of any shares of stock of any corporation" except to the 
e
xtent permitted by specific provisions of Federal law or as comprised 
Within the concept of "such incidental powers as shall be necessary to 
c
arry on the business of banking", referred to in the first sentence 
°f paragraph "Seventh" of R.S. 5136. (1966 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
l l
5l; 12 GFR 208.119.) 
Specific provisions of the Federal banking statutes permit 
h e
 purchase of stock of a number of kinds of corporations, including 
stock of Federal Reserve Banks, bank premises subsidiaries, safe 
de
posit companies, "Edge" and "Agreement" corporations, small business 
J-nvestment companies, bank service corporations, and certain foreign 
a
nks. in addition, it has been held that, in the process of col-
lating defaulted loans that were contracted in good faith, the 
lr
*cidental powers of a national bank include the power to purchase 
corporate stock where that action constitutes a reasonable and appro-
priate step toward the collection of the indebtedness. 
In the program described in your inquiry, the principal 
u
nction of the mortgage company would be 
"the originating of mortgage loans for resale, the 
arranging of interim financing and warehousing of 
the mortgage loans pending sale to long-term investors, 
and the servicing of mortgage loans for a fee." 
k
 e
 "originating of mortgage loans" includes the making of such loans 
^ the mortgage company. 
The Federal statutes contain no express permission for 
t,
t c
hase of stock of corporations of this kind by national banks, and 
e
 Board of Governors has concluded that the power to purchase the 
°ck of such corporations may not properly be regarded as comprised 
k
 c
hin "such incidental powers as shall be necessary to carry on the 
Us
iness of banking". 
^ 
The suggestion has been advanced that, as a matter of policy, 
^
 
e r
 banks should be permitted to establish subsidiaries to engage 
p
 a c
tivities that such banks may carry on directly, subject to appro-
l a
te conditions and limitations. Accordingly, the Board is presently 
Q
 ns
idering the advisability of recommending to Congress the enactment 
slation to authorize member banks to establish such "operations 
p ^
s
i d i a r i e s " and to purchase their stock, under regulations to be 
S c
ribed by the Federal supervisory authorities. 

Mr. James E. O'Hern 
-3-
In view of the Board's conclusion that national banks and 
member State banks may not lawfully purchase stock of mortgage cor-
porations, it follows that a bank holding company is not permitted 
do so by the provisions of section 4(c)(5) of the Holding Company 
c
t, relating to "shares which are of the kinds and amounts eligible 
l o
r investment by national banking associations". 
As you had advised your client that other exceptions in the 
Holding Company Act might also be applicable, the Board has studied 
h e
 proposal in light of the other provisions of section 4(c) that 
W e
re cited in your letter. 
The Board has concluded that section 4(c)(1)(C), which 
Permits a holding company to acquire shares in a company engaged or 
0
 be engaged solely in "furnishing services to or performing services 
r
 [the] bank holding company or its banking subsidiaries", does not 
PPly to this situation. The mortgage company would have as its 
Principal function "the originating of mortgage loans for resale, the 
ranging of interim financing and warehousing of the mortgage loans 
^nding sale to long-term investors, and the servicing of mortgage 
a
ns for a fee." In the opinion of the Board, such activities do 
c
0 t
 constitute the kind of "servicing" operations for the holding 
0lT1
pany or its banks that are contemplated by section 4(c)(1)(C). 
s 
Whether the activities of the mortgage company would be 
c
U c h a s
 to bring its shares within the purview of section 4(c)(8) 
d
 
d
 be determined, of course, only on the basis of a hearing con-
t^
c
ted pursuant to that provision. Nevertheless, the Board wishes 
10 ^
t r e s s
 that the section 4(c)(8) exemption applies only if the fol-
kj^ng conditions are met: 
(1) all of the company's activities must 
mu °
f 3 f i n a n c i a l
> fiduciary, or insurance nature; (2) said activities 
°£k
 b e d e t e r m i n e d
 by the Board to be so closely related to the business 
c
id
 a n
^
n g 
o r m a n a
g i n g
 o r
 controlling banks (a) as to be a proper in-
e
nt thereto and (b) as to make it unnecessary for the prohibitions 
section 4 of the Act to apply in order to carry out the purposes of 
Of 
th, 
t, Act. With reference to the second requirement, it should be noted 
^ 
the activities of the proposed subsidiary must be "so closely 
^
 
a
ted to the business of banking or of managing or controlling banks 
^>-£onducted by such bank holding company or its banking subsidiaries, 
a proper incident thereto . . .". (Section 222.5(b) of 
is t
 
i o n Y
>
 1 2 C F R 
2 2
2.5(b); emphasis added.) The relevant test 
ba ,
 e
 extent to which particular transactions of the proposed non-
h0n 
subsidiary are related to particular transactions of the 
t0 ^J
118 c
°mpany or its subsidiary banks. Your attention is drawn 
e
 statement in the Matter of Northwest Bancorporation, 
the
 
F e d e r a
l Reserve Bulletin 963, where the Board determined that 
a
ctiviti es of Northwestern Mortgage Company, while functions 

Mr. James E. O'Hern 
-4-
3313 
that are frequently performed by banks, were not related to the 
business of subsidiary banks of that holding company in such a manner 
a s
 to be a proper incident thereto or to be consistent with the pur-
Poses of the Act. 
In summary, the Board has concluded that neither section 
4
(
c
)(l)(C) nor section 4(c)(5) of the Holding Company Act exempts 
the proposed acquisition of shares from the prohibition of section 
^(a). A determination as to the applicability of section 4(c)(8) 
could be made only on the basis of the record made at a hearing 
conducted pursuant to that provision of the Act. 
As you know, the problems presented by your client's 
Proposal, and the foregoing comments thereon, arise from the fact 
hat the stock of a mortgage company is to be acquired. The pro-
ibitions of section 4(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act would not 
e
 applicable if National Bank of Washington were taking over assets 
business operations rather than ownership of a separate 
corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY 
REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No 
OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/18/67 
Section 1. Statement of Policy. It is the policy of the Board 
t o
 provide equal opportunity for all qualified persons; to prohibit dis-
semination in employment because of race, creed, color, national origin, 
°
r
 sex; and to promote the full realization of equal employment opportu-
n u
y through a positive, continuing program. 
Section 2. Equal Employment Opportunity Officer. The Board 
s
hall designate an Equal Employment Opportunity Officer and one or more 
D e p u t
y Equal Employment Opportunity Officers outside the Division of 
P e r
sonnel Administration.* The Equal Employment Opportunity Officer 
s
hall: 
(A) Advise the Board with respect to the preparation of 
plans, procedures, regulations, reports, and other 
matters pertaining to the policy and programs with 
respect to providing equal opportunity in employment 
without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, 
or sex. 
(B) Evaluate from time to time the Board's program for 
equal employment opportunity and report thereon to 
the Board, making recommendations as to any improve-
ments or corrections needed, including remedial or 
V-^jjagrt of the regulation?) In accordance with this requirement, the 
g
 C r e t
a r y of the Board of Governors ha9 been designated as Equal 
^Ployment Opportunity Officer and an Assistant Secretary (Miss 
Jrmtchael) has been designated as Deputy Equal Employment Opportunity 
l f
icer. 

- 2 - 
S 
*• 
IM.) * < 
disciplinary action with respect to managerial or 
supervisory employees who have failed in their 
responsibilities. 
(C) Provide for receipt and investigation of complaints 
of alleged discrimination within the Board's organiza-
tion, including complaints of general discrimination, 
and make recommendations for such corrective measures 
as he may deem necessary. 
Section 3. Initiation of Complaint of Discrimination. 
(A) Any aggrieved employee or qualified applicant for 
employment (or authorized representative of either), 
who believes that he has been discriminated against 
because of race, creed, color, national origin, or 
sex, may file a written signed complaint. A complaint 
may also be filed by an organization for an aggrieved 
employee or applicant with his consent. The complaint 
must be filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Officer within 30 calendar days of the date of the 
action giving rise to the complaint, or, if a person-
nel action, within 30 calendar days of its effective 
date, unless such time is extended by the Board for 
good cause shown by the complainant. A complaint 
concerned with a continuing discriminatory practice 
having a material bearing on employment may be filed 
at any time. 

The complainant shall be free from restraint, 
interference, coercion, discrimination, or reprisal 
and shall have the right to be accompanied, repre-
sented, and advised by a representative of his own 
choosing. A complainant who is an employee shall 
have a reasonable amount of official time to present 
his complaint if he is otherwise in an active duty 
status. If the complainant should designate another 
Board employee as his representative, the representa-
/ 
tive shall be free from restraint, interference, 
coercion, discrimination, or reprisal, and shall have 
a reasonable amount of official time to present the 
complaint. 
Section 4. Investigation of the Complaint. 
An investigation of the complaint presented shall be 
undertaken promptly either by the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Officer or his designated representative. 
The investigation shall include a thorough review of 
the circumstances under which the alleged discrimination 
occurred, the treatment of members of the complainant's 
group identified by his complaint as compared with the 
treatment of other employees in the organizational 
segment in which the alleged discrimination occurred, 
and any policies and practices related to the work 
situation that may constitute, or appear to constitute, 

-4- 
33.17 
discrimination even though they have not been expressly 
cited by the complainant. 
(B) The complainant shall be furnished a written summary 
that contains all the information in the investigation 
material to the resolution of the complaint. On request 
of the complainant, the full investigative file shall be 
made available for review. 
(C) After completion of the investigation and the appraisal, 
and after the complainant has reviewed the investigative 
file or written summary of the investigation, an attempt 
shall be made by the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Officer or his designated representative to settle the 
complaint by informal negotiation with the complainant 
and appropriate officials. The summary report of 
investigation and appraisal will form the basis for the 
informal negotiations. 
Section 5. Hearing on the Complaint. 
(A) If the complaint is not settled informally, the com-
plainant shall have an opportunity for a hearing in 
connection with the complaint at a convenient time and 
place. 
<B) At the discretion of the Board, the hearing may be held 
by either (1) a hearing committee of three members, one 
of whom shall be chosen by the Board, one by the com-
plainant, and the third who shall be chairman, by joint 

3318 
-5-
selection of the first two or (2) a trained hearing 
officer selected by the Board. The hearing committee 
or the hearing officer shall be fair, impartial, and 
objective. Neither the hearing officer nor a member 
of the hearing committee shall be a person who 
investigated the complaint or a person who took or 
reviewed an action or decision giving rise to the 
complaint. 
(C) The hearing officer or committee shall conduct the 
hearing so as to bring out pertinent facts, including 
the production of pertinent documents. Rules of 
evidence shall not be applied strictly, but the hear-
ing officer or committee shall exclude irrelevant or 
unduly repetitious evidence. Information having a 
bearing on the complaint or an employment policy or 
practices relevant to the complaint shall be received 
in evidence. The complainant, his representative, and 
the representatives of the Board at the hearing shall 
be given the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses 
who appear and testify. Testimony shall be under oath 
or affirmation. 
(D) The Board shall make its employees available as 
witnesses at a hearing on a complaint, upon a showing 
satisfactory to the hearing officer or committee of 
reasonable necessity therefor, when the complainant 

makes such a request and it is administratively 
practicable to comply with the request. Reasons for 
denial of a request for the appearance of employees 
as witnesses shall be documented in the record of the 
complaint. Employees of the Board shall be in a duty 
status during the time they are made available as 
witnesses. Witnesses shall be free from restraint, 
interference, coercion, discrimination, or reprisal 
in presenting their testimony. 
(E) The Board shall arrange for the preparation of either 
a verbatim record or a written summary of the hearing. 
If the hearing is recorded by a voice-recording 
machine and the complainant does not have a trans-
script of it, he and his representative shall have an 
opportunity to listen to the recording and have access 
to a copy of the summary of the hearing. When the 
hearing is summarized, the summary of the hearing 
shall, as a minimum, identify each witness and sum-
marize his testimony. The Board shall include with 
the verbatim transcript or written summary of the 
hearing all documents submitted to and accepted by 
the hearing officer or committee. The Board shall 
give the complainant a copy of the transcript when 
the hearing is transcribed on a verbatim basis or 
a copy of the summary of the hearing. If a summary 

-7-
of a hearing is made, the parties shall be entitled to 
submit written exceptions to the summary, and any 
exceptions so submitted shall be made part of the 
record of the hearing. 
(F) Following the hearing, the hearing officer or committee 
shall transmit the record of the hearing with appropriate 
findings to the Board. 
Section 6. Final Decision. 
(A) The Board, or someone designated by the Board, shall 
make the decision on a complaint and that decision 
shall be in writing. The decision shall resolve the 
issue of discrimination raised by the complainant and 
shall require any remedial action determined to be 
necessary or desirable to effectuate the resolution 
of this issue and to promote the policy of equal oppor-
tunity. Copies of the decision shall be sent to the 
complainant and his representative. 
(B) 
When a designated person makes the decision on a 
complaint, the complainant shall be advised of his 
right to have the Board review his complaint. 
Section 7. Delay in Handling Complaints. 
(A) 
All complaints shall be resolved expeditiously. To 
this end, both the complainant and the Board shall 
proceed with the complaint without undue delay so 
that the complaint is resolved, except in unusual 

3321 
-8-
circumstances, within 60 calendar days after its receipt 
by the Equal Employment Opportunity Officer when no hear-
ing is held or within 90 calendar days after its receipt 
when a hearing is held. 
(B) Where a complainant fails to prosecute the complaint 
without undue delay, such complaint may be canceled by 
the Board or may be adjudicated if sufficient information 
for that purpose is available. 
Section 8. Complaint File. 
(A) The Board shall establish a complaint file containing 
all documents pertinent to the complaint. 
(B) The complaint file shall include, as a minimum, copies 
of (1) the complaint; (2) the investigative file (if the 
complainant requested to review that file) or a written 
summary of the investigation; (3) if a hearing was held, 
the record of the hearing; (4) recommendations, if any, 
for settlement, (5) the decision of the Board or its 
designee, and (6) in the event the complaint is reopened 
by the Board, the decision of the Board showing the 
reconsideration given the complaint. 
(C) The complaint file shall not contain any document that 
has not been made available to the complainant. 
Section 9. Dissemination of Information. 
(A) These regulations and procedures shall be brought to 
the attention of all officers and employees of the 
Board of Governors by the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Officer, 

(B) A copy of these regulations and procedures and the 
names of the Board's Equal Employment Opportunity 
Officer and Deputy Equal Employment Opportunity 
Officer shall be posted on the Bulletin Board in 
the foyer to the cafeteria on the fourth floor of 
the Board's building* additional copies may be obtained 
from the Equal Employment Opportunity Officer or his 
Deputy. 
Section 10. Procedure Superseded. These rules and regula-
tl
°ns supersede the procedures regarding fair employment practices 
e s
tabli shed by the Board of Governors to carry out the spirit and 
P U r
Pose of Executive Orders 9980, 10590, and 10925. 
As R 
( S u D
l S e d A u
8
u s t 
1 8
> 1967. 
Persedes Regulations and Procedures approved July 25, 1955 and 
L L
 intervening amendments) 
' 
