MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 21, 1972 

1026 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
°n Friday, April 21, 1972. 
The Board met in the Board Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sheehan 
/floret: i .. ; 
. - • „ < 
•••••: 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The staff presented the regular weekly review of economic and 
financial conditions. 
Copies of the documentation prepared for pur-
Poses of the review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Mr. Rippey 
then commented on pending legislation and Congressional hearings of 
lnterest to the Board. 
Mr. Rippey's report included comments on views expressed to 
members of Congress by their constituent bankers regarding the Board's 
Ending proposals with respect to reserve requirements and check clearing. 
Pat' 
dVorable reactions predominated. 
Governor Sheehan spoke of adverse 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

mm 
A/21/72 
-2-
views he had heard from certain Reserve Bank directors, and Chairman 
Burns emphasized that when a Reserve Bank received any indication of 
complaint from one of its District bankers that might be based upon a 
degree of misunderstanding, it should promptly arrange for a personal 
visit by an officer of the Reserve Bank to the member bank concerned. 
Although further discussion indicated a general understanding that that 
Practice was being followed in all Districts, it was agreed that inquiries 
would be made to assure that that was the case. 
Members of the staff who had attended only for purposes of the 
review then withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Messrs. Althausen and Barnes, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Morgan, Assistant to the Secretary 
Mr. Tuttle, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
ia-JUSn •-.-. 
• • • . 
o 
: ' \r.." • • j.- 
- 
' / t ' • 
- • • -
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. 
The Board unanimously approved the application 
Miners and Merchants Bank, Lead, South Dakota, for permission to 
issue capital notes. 
A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached 
a s Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chase Manhattan 
° V erseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, for permission to 
' 
rs- , • 
» . 
_ ., • ; i,. 
r-.ve J tl'iC il D'vXlCat 1'Q ^ k i £ ' 
t 
Coritinue to hold shares of Banco Lar Brasileiro S.A., Rio de Janeiro, 
t) 
a zil, after the latter institution acquires shares of Banco Irmaos 
• 
inc. 
of! 'AClnnCat ami ^ tfffo r i aod 
's vxiana 
uimaraes de Investimentos S.A., also in Rio de Janeiro, and issues 
• ; dec i lion. ' A coov ut Che orde.r U attttch&d as Item 
6. 

4 
4/21/72 
-8-
certain debt obligations. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First State 
Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of the following Florida banks: 
First 
State Bank of Miami; Hialeah-Miami Springs First State Bank, Hialeah; 
North Hialeah First State Bank, Hialeah; Airport First State Bank, 
Miami; and Miami Lakes First State Bank, Miami. 
The Board authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First City 
Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of 
First National Bank in Arlington, Arlington, Texas, and authorized 
* i 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy of the order 
i s attached as Item No. 4. 
' ! 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
National Holding Corp., Atlanta, Georgia, to acquire shares of the 
vholly-owned consumer finance subsidiaries of Gulf Financial Corp., 
also of Atlanta, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this 
(3ecision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
National Holding Corp., Atlanta, Georgia, to acquire shares of Dixie 
Finance Co., Inc., also of Atlanta, and authorized issuance of an order 
E l e c t i n g this decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
i 
j 

1029 
4/21/72 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Imperial 
Bancorp, Los Angeles, California, to acquire shares of Rayor Realty 
Company, also of Los Angeles, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7 . 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
New York building program. 
In a memorandum of April 6, 1972, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended approval 
°f the request of the New York Reserve Bank to proceed with the design 
^evelopment phase of its proposed subsidiary building, subject to cer-
tain conditions. 
The Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
building Plans, in a memorandum of April 18, expressed general concur-
rence with the Division's recommendations, with modification of one of 
the conditions. 
A draft telegram to the Reserve Bank was attached. 
Discussion at today's meeting brought out that alternatives 
f o r constructing a building at an outlying site rather than adjacent 
t o the present building had been explored, with the conclusion by 
exPerts who had been consulted that as great or greater costs might 
156 involved, especially because of vault construction that would be 
n e cessary. 
Governor Mitchell emphasized that partial decentralization 
W a s contemplated in any event, in that the Bergen County and Long Island 
f a r i n g offices were being converted into regional check processing 
Centers, with expansion to include provision for coin, currency, and 
o ther operations to serve the regions outside the major Manhattan area. 
Moreover, the new structure could be rented to businesses, if necessary. 

1030 
4/21/72 
-8-
Governor Robertson observed that the expectations of a few years 
ago that increased automation would reduce personnel and space needs had 
not been realized. 
Response was made that the growth in volume was the 
significant element in that respect; if it had not been for the use of 
computers, personnel and space requirements would have advanced far 
beyond their present levels. 
After further discussion during which Chairman Burns and 
Governor Robertson expressed reservations, the telegram to the New York 
Reserve Bank was approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 8. 
Columbus RCPC. 
In a memorandum dated April 12, 1972, the 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans described 
a Proposal by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland for establishment 
a regional check processing center to be located in Columbus, Ohio. 
Committee had requested that the matter be placed on the agenda in 
order to gain the Board's views with respect to two aspects of the 
Proposal on which the Committee requested guidance from the Board, 
^irst, the Bank proposed leasing back-up computers as insurance against 
Processing failure. 
The Committee was concerned with the precedent that 
thus would be established for providing back-up equipment. 
Analysis of 
^own-time experience with the type of equipment to be used indicated 
tllat the additional expenditure could not be justified on the basis of 
amount of float that could be generated by equipment failure. 
q 
econd. the Reserve Bank proposed to lease space for the facility from 

1031 
4/21/72 
-8-
a member commercial bank. 
It was questioned whether, as a matter of 
Policy, the Federal Reserve System should share facilities with a com-
mercial bank. 
Discussion indicated agreement that duplicate computers should 
not be leased. 
Comments on the question of using quarters in a com-
mercial bank brought out that Governor Brimmer felt strongly that such 
an arrangement should not be permitted. 
Although it was understood 
that economy had prompted the proposal, one member of the Board cited 
the desirability of avoiding public misinterpretation or criticism. 
Another mentioned the merit of leaving discretion for operational 
arrangements in the hands of the Reserve Banks to the greatest extent 
Possible. 
Governor Sheehan suggested that the Board authorize proceeding 
with the establishment of the regional center on condition that quarters 
found elsewhere than in a commercial bank, with the understanding 
that if his negotiations should find the Reserve Bank continuing to 
advocate the use of commercial bank space, the question would be brought 
b a c k to the Board0 
•• V 
. 
, 
There was unanimous agreement with the procedure Governor 
Sheehan had suggested. 
First Bancorp. 
In memoranda of January 28 and 31, 1972, the 
banking Markets Section and the Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
respectively, recommended denial of the application of First Bancorp, Inc., 

4/21/72 
-7-
Cincinnati, Ohio, to become a bank holding company through acquisition 
°f shares of The Athens National Bank and The Security Bank, both in 
Athens, Ohio, and The New Richmond National Bank, New Richmond, Ohio. 
The Department of Justice had commented that the establishment of common 
ownership and control of the two Athens banks in 1966 appeared to have 
been anticompetitive in origin, and concluded that acquisition of both 
banks by First Bancorp would perpetuate a high degree of concentration 
and would have a significantly adverse effect on competition. 
After a discussion during which Chairman Burns expressed the 
view that better information regarding performance was needed from the 
s taff i n order to identify a serious anticompetitive situation, the 
aPplication was denied by unanimous vote. 
It was understood that appro-
priate documents reflecting this decision would be prepared for the 
board's consideration. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Director appointment. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta whether Mr. Edwin J. Caplan, President, 
C aPlan' s Men's Shops, Inc., Alexandria, Louisiana, would accept appoint-
m e n t if tendered as a director of the New Orleans Branch for the unexpired 
p o rtion of the term ending December 31, 1972, with the understanding that 
it were found that he would accept, the appointment would be made. 

1033 
4 / 2 1 / 7 2 
-8-
having been ascertained that Mr. Caplan would accept, an appointment 
telegram was sent to him on May 1, 1972.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
/Jr.- .-.{ , 
an-: 
(JESS', "iont 
•ct - 
. Bank 
the "v. 'i' ' i": 
in 
U c l ; Knilt:i , 
M n k rJ:- i... 
^ o t 
,;. 
'fithxn 
'V >Ui : »;• ; . J ; 
V'tlt , , s, 
,» 
•.''.' • • -, i 
tfo 
. ! t j 
( ' ) 
' . 
y : . ! • 
• > 
• - ; i : • . 
> I: .1 
Si 
O ." ; 
App 
O V i i 
ii« 
o-.-^itil leb 
. 
M'- M."! 
J. - 
0 
i I 
t ' 1 !' 

/^jOF GoiV • 
^ 
1034 
b o a r d 
d f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
4/21/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C U R H E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 21, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Miners and Merchants Bank 
Lead, South Dakota 
Gentlemen: 
J . ( 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3) (i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $25,000 
in subordinated capital debentures by Miners and Merchants Bank, 
Lead, South Dakota, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis. 
Approval is granted with the understanding 
that the sale of these capital debentures will be consummated 
vithin six-months from the date of this letter. 
It is further 
understood that any advertising with respect to the obligations 
vill, in addition to being in compliance with the provisions of 
section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of 
t he obligation from a deposit, including by setting forth in bold 
f ace type that the obligation is subordinated to the claims of 
depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

1035 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
4/21/72 
A D D N E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T I I E 
B O A R D 
April 21, 1972 
C'na Se Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
^ Chase Manhattan' Plaz 
New York, New York 
aza 
10005 
Gen t'l c.men 
: (:(• 
i 
.. 
Morr-li 9 
1972 
the Board of 
a, vpciuested in your letter of Marcn J, 
S ^ T c ^ e n t 
tlr your Corporation ("CKOBC 
\a hold the shares of Banco Lar Brasileiro S.A. ( Banco La,. ; , K 
J*«iro, Brazil, after Banco Lar acquires, at a total, cost 
I 
>• 
mately 54 70? 749, 66.7 per cent of the non-voting preferred shares o£ 
11 
3 
^ 
J 
V / V / . l 
I 
/ l l
R T p t l \ 
Xrmaos Guimaraes de Investimentos S.A. 
J5Jl\/' 
Rio de Janeiro, 
^
C
^
^
T
c
r 
cent of the shares (quotas) of ,^ B r a z U - n ^oldxng 
( " H o l d i n g Company") formed to acquire all of the outstanding 
V°ling shares of BIG. 
The Board's consent to the proposed acquisition of ^ a t e s 
folding Company by Banco Lar is granted on the condition that Ho 
11Pany restrict its activities to the holding of shares of BIG. 
BIG 
M 
The Board's consent to the proposed acquisition of shares of 
by Banco Lar is granted subject to the following conditions. 
(1) That CM0BC shall not hold directly, or indirectly, any 
shares of stock of BIG if BIG at any time fails to re 
strict its activities to those permissible to a corpo 
ration in which a corporation organized under Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, could with the 
. consent of the Board of Governors 
purchase and hold 
stock, or if BIG establishes any branch or agency or 
takes any action or undertakes any operation in Btazil 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to CM0BC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of G o y c r n o r s C M O B C 
will furnish the Board with such reports reg.rding 
the activities of BIG as it may require from time to 
time; and 

103G 
To: Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BIG be repotted 
under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the same manner as 
if. B'lG were a corporation organized under Section 25(.a) ot 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
SusPends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1 ol 
immediately preceding paragraph of this letter in so far as they 
to restrict ions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b) , and (c) of 
ion K. 
&e8,ulat 
The Board also grants consent for CMOBC to continue to hold 
d i r e c t l y shares of BIG after BIG issues and has outstanding debt 
ligations with a maturity in excess of one year, up to an amount not 
d e e d i n g at; any one time $5,000,000. 
You have requested consent for BIG to engage in the business 
°£ « M . e t W i t l n , or dealing in securities. 
The Board's consent to such 
'ctivities is conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining the prior 
S ^ e a t of the Board for the continued holding ol shares of BIG should 
B l G acquire stock of individual issuers costing in excess of ?500,000 
0 t tepresentinK 2 5 per cent of the voting shares of any company, except 
"the „ s . of u n d e r w r i t i n g operations covered by 
f
i
r
m c o m m e n t s from 
^underwriters or other purchasers. 
With respect to trading i> secu-
*lt*«» in which Corporations are prohibited from investing by v e pro-
t o n s of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federa 
Reserve 
t * ' the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact that BIG 
acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain - size 
turnover of inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, a,id 
lsP0se Of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
^ t e d 
under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. 
However 
they are to 
tcPorted as a separate class, together with the date of acquisition 
° n a»y Call Report of Condition or similar report requested by the Board 
t. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisitions 
it is requested 
» h a t the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reoorvo 
of Hew York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
^ e l a t i o n , and By-Laws of Holding Company and BIG. 

Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-3-
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
investments will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National Association 
a n d its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
. 
. 
• . 
, • 
, ' . 
, . . 
. 
^ 
. 
' 
ill 
\. t -
• ^ v w 

1038 
Item No. 
1 
4/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST STATE BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
First State Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, has applied 
f o r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
^ i s i t i o n of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of the following 
banks located in Florida: First State Bank of Miami, Miami ("Miami Bank"); 
Hi-aleah - Miami Springs First State Bank, Hialeah ("Hialeah Bank"); 
North Hialeah First State Bank, Hialeah ("North Hialeah Bank"); Airport 
Flrst State Bank, Miami ("Airport Bank"); and Miami Lakes First State 
B a n k, Miami ("Miami Lakes Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in accordance 
§ 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and views has 
e*Ptred. The Board has considered the application and all comments re-
vived in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(1 9 
V^U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, a nonoperating corporation, was formed for the purpose 
of 
acclviiring the proposed group of five banks. Upon acquisition of 
Bank (deposits of $101 million); Hialeah Bank (deposits of 
$7<* 
million); North Hialeah Bank (deposits of $17 million); Airport 
B a n k (deposits of $11 million); and Miami Lakes Bank which was opened 
Member 1, 197^ Applicant would control 1.38 per cent of the State's 
4eP°sits in commercial banks and would be Florida's sixteenth largest 
h°lding company (all banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and 

1039 
-2-
reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved through 
Pebruary 29, 1972). 
The five proposed banks are located in the northeastern portion 
the Miami banking market, and upon consummation of this proposal, 
applicant would control 6 per cent of the total deposits in the market 
and be the fourth largest banking organization. Although the service 
ateas of the five banks overlap, no meaningful present competition would 
eUminated by the proposed formation since this proposal represents 
a c°rporate reorganization of the five banks which have been closely 
filiated over a long period of time. Common shareholders control 51 per 
or more of the outstanding stock of each bank, and the group has a 
0rnrn°n directorate and shares banking services. The group competes with 
thr 
e e larger banking organizations in the market controlling 27, 9, and 
9 
P e r C e nt, respectively, of market deposits, one of which is the State's 
S®3t holding company. 
It appears that disaffiliation of the group 
unlikely even in the absence of this proposal, and, therefore, con-
aviQunat. 
Llon of the proposed formation would not significantly affect 
Potent< i 
competition, nor have an adverse effect on other area banks. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and the 
P°3ed subsidiaries are satisfactory and consistent with approval, and 
aPPears that prospects for the group are favorable. The formation would 
0 immediate effect on the convenience and needs of the communities 
tnv°lverf u 
however some expansion and improvement in present services 
offered K 
°y the proposed subsidiaries are likely. Considerations relating 

1040 
-3-
co the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are, 
therefore, consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
tlle proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
aPPllcation should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
^ e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period ig extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
**ank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
April 21, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
ancjV?5in8 f o r t h i s action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
"eehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 

1041 
Item No. 1 
4/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, a 
^ank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
^ 
U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
S h a r e s 
First National Bank in Arlington, Arlington, Texas ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in accor-
a n c e w i t h § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
i e W s h a s expired. The Board has considered the application and all 
COlr'ments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
t h e Act (12 u.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls 7 banks with aggregate deposits of $1.3 
°n» which amounts to 4.7 per cent of deposits in commercial banks 
Te*as. (Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding 
Patly formations and acquisitions approved to date.) 
Bank (with deposits of $43.4 million) is the fifth largest 
hanks i n the Fort Worth banking market and controls 2.4 per cent 
of 
deposits in that market. Since Applicant's closest subsidiary is 
l°cated over 200 miles from Bank and Texas' laws prohibit branching, 
It 
Ppears that consummation of the proposed transaction would not 
eUtuina(. 
c e any meaningful existing or potential competition. Additionally, 
thr 
e e largest banks in the market control 64 per cent of such 

1042 
-2-
^eposits and consuirmation of the proposal would have a procompetitive 
effect by enhancing Bank's ability to compete. 
Applicant will provide Bank with expertise in construction 
a n d mortgage lending, business and industrial development, and 
international banking. In addition, Bank will benefit from expanded 
Ending capability through loan participations and the availability 
credit as needed. Considerations related to the convenience and 
n e e d s 
the communities to be served lend weight in favor of approval, 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant, 
its subsidiary banks, and Bank are generally satisfactory and consistent 
^ith 
approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
8 Uch 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Heservo Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 1/ April 21, 1972. 
• 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
[SE/^j 
Secretary of the Board 
S i t i n g f o r this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
and n • a n d Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, Maisel 
Citrine r. 

1043 
Item No, 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/21/72 
FIRST NATIONAL HOLDING CORP. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Wholly-owned Consumer Finance 
Subsidiaries of Gulf Financial Corp. 
First National Holding Corp., Atlanta, Georgia, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, as amended, has applied for the Board's approval, 
u*der § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 5 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
^eSulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of the wholly-
°X7ned consumer finance subsidiaries of Gulf Financial Corp. ("Gulf"), 
Atl 
a n ta, Georgia, also a registered bank holding company. Notice 
^ fche application affording opportunity for interested persons to 
Submit comments and views has been duly published. Time for filing 
c°niments and views has expired and those received have been considered, 
Applicant's banking subsidiary, First National Bank of 
Atl 
'•anta ("First National"), is the third largest bank in the State 
Goergia and the second largest bank in the Atlanta Standard 
IIetr°P°litan Statistical Area ("SMSA"), which is comprised of 
Cobb, DeKalb, Fulton, and Gwinnett Counties, and holds 
eP°sitg of $762.4 million representing 22.8 per cent of total 
deP°sits in the Atlanta SIISA as of June 30, 1970. (All banking 
data a re as of June 30, 1971, unless otherwise indicated.) 
The wholly-owned consumer finance subsidiaries of Gulf 
total loans outstanding of $6.6 million as of June 30, 1971, 
and nr. 
"Pirate 38 offices in the State of Mississippi. Collectively, 

1044 
-2-
^ese subsidiaries constitute the third larsest consumer finance 
Oration licensed under Mississippi Small Loan Laws, These sub-
diaries make high-risk direct cash loans on an installment basis 
to individuals and families and sell credit-related insurance in 
c°nnection with their lending activities. 
Although, as indicated above, First National does extend 
c°n8umer credit, it is legally prohibited from operating an office 
0utside of Fulton and DeKalb Counties and, therefore, is effectively 
Prevented from competing for personal loan business in Mississippi. 
Applicant is able to enter the State of Mississippi de novo through 
establishment of personal loan companies. However, the existence 
of m 
potential entrants into Mississippi personal loan markets 
finishes any possible adverse effects that consummation of the 
Pto 
Posed acquisitions might have upon potential competition in that 
State • The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisi-
^io 
ttould not eliminate any existing or significant potential com-
i on between Applicant and the wholly-owned consumer finance 
b°idiaries of Gulf. Further, there is no significant probability 
tH^t th acquisition will have adverse effects on credit availability 
to 
^ 
ependent finance companies. 
Gulf Financial Corp. is a registered bank holding company 
n g total assets of approximately $22.2 million as of December 31, 
1970. Tf. 
l t is anticipated that affiliation of Gulf's wholly-owned 

-3 
1045 
consumer finance subsidiaries with Applicant would give those 
Subsidiaries access to the greater resources of Applicant and 
enable them to compete more effectively with other consumer 
finance companies in the areas in which they operate. There is no 
evidence in the record indicating that consummation of the proposed 
transaction would result in any undue concentration of resources, 
Ut*fair competition, conflicts of interests, unsound banking practices, 
other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
the record, the Board hereby approves the application. This 
^termination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 
225-4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require 
Su°h modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
°°mPany or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act 
an<3 the Board1 s regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
^Vent evasions thereof. 
By order of the Board of GovernorsApril 21, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
r:' Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^ t c h o i i 
_ 
. 
1 
a 1 
tr/^f-i r»rr • H n v ^ r n r>T!q Dflflne. 
Mai 
c h e U , and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, 
Sel> and Brimmer. 

1046 
Item No. 1 
4/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL HOLDING CORP. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Dixie Finance Company 
First National Holding Corp., Atlanta, Georgia, a bank 
company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 
as amended, has applied for the Board's approval, under 
0 
of the Act and £> 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, 
to 
acquire all of the voting shares of Dixie Finance Company 
("Dixie"), Atlanta, Georgia* Notice of the application affording 
°PP°rtunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
expired and those received have been considered. 
has 
Applicant's banking subsidiary, First National Bank 
0f Atlanta ("First National"), is the third largest bank in the 
State of Georgia *nd the second largest bank in the Atlanta 
St 
at*dard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA"), which is com-
P r i s e d of Clayton, Cobb, DeKalb, Fulton, and Gwinnett Counties, 
arid holds deposits of $699.7 nillion representing 22.8 per cent 
of t 
tal deposits in the Atlanta SMSA. (All banking data are as 
°f J*ine 30, 1970, unless otherwise indicated.) First National 
s consumer installment loans through its headquarters office 
aad b*anch offices throughout tha Atlanta SMSA. As of December 31, 
1970 » First National held personal loans amounting to $22.4 million, 
I 
bt 
luting 12.4 per cent of the total personal loans made by the 
ar*s and 79 finance companies making such loans in the Atlanta 
• First National is thereby the largest personal lender in 
^ 
A n 
Atlanta SMSA. 

-2 
1047 
Dixie is a consumer finance company with total assets 
o f $17.5 million. It operates 54 offices in Georgia, of which 
5 are i n the Atlanta Si-ISA, 13 offices in Louisiana, and one 
office in Florida, Dixie makes direct cash loans on an install-
ment basis to individuals and families under State small loan 
and sells credit insurance in connection with its lending 
a°tivities. The five Atlanta offices of Dixie hold personal 
loans in the amount of $1.6 million, constituting 0.9 per cent of 
t h e market, and thereby ranks 26th of the 137 competitors in the 
At! 
xanta personal loan market. 
Although First National and Dixie both compete for 
peraonaI loan business in the Atlanta SMSA, consummation of the 
Proposed 
acquisition would not have any significant adverse effect 
° n listing competition since the market share of First National 
V7°uld be increased only 0.9 F e r c e n t a n d there would remain a 
8ubstantial number of independent competitors in the market. 
Georgia branching law precludes the establishment of 
b ^ i n g offices outside the Atlanta SMSA by First National. There-
the development of competition between First National and 
^ i e beyond the Atlanta S1ISA is unlikely. Applicant is able to 
enter markets served by Dixie outside of the Atlanta area through 
tlle establishment of its own personal loan companies. However, 
existence of many potential entrants into such personal loan 
diminishes any possible adverse effects that consummation 
Of "e proposed acquisition might have upon potential competition. 

1048 
- 2 -
^ e Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
w°uld not have a serious adverse effect upon existing or potential 
c°mpetition between Applicant and Dixie, Further, there is no 
si8nificant possibility that the acquisition will have adverse 
e^fects on credit availability to independent finance companies. 
It is anticipated that Dixie's affiliation with Applicant 
Vili give Dixie access to the greater resources of Applicant, and 
enable it to compete more effectively with other consumer finance 
c°mPanies in the areas in which it operates. There is no evidence 
iti ne record indicating that consummation of the proposed trans-
would result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair 
^Petition, conflicts of interests, unsound banking practices, 
or 
other adverse effects that are not outweighed by public benefits 
that 
m ay be reasonably expected to be produced by consummation of 
t h e Proposed acquisition. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
til the 
record, the Board hereby approves the application. This 
ermination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 
m°dification or termination of the activities of a holding 
°r any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to 
of Regulation Y and to the Board1s authority to require 

-2-
25 
assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act 
and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
Prevent evasions thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-'' April 21, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
•- - 
• -•••-
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
I SEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, 
Maisel, and Brimmer. 
r 
, 
r>-

1050 
Item No. 1 
4/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
IMPERIAL BANCORP 
Order Approving Acquisition of Rayor Realty Company 
Imperial Bancorp, Los Angeles, California, a bank holding 
C°mpany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of the 
A c t and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire voting 
®hares of the Rayor Realty Company, Los Angeles, California ("Rayor"). 
^otice of the application affording opportunity for interested persons 
to submit comments and views was duly published. The time for filing 
Omenta and views has expired and all received have been considered. 
Applicant owns Imperial Bank in Los Angeles, whose deposits 
million represent .3,per cent of deposits in the Los Angeles 
banki"g market." 
Rayor, a non-operating company, was formed in 1957 to engage 
in r 
real estate brokerage activities. It has not engaged in such activi-
iea for the past five years—^ nor has Rayor engaged in mortgage banking 
ctivities i n recent years. Accordingly, Applicant's acquisition of 
HayOT. 
r toay be viewed as similar to de novo entry into mortgage banking. 
refore. Applicant's acquisition of Rayor will have no adverse effect 
^ 
DePosit data is based on June, 1971 data; banking market share data 
1/ 
of June, 1970. 
acti
 pPlicant realizes that real estate brokerage is not a permissible 
under § 4(c)(8) and has assured the Board that Rayor will not 
in real estate brokerage activities. 

1051 
0 n either existing or potential competition and will have the pro-
competitive effect of adding an additional firm to the mortgage banking 
industry. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^termination is subject to the Board's authority to require reports 
by> and make examinations of, holding companies and their subsidiaries 
and to require such modification or termination of the activities of 
* holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds nec-
t a r y to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the 
A c t and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
prevent evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- April 21, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(SEAL] 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
ffiT^'p* 'iii 
f- -•"•'• •-•• 
-•-•-' •• -
J 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 

Item No. 8 
T E L E G R A M
 
4 / 2 1 / 7 2 
1
0
5
2 
LEASEO WIRE SERVICE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
~ 
April 21, 1972 
Treiber - New York 
Xn its review of the revised building program and plans, the Board has 
no objection to the Bank's request to proceed with the design develop-
ment phase of the proposed subsidiary building, based on the February 
1972 target budget cost of $61.3 million, contingent on the Bank Ts 
(1) successful negotiation of a lease agreement with the City of 
N e w York to utilize the land described under Maiden Lane; (2) successful 
termination of existing long-term and other leases; and (3) acquisition 
of certain air and property rights from the John Street Methodist 
Church as described in President Hayes* letter of February 22, 1972. 
Cost related to items (2) and (3) are not to exceed $6.1 million. 
While it is realized that the New York Planning Commission may con-
j 
sider that the Bank is not within its regulatory jurisdiction, every 
effort should be made to insure that the Commission has no objection to 
the basic design concept of the proposed building.' The Board should be 
: ' v 1 
Apprised of the outcome of the negotiations of the. above items. 
Greater utilization of contingency and expansion space should be 
' 
Provided for tenant purposes than is currently allocated in the main 
dnd subsidiary buildings; this can be accomplished through tighter dis- . 
tribution of departmental assignments to the floors. 
I ..>.•: ; 
While the proposed February 1972 cost of the subsidiary building, 
C stimated at $61,315,000, or $71.47 per gross square foot, appears to 
be • 
e within current guidelines, the Bank should make every effort to 
deduce these costs during the development and construction document 
p hases of the project. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Greenspan 
