MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 13, 1969 

IS 18 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, June 13, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Sigel, Williams, 
Eckert, Keir, Wernick, Baker, Burns, Ettin, 
Fry, and Kichline of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Ghiardi, Hersey, Altmann, and Bradshaw, 
and Mrs. Junz of the Division of International 
Finance 
Money market review. Today's review included reports on the 
Government securities market, bank credit developments, and the 
foreign exchange and Euro-dollar markets. Copies of the documentation 
f ,, 
Prepared for the purpose of today's review have been placed in the 
Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Partee 
and Altmann then withdrew from the meeting, as did Messrs. Broida and 
Bernard, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 

6/13/69 
-2-
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Ducy, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, 
and Dallas on June 12, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Menlo Savings Bank, Menlo, 
Iowa, into Casey State Bank, Casey, Iowa, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 
concl 
usion stated that the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Liberty National Bank and Trust Company of Oklahoma City, 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, with Liberty Bank, National Association, 
al 
so of Oklahoma City, a transaction designed to facilitate acquisition 
°f the existing bank by a newly-formed holding company, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 

1950 
6/13/69 
-3-
Currency and coin services. Pursuant to the understanding at 
the Board meeting on June 5, 1969, members of the Board's staff 
subsequently met with representatives of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco to discuss alternatives 
for providing currency and coin services to Hawaii and Puerto Rico 
upon the phasing out at the end of June of the U.S. Treasurer's 
custody accounts in those locations. 
In a memorandum dated June 12, 1969, Mr. Kiley indicated that 
there appeared to be no significant problem with respect to Hawaii. 
The San Francisco Bank would advise the nonmember banks in Hawaii that 
the Reserve Bank would provide currency and coin service upon request, 
but at the expense and risk of the requesting bank. The only member 
bank (Hawaii National) would of course receive those services at the 
expense and risk of the Reserve Bank. 
However, it appeared to System representatives that the situa-
tion in Puerto Rico was somewhat more complex and that a long-range 
solution could not be found prior to June 30. The question of 
extending for 90 days the closing date of the Puerto Rico custody 
account was raised with the Treasury. It was reported that there 
would be no objection on their part, although the Treasury, in making 
the deferment, would want to indicate that the action was being taken 
at the request of the Federal Reserve. 
Governor Brimmer expressed his understanding that Hawaii 
National Bank was prepared to assume the responsibility of depositary, 

i 
i 
6/13/69 
-4-
but had been discouraged by the Treasury and the Federal Reserve. 
Mr. Kiley replied that the Treasury apparently was of the view that 
a depositary was not needed, and the Federal Reserve did not have 
sufficient information at this time to make a judgment as to the 
need. 
Governor Brimmer then expressed the view that, since a large 
volume of currency was needed in the Islands, particularly because 
of the tourist traffic, access to new currency would seem to be at 
necessity to replace the unfit currency that would accumulate. 
Mr. Kiley commented that it was probable that Hawaii National 
Bank would eventually assume the role of supplier in the natural 
course of events because nonmember banks would be reluctant to bear 
the expense and risk of shipments from the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that if the end result was likely 
to be the same, it would seem worth while for the Reserve Bank to 
explore the situation further. 
Mr. Kiley then responded to a number of questions from members 
°f the Board having to do with possible alternatives in Puerto Rico. 
It was then agreed to advise the Treasury that the Board would 
not object to an indication by the Treasury that the closing of the 
Puerto Rico depositary was being deferred at the request of the 
Federal Reserve. 
H.R. 2692. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to the 
Bureau of the Budget opposing enactment of H.R. 2692, a bill to 

1952 
i 
6/13/69 
-5-
permit American citizens to hold gold. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Regulations on advertising. Governor Robertson reviewed 
the status of the development through the Interagency Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation of uniform regulations relating to 
advertising of interest paid on deposits. The Treasury favored a 
requirement that interest rates be stated in terms of the nominal 
annual rate. The Home Loan Bank Board was willing to go along, and 
Governor Robertson was sympathetic. The Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation was awaiting the reaction of the Comptroller of the 
Currency before taking a position. Governor Robertson was hopeful 
that the decisions of the Comptroller and the FDIC would be forth-
coming today, in which case he would bring the matter back to the 
Board next week. 
Nantucket conference. Governor Daane reported on the monetary 
seminar held by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston in Nantucket on 
June 9-10, noting that it was the first one of its type and a successful 
undertaking. 
Travel by Mr. Taylor. The Board approved unanimously travel 
by Stephen Taylor of the Division of Research and Statistics to Rome 
to conduct a seminar at the Bank of Italy following his attendance at 
an OECD meeting to be held in Paris in June. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 

I 
6/13/69 
-6-
Discount rate. Mr. Holland reported that the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis had again established a dis-
count rate of 7 per cent, subject to review and determination by 
the Board of Governors, and that the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago had taken similar action. 
It: w a s agreed that no action would be taken on the proposals 
at this time, and that any additional proposals also would be held 
in abeyance. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
O F T H E 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/13/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 13, 1969. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Attention: Mr. James M. Frey 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
The Board of Governors opposes enactment of H. R. 2692, 
a bill to permit American citizens to hold gold. 
The principal effect of the bill would be to enable 
Americans to hold gold for speculation and hoarding. American 
citizens who have a legitimate need to acquire and hold gold for 
use in industry or the arts are already able to obtain such gold 
under U.S. Treasury license. 
Authority for Americans to hold gold for speculative 
purposes would tend to undermine the efforts being made by the 
United States and other countries to strengthen the international 
monetary system. The addition to private speculative demand for 
gold would contribute to supporting its free-market price above the 
price that would result from demands of industry and the arts alone 
and would contribute false hope to those who expect that the official 
price of gold will one day be raised above $35 an ounce. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
. ' v' . r -1 v :f - . • :'. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
ML 
res? 
