Minutes for October 19, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve A c t . 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the m i n u t e s , it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the m e e t i n g , 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4013 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 19, 1967. 
The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a . m . 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
M r . Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
M r . M o l o n y , Assistant to the Board 
M r . Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
M r . H a c k l e y , General Counsel 
M r . S h a y , Assistant General Counsel 
M r . Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
M r . Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
M r . Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
M r . Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
M r . Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
M r . Forrestal, Special A s s i s t a n t , Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss W o l c o t t , Technical Assis tant, Office of the 
Secretary 
M e s s r s . Craig, Doyle, Sanders, and Via of the 
Legal Division 
M r . Maguire and Miss Bradley of the Division of 
Examinations 
Application of First National City Overseas Investment Corpora-
tion. 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated October 9, 1967, 
from the Division of Examinations relating to the request of First 
National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New Y o r k , New Y o r k , a 
S e
c t i o n 25(a) corporation, for permission to acquire up to 90 per cent 

10/19/67 
-2-
of the capital stock of Laurentide Financial Trust Ltd., London, 
England. Laurentide, a British holding company, owned three subsid-
iaries whose principal activities were in the consumer financing field. 
In connection with the extension of mortgage loans, one of the subsid-
iaries also provided life insurance facilities. The Division recommended 
that consent be granted to the corporation's request, on condition that 
no material change be made in the nature of the insurance operations of 
the one subsidiary. 
Question was raised by Governor Mitchell how the national inter-
est would be served by the entry of applicant into the consumer financing 
business in Great Britain. As he recalled, investments of Edge and agree-
ment corporations in foreign enterprises had customarily been linked in 
some way to the promotion of U.S. exports or to the financial or indus-
trial advancement of an underdeveloped country. The current proposal 
would appear to serve purely the corporate interest, and it was not 
clear to him that the investment would be consistent with the objectives 
°f Regulation K (Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing 
under the Federal Reserve Act). 
Governor Brimmer broadened the question to ask how approval of 
a
n investment of the type contemplated could be justified in view of 
the balance of payments situation. He noted the efforts of the Commerce 
Department, through its voluntary restraint program, to limit direct 
investments abroad by nonfinancial corporations. 

'i 0 ? 5 
10/19/67 
-3-
M r . Shay commented that the statute immediately involved 
(section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve A c t ) contained no specific pro-
vision that would make it mandatory to establish a benefit to the 
interests of the U.S. in a matter of this kind, although there were 
some references to the development of U.S. foreign trade. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the regulation might be amended 
to introduce a balance of payments criterion, and Governor Robertson 
noted that the statute vests in the Board discretion to approve or dis-
approve proposed investments. 
Accordingly, the Board could establish 
its own criteria, of which the balance of payments effect could be one. 
M r . Shay agreed that there was in existence an expression of 
national policy in the form of the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
Program. 
From a legal point of view, however, he had reservations about 
turning down a proposed investment by an Edge or agreement corporation 
solely on balance of payments grounds. 
M r . Sammons remarked that denial of a request such as the one 
before the Board would suggest a more restrictive policy with respect 
to banks and their subsidiaries than nonfinancial corporations so far 
as the voluntary restraint program was concerned, but Governor Brimmer 
noted that within its guidelines the Department of Commerce was encourag-
ing enterprises to finance abroad as much of their foreign operations as 
Possible. 

401G 
10/19/67 
-4-
Governor Maisel observed that the discussion appeared to raise 
the question whether a logical distinction could be made between loans 
and direct investments. 
He would be willing to read a paper setting 
forth a theory on which to base such a distinction, but he would not 
want to make a decision today. 
In further discussion Governor Mitchell reiterated that accord-
ing to his understanding of Regulation K and its preamble an equity 
investment by an Edge or agreement corporation should be justified on 
grounds other than purely the corporate interest. 
M r . Dahl stated his recollection that there had been cases of 
investments by Edge corporations in finance companies in certain devel-
oped countries. 
He added that one of the purposes of section 25(a) was 
to enable U.S. banks operating abroad to compete effectively with foreign 
institutions. 
In the United Kingdom a number of banks operated subsid-
iaries through which they were able to enter the consumer finance busi-
ness . 
Governor Robertson then suggested that the staff analyze the 
questions presented by the pending application in the light of today's 
discussion and develop for the Board's consideration a rationale for 
making decisions on applications of this kind. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the staff, in undertaking such 
a
 study, develop a criterion related to the balance of payments, and 
Governor Robertson added that the staff should explore other criteria 
as well. 

4017 
10/19/67 
-5-
There was agreement that such a study should be made by the 
staff, and a decision on the pending application was deferred. 
Application of Bankers International Corporation (Item No. 1). 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to Bankers International Cor-
poration, New York, New York, granting consent to the acquisition, 
either directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries, of shares of 
Power Corporation Australia Limited, Sydney, Australia. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Application of Union and New Haven Trust Company (Items 2 and 3). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's denial on October 4 , 1967, of the application of The Union 
a
n d New Haven Trust Company, New H a v e n , Connecticut, to merge with The 
Tradesmens National Bank of New H a v e n . 
Mr. Sherman noted that the competitive factor report of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had been received subsequent to 
the date of the Board's action and that copies had been made available 
to the members of the Board. 
The issuance of the order and statement was then authorized, 
subject to the incorporation into the statement of a change in wording 
suggested by Governor Daane. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are 
attached as Items 2 and 3. 
Application of Exchange State Bank (Items 4 and 5). 
There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 

4 018 
10/19/67 
-6-
approval on October 9, 1967, of the application of Exchange State Bank, 
Lanark, Illinois, to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of 
The National Bank of Lanark. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 4 and 5. 
Several members of the staff who had participated in the dis-
cussion of the foregoing items withdrew from the meeting at this point 
and the following entered: 
M r . Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
M r . Holland, Adviser to the Board 
M r . Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Proposed amendment to Regulation T . 
There had been distributed 
a draft of amendment to Regulation T (Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and 
Members of National Securities Exchanges) that would extend by one day, 
that is, to five full business days after the transaction, the period 
in which the creditor is required to obtain the customer's deposit on 
a margin transaction. 
The purpose of the change would be to relieve 
Pressure on bookkeeping departments of brokerage firms by insuring that 
a
 weekend would always be included in the period of time within which 
the required deposit must be obtained. 
Governor Robertson observed that such an amendment had been 
recommended by representatives of the New York Stock Exchange. 
It 
seemed to him the additional amount of credit that would be involved 

4019 
10/19/67 
-7-
was not significant enough to deny the benefits that would be derived 
from the change. 
After some discussion of the effects of the proposal, both in 
terms of credit volume involved and market techniques, Mr. Hackley noted 
that it would be possible for the allowable period of time to embrace 
two weekends. An alternative would be to allow seven calendar days 
instead of five working days. He also pointed out that the amendment, 
as proposed, would become effective immediately without publication in 
the Federal Register for comment. Even in the case of a liberalizing 
amendment, he saw some advantage in publishing for comment. 
In response to a question as to disadvantages of publication 
for comment, the staff indicated that there would appear to be little 
disadvantage if the proposed amendment were published along with the 
other proposals relating to margin regulations, as authorized at the 
meeting on October 18, and became effective immediately at the expira-
tion of the 30-day period. 
M r . Partee pointed out that the Stock Exchange 
was particularly interested in having relief prior to the heavy volume of 
year-end transactions, and that a 30-day delay would still permit the 
change to become effective in sufficient time. 
With respect to the first point raised by Mr. Hackley, Governor 
Maisel suggested that since the New York Stock Exchange had not raised 
the question of alternatives it would be better to publish the five-day 
Proposal as set forth in the distributed draft amendment. If an alter-
native proposal was then made, the Board could reconsider the question. 

4020 
10/19/67 
-8-
Publication of the proposed amendment in the Federal Register 
for comment was then authorized. 
Secretary's Note: 
Attached as Item No. 6 
is a copy of the press statement on pro-
posals with respect to margin regulations 
that was released on Friday afternoon, 
October 20. 
Request for testimony on H.R. 12646. Governor Robertson men-
tioned that in a letter dated October 12, 1967, Chairman Patman of the 
House Banking and Currency Committee had requested that the Board pre-
sent testimony on H.R. 12646, a bill to prohibit Federally insured banks 
from making unsolicited commitments to extend credit (through the issu-
ance of credit cards), when hearings were held on November 8, 1967. 
There was agreement with Governor Robertson's suggestion that 
Governor Brimmer testify on behalf of the Board. 
Retail credit data. Governor Robertson stated that the Divi-
sion of Research and Statistics, in a memorandum dated October 6, 1967, 
recommended entering into an agreement with the Census Bureau for con-
tinuation of development work and monthly data collection in connection 
w
ith the retail credit data program, which agreement would cover the 
12 months beginning July 1967, at an estimated cost of $35,500. The 
1967 budget of the Division of Research and Statistics included a pro-
vision of $16,500 to cover costs of the program for the last six months 
°f this calendar year, and provision for the January-June 1968 data 
months had been tentatively made in the Division's proposed budget for 

4021. 
10/19/67 
-9-
1968. 
However, an advance of $35,500 to the Census Bureau at this time 
would not result in an overexpenditure in the appropriate account of the 
1967 budget of the Division. 
After M r . Partee reviewed the circumstances under which the 
Board had been financing the retail credit data program, Governor 
Brimmer asked if efforts were continuing to negotiate with the Census 
Bureau on a program looking toward improvement of the retail sales 
series. 
M r . Brill replied that he understood the Bureau was presently 
contemplating the availability of appropriated funds to pursue that 
work. 
However, if an appropriations problem seemed to be involved, the 
Bureau might return to the Federal Reserve later with a request for 
assistance. 
The proposed agreement with the Census Bureau, as outlined by 
Governor Robertson, was then authorized. 
Voluntary foreign credit restraint program. 
Governor Robertson 
remarked that as matters stood it appeared that the Board would not be 
able to obtain concurrence in its proposal to remove from the guide-
lines of the voluntary foreign credit restraint program for financial 
institutions the exemption for credits guaranteed or arranged by the 
Export-Import Bank or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Associa-
tion. 
Consequently, he would suggest that the proposed program be 
revised on the basis of two alternatives, the first of which the Board 
Would urge and the second of which would be substituted if necessary. 

10/19/67 
-10-
40<>2 
The first alternative would contemplate retaining the exemption from 
the guidelines for loans guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank or insured 
by the Foreign Credit Insurance Association but dropping the exemption 
for loans arranged by the Export-Import Bank. 
Such a change would 
probably tighten the voluntary program to the extent of about $200 mil-
lion according to estimates that Governor Brimmer had obtained from the 
Export-Import Bank. 
The effect would be felt principally by the larger 
banks, but at present those banks had a substantial aggregate leeway 
under the terms of the voluntary program. 
In addition, such a change 
might satisfy those who were arguing for some tightening of the Federal 
Reserve program in support of the strengthening of the Commerce Depart-
ment's program for 1968. 
Otherwise, the proposed Federal Reserve program would stand in 
the form in which it had been drafted, Governor Robertson said. 
He 
would not favor reducing the 2 per cent feature to 1-1/2 per cent, par-
ticularly since the additional latitude provided thereby would have to 
be used for export credits or credits to developing countries.—^ 
Neither 
would he favor reducing the existing general bank ceiling, that is, 109 per 
cent of the 1964 b a s e , to 107 per cent. 
Such a move would be unfair to 
I./ According to the proposed program a bank whose foreign assets 
were less than 2 per cent of total assets at the end of 1966 would be 
Permitted a ceiling of 2 per cent of such total assets if that amount 
was larger than the bank's ceiling under the 1967 program. 
However, 
the bank would have to utilize the excess over the 1967 ceiling only 
for export credits or credits to developing countries. 
Banks with no 
bases could apply for special ceilings up to 2 per cent of total assets 
a s
 of the end of 1966, but only to meet prospective needs for priority 
credits originating in their own trade territories. 

10/19/67 
-11-
participating institutions that had moved up to the ceiling in their 
operations, and it could affect cooperation with the voluntary program 
adversely. 
Governor Robertson went on to say that if it were necessary to 
retreat to a fall-back position, he would suggest agreeing to retain 
the exemption for credits guaranteed or arranged by the Export-Import 
Bank or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Association, with no 
other changes in the proposed 1968 program. 
Governor Brimmer then presented statistics that he had obtained 
from the Export-Import Bank and interpreted from them the effect of the 
first alternative change in the 1968 program that Governor Robertson 
had suggested. 
Governor Brimmer also referred to a current study by 
the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial 
Policies of guidelines that would be applied to the aircraft financing 
program of the Export-Import Bank. 
The adoption of such guidelines 
would, in his opinion, lead to a substantial change in Export-Import 
Bank policy in a desirable direction. 
If they were adopted, he felt 
that the Federal Reserve would be more justified in withdrawing its 
Proposal that the exemption for credits guaranteed or arranged by the 
Export-Import Bank or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Associa-
tion be dropped from the voluntary program in entirety. 
Governor Brimmer then said that he supported the suggestion of 
Governor Robertson. He would favor presenting Governor Robertson's 

10/19/67 
-12-
first 
alternative to the Executive Committee of the Cabinet Committee 
on the Balance of Payments and falling back to the second alternative 
at the Cabinet Committee level only if necessary. 
t 
Governor Daane also said that he would support Governor 
Robertson's position. 
However, as he assessed views held elsewhere 
within the Government, an urging of the first alternative was likely 
to be unsuccessful. 
If it became necessary to retreat to the fall-back 
Position, he felt that there would be merit in reconsidering the 2 per 
cent feature and substituting 1-1/2 per cent. 
That would still benefit 
a considerable number of banks, but it would cut back substantially the 
amount of potential outflow. 
Governor Robertson noted that the additional leeway provided 
would have to be used entirely for priority credits, and Governor 
Brimmer commented that within the Executive Conmittee there was some 
feeling that all export credits and credits to less developed countries 
should be exempted from the purview of the voluntary program. 
It would 
seem inconsistent for those holding that view to object to the 2 per 
cent feature when the funds provided would have to be used for export 
credits or credits to developing countries. 
Governor Robertson empha-
sized that the purpose of the 2 per cent proposal was to eliminate 
existing inequities in the voluntary program. 
He summarized statistics 
Prepared by the Board's staff contrasting the effects of a 2 per cent 
Provision and a 1-1/2 per cent provision, and stated reasons why he 
had concluded that the 2 per cent allowance would be justified. 

10/19/67 
-13-
Governor Mitchell recalled that it had been indicated, when the 
voluntary program was instituted, that hopefully it would not remain in 
effect more than two years. 
The program, never popular, was now going 
into its fourth y e a r , and the banks had done more than their share in 
the way of cooperation. 
In his opinion, it would be appropriate to do 
whatever was feasible toward correcting inequities. 
Governor Daane responded that he did not disagree with the 
argument for correcting inequities or with the view that the banks had 
been asked thus far to carry the major burden of the voluntary restraint 
Program. 
Nevertheless, considerable sentiment had been expressed for 
a
 roll back in ceilings under the bank program on the ground that the 
Commerce Department program was being strengthened and an appearance 
°f liberalization of the bank program would be unfortunate. 
After further discussion Chairman Martin commented that he 
thought all of the members of the Board could agree on presenting 
Governor Robertson's first alternative to the Executive Committee, with 
the thought of falling back to the other alternative at the Cabinet Com-
mittee level only if necessary. 
British Bank rate. 
Members of the staff commented on the ini-
tial reaction of financial markets to the announcement of an increase 
in the British Bank rate from 5-1/2 to 6 per cent. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

4 < )26 
10/19/67 
-14-
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Chairman of the Committee on Sundry Operations of 
the Conference of Presidents advising that the Board had designated 
John R . Farrell of the Division of Bank Operations and Brenton C. 
Leavitt of the Division of Examinations to serve as associates of the 
ad hoc subcommittee to make a study of changes in district or branch 
boundar ies that might significantly improve the efficiency of opera-
tions or services of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Salary increases 
Aaron Dortch, Foreman-Operator, Division of Administrative Services, 
from $6,885 to $7,384 per annum, effective October 22, 1967. 
Bernard M . W e n n e m e r , Clearing A s s i s t a n t , Division of Data Processing, 
from $5,859 to $6,263 per annum, effective October 22, 1967. 
Prevail ing Rate Wage Schedule 
Revised Prevailing Rate Wage Schedule (copy attached as Item No. 7) 
a n
d increases in the annual salary rates of the following employees in 
the Division of Administrative Services under the schedule, effective 
October 22, 1967: 
N a m e a n d title 
Carlton C . Poling, Assistant Supervisor, 
Motor Transport Unit 
Willard D. Creasey, Chauffeur 
Herman C. Bounds, Chauffeur 
R
°ger M . Painter, Chauffeur 
B e
r t H a r v e y , Chauffeur 
Arthur S . M y e r s , Mechanical Foreman 
Hersey M . W o o d s , J r . , Elevator Mechanic-
Operating Engineer 
Gordon M . Davis, Sr., Carpenter-Operating 
Engineer 
John D. Holsey, Painter 
Bruce L . Rabbitt, Painter 
Annual salary rate 
From 
To 
$6,594 
$6,926 
6,053 
6,386 
5,762 
6,074 
6,053 
6,386 
5,470 
5,762 
9,235 
9,693 
7,384 
7,758 
7,384 
7,758 
7,114 
7,467 
7,114 
7,467 

10/19/67 
-15-
4027 
% VC ; 
. . . '.. 
Annual salary ra te 
Name and title 
From 
salary 
To 
Paul L . Tedrow, Operating Engineer 
$7,384 
$7 ,758 
William T . Houser, General Mechanic-
7,384 
7 ,758 
Operating Engineer 
P. D. M a d d o x , General Mechanic-Operating 
7,114 
7 ,467 
Engineer 
Henry Pratt, Jr., Refrigeration Mechanic-
7,758 
8 ,154 
Operating Engineer 
Carroll P . H i c k m a n , Supervisor-Inspector 
6,864 
7 ,218 
Saul Clanton, Gardener 
6,302 
6 ,656 
Henry Edmonds, Grounds Maintenance Worker 
5,762 
6 ,074 
Charlie H . W a r d , Foreman, Laborers and 
5,970 
6 ,261 
Gardeners 
Johnnie D. Jones, Jr., Window Washer 
4,326 
4 ,576 
On October 19, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 
i^Lthe Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
8 
a
PProving the appointment of Robert K . LaRocca 
a s
 assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
9 
approving the appointment of Douglas Stuart Wolfe 
a s
 assistant examiner. 
B y t h e Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to The Amalgamated Bank of New Y o r k , 
10 
New Y o r k , New Y o r k , approving the establish-
ment of a branch in Shopping Center No. 1, 
c
°-0p City, Borough of the Bronx. 

4 028 
10/19/67 
-16-
''J 
'i fr By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Nevada Bank of Commerce, R e n o , 
Nevada, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch at 
Liberty and South Virginia Streets. 
Item No. 
11 

1029 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
10/19/67 
A O D R E B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 19, 1967. 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New Y o r k , New Y o r k . 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
A s requested in your letter of September 5, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold either directly or through your wholly-owned subsidiaries, 
Bankers International (Luxembourg) S . A . or B . T . Australia P t y . L t d . , 
500,000 shares (12 per cent) of Power Corporation Australia Limited 
("PCA"), Sydney, A u s t r a l i a , at a cost of approximately US$1,120,000, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
In this connection, the Board also approves the purchase 
and holding of shares of PCA in excess of 10 per cent of your Corpora-
tion's capital and surplus. 
Ac';. * *
J 
„ .1-2 
l «.••)•)., 
I r.c-c. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of your Corporation and the Bankers Trust Company, 
will not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the 
guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly y o u r s , 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4 030 
Item No. 2 
10/19/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D» C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
^ E UNION A N D NEW HAVEN TRUST COMPANY
 
1 
£
or approval of merger with
 
1 
Tradesmens National Bank of Nev; Haven
 
1 
- 
- 
J 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF 
MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger A c t (12 U . S . C . 1828(c)), an application by The Union and Nev; 
Haven Trust Company, New H a v e n , Connecticut, a State member bank of the 
' F> 9 
federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of 
that bank and The Tradesmens National Bank of Nev; Iiaven, Nev; H a v e n , 
Connecticut, under the charter of the former and the title of The Union 
B a
n k and Trust Company. As an incident to the merger, the four offices 
o f
 Ihe Tradesmens National Bank of New Haven would become branches of the 
resulting b a n k . 
Notice of the proposed m e r g e r , in form approved by the 
B
°ard, has been published pursuant to said A c t . 
4 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of the 
A c t o r s set forth in said A c t , including reports furnished by the Comptroller 

4031 
- 2 -
°f the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the 
Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is denied. 
Dated at Washington, D . C . , this 19th day of October, 1967, 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Vice Chairman Robertson, 
and Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, 
and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman M a r t i n . 
(signed) 
Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1 o r r 2 
Item No. 3 
10/19/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
A P P L I C A T I O N BY THE U N I O N A N D N E W H A V E N TRUST C O M P A N Y 
FOR A P P R O V A L OF M E R G E R W I T H 
THE TRADESMENS N A T I O N A L B A N K OF 1JEU HAVEN 
STATEMENT 
The U n i o n and N e w Ilaven Trust C o m p a n y , N e w H a v e n , Connecticut 
("Union"), w i t h total deposits of about $104 m i l l i o n , has a p p l i e d , pursuant 
the B a n k M e r g e r A c t (12 U . S . C . 1 8 2 0 ( c ) ) , for the Board's prior approval 
the merger of that banlc w i t h The Tradesmens N a t i o n a l Bank of N e w H a v e n , 
New H a v e n , Connecticut ("Tradesmens"), which has total deposits of about 
m i l l i o n . ^ The banks would merge under the charter of U n i o n , w h i c h is 
a
 member of the Federal Reserve S y s t e m , and the name of the resulting b a n k 
l
>ould be changed to The Union Banlc and Trust C o m p a n y . A s an incident to 
m e r g e r , the four offices of Tradesmens w o u l d become branches of U n i o n , 
increasing the number of its offices to 1 5 . 
C o m p e t i t i o n . - U n i o n operates its head office and one branch in 
New H a v e n , two branches in the adjoining town of H a m d e n , and seven other 
R a n c h e s w i t h i n a radius of 30 miles of N e w H a v e n . 
Tradesmens operates 
i t :
s head office and two branches in N e w H a v e n , and one branch in H a m d e n . 
^ e head offices of the two banks are about 200 feet a p a r t . 
The two N e w 
I i a
v e n branches of Tradesmens a r e , r e s p e c t i v e l y , about one-fourth of one 
if Figures are as of J u n e 3 0 , 1 9 6 7 . 

/I P / 7'7 
Jr. < 11 > i j» 
-2-
®ile northeast, and one mile northwest of Union's lieu Haven branch; the 
branches of the tuo banks in Hamden are about one and three-tenths miles 
apart. 
It appears that there is considerable competition between the 
tuo banks and potential for the development of further competition between 
them. A l l of the banking services offered by Tradesmens are included in 
2/ 
the somewhat wider range of services offered by U n i o n . 
The service area 
Tradesmens consists of the combined New Haven and Hamden area and lies 
wholly within the service area of U n i o n . Union derives approximately 
^ 
per cent of its IPC deposits, and about 44 per cent of its loans, from 
the New Haven/Hamden a r e a . 
There are three other commercial banks headquartered in Hew 
H a
v e n , in addition to Union and Tradesmens. 
These five banks operate 
offices in N e w Haven and seven branches in H a m d e n . 
The only other 
commercial banking office in Hamden is the head office of the sole bank 
headquartered there. Under Connecticut law, a commercial bank may 
establish new branches in the town in which it is headquartered, and in 
°ther towns within the State where no other commercial bank is headquartered. 
T
h u s , outside banks are presently precluded from establishing de novo 
in either ilew Haven or H a m d e n . 
Union and Tradesmens hold about 10 per cent and 7 per c e n t , 
r e
s p e c t i v e l y , of the deposits held by the 26 commercial banking offices 
i n
 the New Haven/Hamden a r e a . Union is the third largest of the six banks 
d e r a t i n g offices in this a r e a . 
Following the m e r g e r , Union and the two 
a r e a 
f r 0 [ a uhich a bank obtains 75 per cent or more of its deposits 
o f
 individuals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC d e p o s i t s " ) . 

4 o r * 4 
-3-
largest banks would hold approximately 96 per cent of the commercial bank 
deposits in the Neu Haven/Hamden area; these three banks v/ould hold about 
per cent of the deposits held by the 43 offices of the 11 commercial 
hanks operating in the Neu Haven Metropolitan A r e a . 
The effect of the merger on competition v/ould be adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The banking 
Actors with respect to each of the banks proposing to merge are satis-
factory, as they would be with respect to the resulting b a n k . 
Tradesmens 
lacks depth in senior management, but the problem is not urgent and could 
resolved, it appears, by means other than the proposed merger. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - It does not appear 
that the bank resulting from the merger would serve any important need 
banking services that is not now being met with reasonable convenience 
Union and other banking offices in the Neu Haven/Hamden area. 
Further, 
proposed transaction would eliminate Tradesmens as a convenient alterna-
source of commercial banking services in the New Haven and Hamden 
i m m u n i t i e s . 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
Pr
°P°sed merger would have an adverse effect on banking competition, uith 
t n
s u f f i c i e n t 
0 f f s e t t i n g benefits under the banking factors and the convenience 
a n d
 needs factor. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should be 
d e
M e d . 
O c
t o b e r 19, 1967. 

40.'? 5 
Item N o . 4 
10/19/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
the Matter of the Application of 
EXCHANGE STATE BANK 
' 
i 
for approval of acquisition of assets of 
national Bank of Lanark 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK'S ASSETS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
B
*nk Merger A c t (12 U . S . C . 1828(c)), an application by Exchange State B a n k , 
Lanark, Illinois, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for 
^ e Board's prior approval of its acquisition of assets and assumption of 
^ p o s l t liabilities of The National Bank of Lanark, Lanark, Illinois, the 
s
ole office of which would be closed, Notice of the proposed acquisition 
°f assets and assumption of deposit liabilities, in form approved by the 
Board, has been published pursuant to said A c t . 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
^ e factors set forth in said A c t , including reports furnished by the 
S t r o l l e r of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed transaction, 

-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that said acquisition of assets and assumption of 
<t 
. 
deposit liabilities shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day follov/ing thre date of this Order or (b) later than three 
months after the date of this Order* 
Dated at Washington, D . C . , this 19th day of October, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman M a r t i n , 
and Governors Robertson, D a a n e , H a i s e l , 
and Brimmer. 
Absent «and not voting: 
Governors M i t c h e l l , 
and Sherrill. 
.(signed) eferritt Sherman 
; 
^ ^ : 
Herritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
, 
t
 
vf
 " C 
' 
v 
r 
(SEAL) 
• • 
T. 

Item No. 5 
10/19/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY EXCHANGE STATE BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF 
THE NATIONAL BANK OF LANARK 
STATEMENT 
Exchange State Bank, Lanark, Illinois ("Exchange Bank"), with 
total deposits of about $3.5 million, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1028(c)), for the Board's prior approval of its 
acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities of The National 
Bank of Lanark, Lanark, Illinois ("National Bank"), which has total deposits 
1/ 
of about $2 million. 
As an incident to the transaction, the single office 
°f National Bank would be closed. 
Competition. - Exchange Bank and National Bank operate single 
offices, one block apart, in the main business district of Lanark (popula-
tion about 1500), a predominantly agricultural community in northwestern 
Illinois. Each bank derives the preponderance of its business from an 
area within a radius of about eight miles of its office. Five other banks 
(with deposits ranging from $1 to $9 million), situated within eight to 
!2 miles of Lanark, compete in this area. Among these seven banks, 
Exchange Bank and National Bank rank fourth and sixth, respectively, in 
terms of deposits held; following the proposed acquisition, Exchange Bank 
would rank third, with approximately 18 per cent of the total deposits 
held by the remaining six banks. 
y 
Figures are as of June 30, 1967. 

2-
4 0 3 8 
National Bank has not been an aggressive competitor; its loans 
are equal to approximately 36 per cent of its deposits, compared to nearly 
70 per cent in the case of Exchange B a n k . National Bank's portfolio of 
U.S. Government securities equals about 58 per cent of its a s s e t s , com-
pared to about 13 per cent in the case of Exchange B a n k . National Bank 
has made no effort to modernize its services, and its physical plant is 
in a serious state of disrepair. 
Such considerations as the bank's size, 
the size of the community it serves, and the condition of its physical 
facility make it of dubious attractiveness to prospective buyers, generally. 
The fact that Illinois law prohibits branch banking makes the acquisition 
of National Bank unattractive for banks located outside Lanark; without a 
local office, an acquiring bank could not realistically expect to retain 
much, if a n y , of the business now generated by National B a n k . 
R e c e n t l y , two officers of Exchange Bank acquired a majority of 
the stock of National Bank; the prior controlling stockholders were con-
templating liquidation of the b a n k . 
If the proposed acquisition by 
Exchange Bank were not approved, it seems likely that business realities 
would lead the present owners of National Bank to liquidate the institu-
tion. 
If National Bank were liquidated, it is probable that the vast 
majority of its customers would continue to prefer the convenience of 
banking locally and would transfer their business to Exchange B a n k . 
I h u s , 
in terms of new business acquired by Exchange Bank, the ultimate conse-
quences of the proposed acquisition would not differ materially from 
those that would result from the outright liquidation of National B a n k . 
The proposed transaction would not have an adverse effect on 
hanking competition. 

-3-
4 
0 3 9 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects, - The banking 
factors with respect to Exchange Bank are reasonably satisfactory, as they 
would be following the proposed acquisition. National Bank's principal 
operating officers are nearing the normal age of retirement and there is 
no provision for successor managements 
Further, as indicated earlier, 
National Bank's physical plant is in a state of disrepair and its circum-
stances, in general, indicate that the bank would be liquidated outright if 
the proposed acquisition were not approved. 
The Lanark community has sup-
ported Exchange Bank and National Bank for many years, but both banks are 
small; combining their operations should result in a meaningful gain in 
operating efficiency for the acquiring b a n k , thereby enhancing its prospects. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The proposal would 
reduce the alternative sources of banking services in the Lanark community 
from two to one, b u t , for the reasons previously discussed, it appears that 
National Bank would be eliminated in any event. Combining the operations 
°f National Bank and Exchange Bank, as the proposal contemplates, would 
Probably result in a significant gain in operating efficiency which would 
benefit the consumers of banking services in the Lanark community. 
Summary and conclusions. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
Proposed transaction would benefit the banking convenience and needs of 
t
he Lanark community, and would not have an adverse effect on banking 
competition. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should be 
approved. 
October 19, 1967. 

< 1 0 4 0 
Item N o . 6 
10/19/67 
For Immediate release. 
October 2 0 , 1967. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today a number of proposals to broaden the coverage of and, 
in most respects, to tighten its regulations governing the use of 
credit in stock market transactions. 
In the m a i n , the proposals, on which the Board invited 
comment from interested persons by November 20, would: 
1. 
Impose the same margin requirements on loans made by 
banks for the purpose of purchasing or carrying convertible bonds or 
other securities convertible into registered stock as are now applied 
to registered stock. 
Loans by brokers and dealers on registered 
convertible securities are n o w , and would continue to b e , subject to 
margin requirements, but the requirements would be removed from loans 
they make on non-convertible bonds. 
In consequence, banks, brokers 
and dealers would be on substantially the same footing in these 
respects. 
2. 
Require that non-convertible bonds and exempted secur-
ities (e.g., Government securities) that are pledged for a loan be 
segregated in an account separate from the ordinary margin account in 
which only stock and convertible bonds may be held. 
The purpose of 
requiring separate accounts would be to foreclose use of the "same-
day-substitution" privilege to circumvent margin rules that require 
that a portion of the proceeds of a sale of a security held on margin 
be retained to reduce the debt on other securities remaining in the 
margin account. 

3. 
Require that collateral in special subscription 
accounts — that is, securities acquired by the exercise of subscription 
rights on the preferential 25 per cent initial margins presently 
allowed for such a c q u i s i t i o n s — b e brought into fully margined status 
by payments in four equal quarterly instalments. 
4 . 
Extend the period in which the creditor must obtain 
the customer's deposit on a margin transaction by one d a y , to five 
full business days after the transaction. 
The purpose of this 
liberalizing proposal is to reduce the current pressures on book-
keeping departments of brokerage firms by insuring that a weekend will 
always be included in the period of time within which the deposit must 
be obtained. 
The margin required is now 70 per cent, which means in 
effect that anyone buying a $100 stock on credit must deposit in his 
margin account at least $70 in cash, or securities with an equivalent 
loan v a l u e , within--presently--the next four full business days. 
5. 
Introduce a new regulation (designated "Regulation G " ) 
to extend to other lenders margin requirements corresponding to those 
long applicable to brokers, dealers, and commercial banks on loans they 
make for the purpose of purchasing or carrying stocks. 
The "other lenders" whose security loans would thus be put 
on a corresponding footing with those of banks and brokers would include 
the following: 
"factors" and others whose stock loans usually rise 
during periods w h e n both margin requirements and stock market activity 
are high; tax-exempt foundations, partnerships and corporations, credit 

-3-
4 042 
unions, savings banks, and savings and loan associations; and anyone 
acting as agent for a foreign lender in handling securities loans. 
At the same time, lenders other than banks — including 
business enterprises with idle f u n d s — w o u l d be forbidden to make 
loans to brokers and dealers except (1) on exempted securities or 
(2) to aid in the financing of sales of large blocks of securities 
off the exchanges. 
If the proposals are adopted, securities loans made after 
today's date will have to be brought into conformity with their 
requirements by 30 days after the date of adoption. 
Margin requirements were established initially in October, 
1934, under authority Congress granted the Federal Reserve Board in 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 "for the purpose of preventing 
the excessive use of credit for purchasing or carrying of securities." 
Under present law, margin requirements can be applied only 
to loans for the purpose of purchasing or carrying securities registered 
on a national securities exchange. 
The Reserve Board has, however, 
submitted a legislative proposal to Congress that would provide authority 
to apply margin regulations to other securities actively traded over the 
counter. 
Attached are the texts of the proposed amendments to the 
B o a r d
1
s margin regulations T (relating to extension of credit by brokers) 
and U (loans by banks), and of the proposed new Regulation G relating to 
securities credit extended by other lenders. 
-0-

BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4 0 4 
8 
METROPOLITAN D . C . RATE WAGE SCHEDULE* 
October 22, 1967 
Item N o . 7 
10/19/67 
This schedule applies to manual labor, semi-skilled and skilled, trade 
and craft positions in the Mechanical Force, and the Chauffeurs in the 
Motor Transport Unit of the Division of Administrative Services. 
Basic Hourly and Rounded Annual Wage Rates by Step and Grade 
Gradi 
Step 1 
Hourly. 
Annual 
Step 2 
Hourly 
Annual 
Step 3 
Hourly 
Annual 
1 
1 .62 
3370 
1 .71 
3557 
1 .80 
3744 
2 
1 .91 
3973 
2 .01 
4181 
2 .11 
4389 
3 
2 .20 
4576 
2 .32 
4826 
2.44 
5075 
4 
2.49 
5179 
2 .62 
5450 
2 .75 
5720 
5 
2 .77 
5762 
2 .92 
6074 
3 .07 
6386 
6 
2 .90 
6032 
3 .05 
6344 
3 .20 
6656 
7 
3 .01 
6261 
3 .17 
6594 
3 .33 
6926 
8 
3 .14 
6531 
3 .30 
6864 
3 .47 
7218 
9 
3 .25 
6760 
3 .42 
7114 
3 .59 
7467 
10 
3, .37 
7010 
3, .55 
7384 
3, .73 
7758 
11 
3, .54 
7363 
3, .73 
7758 
3, .92 
8154 
12 
3, .71 
7717 
3, .91 
8133 
4, .11. 
8549 
13 
3. .88 
8070 
4. .08 
8486 
4, .28 
8902 
14 
4, ,05 
8424 
4, ,26 
8861 
4, .47 
9298 
15 
4, ,22 
8778 
4. .44 
9235 
4, .66 
9693 
16 
4, ,39 
9131 
4. ,62 
9610 
4, .85 
10088 
17 
4. ,55 
9464 
4. ,79 
9963 
5, .03 
10462 
18 
4. ,72 
9818 
4. ,97 
10338 
5. .22 
10858 
19 
4 . 89 
10171 
5. ,15 
10712 
5. ,41 
11253 
20 
5. 06 
10525 
5. 33 
11086 
5. ,60 
11648 
21 
5. 23 
10878 
5. 50 
11440 
5. ,78 
12022 
Incumbents of positions subject to this wage schedule are eligible 
for step increases within particular grades on the following basis: 
For advancement to Step 2, after 26 weeks' (6 months) satisfactory 
service in Step 1. 
For advancement to Step 3, after 78 weeks' (18 months) satisfactory 
service in Step 2. 
*(This schedule supersedes the wage scale effective December 4 , 1966) 

BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
1044 
Item N o . 8 
10/19/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 20, 1967 
M r . Luther M . Hoyle, J r . , Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear M r . Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of October 16, 1967, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the appointment of Robert K . LaRocca as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointm'ent. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

401-5 
••Jo OfGOw-. 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20331 
Item No. 9 
10/19/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 20, 1967 
M r . Harry W . Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear M r . Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of October 18, 1967, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the appointment of Douglas Stuart Wolfe as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4046 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF N E W YORK 
Item No. 10 
10/19/67 
N E W Y O R K . N E W Y O R K 
1004* 
October 19, 1967 
• / . ^ n o t a 
2::ecutive Vice President 
•The A::al~azated 3anh of Eou York 
^Nrlp Union Cruc-L'c 
II ev Ycrh, ;«ov7 Yovl: 
10003 
Boar Ilr • J\~ncta: 
v.
r
o refer to your banh's 
rcKaostin^ pcr-
Gc»on to os ta jlish a branch efface -'a 
j center Ho• 1, 
P-Op City, wrc:.::, IJev Yorh. Afe-r revicvin.s the 
Li v. at:, on 
«- — 
QJU. w — v 
u. 
v.. 
_.. u v-s;^--— 
• v 
x - / \ a ) 
of \tho Sales ^ocardins Seloj./jion ef Authority is„acd by the 
2ca|;d of Governors Ox' the Federal Reserve Systcra, ve have coa-
clyded that year applicative should "bo approved. Accordingly, 
c^r behalf of the Hoard of Governors, the I'-lem! Preserve Bank 
cf IJoYorl:, acting under delc-aeed authority, approve3 the 
~ ^tablisha-nt by year banh of a branch office at the above-
ationed location, provided it is established vithin one year 
the data of this letter. 
Vj shall appreciate your aavisiaj us when the branch 
is actually established and opened for business, giving the 
effective date of opening, the nai:c, if any, by which it will 
be hno'jn, and the official postal address, includinc the zip 
Cyuc nuubcr. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by cicains 
and returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
Frod W. Piderit, Jr. 
Vico President 
•aclosuro 

Item N o . 11 
10/19/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
94190 
October 19, 1967 
Mr. Stuart B. Webb, Fresldent, 
Nevada Bank of Commerce, 
501 North Virginia Straat, 
Reno, Nevada 89505. 
Dear Mr. Webb: 
Reference la made to your lettecdated Octobe^4(7, 
1967, requesting a further extenalon otTyourNafproved appli-
cation to astabliah a branch offlce^on the northwest corner 
of Liberty and South Virginia Streets, Reno, Njevade. 
At the time the Board approved the six months' 
extension to October^K*7~t${>7, 
cutties had been eiicountercc 
for the building/ Although th\ 
been resolved, ypu advise that 
for some time. 
it wAeJrffdicated that diffi-
th selecting an architect 
it problem had presumably 
onstruetion will not begin 
On behall of the Bc^ard of Governors of the Federal 
sserve System, actlfeg^under delegated authority, this Bank 
approved an extension to April 20, 1968, of the time 
.thin which your bank may establish the proposed branch, 
lis extension, is being granted with the understendlng that 
bank v l ^ e l t h e r proceed by that date or withdraw its 
Very truly yours, 
(SIGNED) ELIOT J. SWAM 
.Xliat J. Swsn, 
President. 
