MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 15, 1969 

1301 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 15, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Olin of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
were present for portions of the meeting. 

4/15/69 
-2-
Reconsideration of report. The Board approved unanimously 
a letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (copy attached 
as Item No. 1) reflecting reconsideration of a report previously rendered 
with respect to the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of The Union and New Haven Trust Company, New Haven, Connecticut, into 
The Fairfield County Trust Company, Stamford, Connecticut. 
Reorganization plans. After considering possible changes in 
the organization of the Federal Government that might be recommended 
for accomplishment under a Presidential reorganization plan, as mentioned 
in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated April 14, 1969, the Board 
approved transmittal to the Bureau of the Budget of a letter in the 
form attached as Item No. 2. 
Bankers Trust. An application by Bankers Trust New York Corpo-
ration, New York, New York, for permission to acquire shares of Peoples 
Bank of Long Island, National Association, Patchogue, New York, a 
proposed new bank into which would be merged Peoples National Bank of 
Long Island, Patchogue, New York, was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that an order and statement reflecting the decision 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Waiver of requirement. The Board approved the sending of a 
letter to the Department of State (copy attached as Item No. 3) 
supporting a request for waiver of the two-year "foreign residence 

13(3 
4/15/69 
-3-
abroad" requirement under section 212(e) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act for a certain foreign national and his wife. 
Consumer education. 
In a memorandum dated April 7, 1969, 
Mr. Olin presented a suggested program aimed at improving the 
information available to consumers with respect to the truth in 
• s 
lending legislation. The program envisaged was in essence along 
the following lines: 
A . Continued rendering of assistance to selected 
publications and to groups reaching consumers 
(such as the National Foundation for Consumer 
Credit) in the development of suitable 
literature. 
B . 
Preparation of a film strip for consumers, along 
with a basic education kit, for use by groups 
such as women's clubs, schools, and service 
organizations. 
C. 
Preparation of radio spot announcements aimed 
at consumers and adaptation of portions of 
the proposed consumer film strip for spot 
announcements on television. The cooperation 
of the Advertising Council in obtaining free 
broadcast time would be sought. 
The memorandum indicated that if B or C were approved in principle, 
definite proposals would be developed and submitted to the Board for 
approval„ 
The cost of the consumer film strip was estimated at 
approximately $15,000, and it was estimated that an additional $5,000 
would be required for development of radio and television spot 
announcements from such material. 

1304 
4/15/69 
-8-
At this meeting Mr. Olin indicated that the cost of preparing 
the film strip and associated materials was probably understated in 
the memorandum and might be likely to run more nearly in the neighborhood 
of $25,000. 
After discussion the staff was authorized to continue to extend 
cooperation along the lines envisaged in A; a program of the kind 
contemplated in B was approved in principle; and the Board withheld 
authorization for a program such as outlined in C of the memorandum. 
Policy on unionization and collective bargaining. 
Under 
date of April 3, 1969, Judge Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., had submitted 
a third draft of a proposed policy on unionization and collective 
bargaining within the Federal Reserve System, and his draft had formed 
the basis of discussion at a meeting yesterday of the Board with the 
Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
(Note: 
That 
dis cussion has been recorded fully in the minutes of the joint meeting.) 
The main points raised yesterday were now summarized for the 
benefit of Board members who had been unable to attend the joint meeting, 
reference being made particularly to suggestions by the Presidents for 
changes in the proposed policy, including the insertion of a preamble 
and elimination of Reserve Bank Presidents from the proposed Federal 
Reserve System Labor Relations Panel. 
After discussion the proposed policy was approved in principle 
in a form taking into account the recommendations of the Conference of 

13 05 
4/15/69 
-5-
Presidents, the approval in principle being given in preference to 
final action in order to allow the Presidents to discuss the proposed 
policy with their respective Boards of Directors and to permit another 
meeting with the Presidents, if that seemed advisable, on Tuesday, 
April 29. 
The Board authorized Governor Sherrill to work with appropriate 
members of the staff in considering the advisability of developing a 
similar policy that would be applicable to employees of the Board of 
Governors and, for that purpose, authorized the continued availability 
of Judge Pierce's services. 
Testimony on holding company legislation. There had been made 
available a draft testimony on proposed one-bank holding company 
legislation to be presented by Chairman Martin on Friday, April 18, 
before the House Banking and Currency Committee. The testimony, which 
focused primarily on H.R. 6778, the bill introduced by Congressman 
Patman, and H.R. 9385, commonly referred to as the Administration bill, 
was intended to be consistent with the statement of principles on 
amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act adopted by the Board on 
February 20, 1969. 
Upon detailed examination of the proposed testimony, members of 
the Board raised a variety of questions for consideration and suggested 
a number of modifications in the statement. Except as noted hereinafter, 
however, there appeared to be no fundamental disagreements with the 

1306 
4/15/69 
-8-
positions set forth, and it seemed that the testimony could be reworked 
through editing and redrafting, in such a manner as to satisfy the 
points that had been rasied. On the other hand, the indicated redrafting 
was extensive enough to cause the Chairman to suggest that another draft 
be prepared for final review by the Board, and it was agreed that that 
would be done. 
Governor Robertson, who had not joined in the statement of 
principles adopted earlier and had attached a separate statement in 
explanation of his position, was to testify on his own behalf on the 
proposed one-bank holding company legislation. He outlined the nature 
of the principal points he intended to cover in his prepared statement, 
which he said would be mildly worded and relatively brief. 
Governor Brimmer disagreed with the testimony to be presented by 
Chairman Martin in one respect only. As brought out in the comment he 
had attached to the statement of principles, he believed it was essential 
that responsibility for the administration of bank holding company legis-
lation be vested in a single agency and that dispersal of such authority 
among the bank supervisory agencies was not a viable alternative. 
Consid-
eration was given to how Governor Brimmer's difference of position on 
that one issue might appropriately be made known and certain suggestions 
were made, including a suggestion that his position be established in 
Governor Robertson's testimony. However, Governor Brimmer indicated 
that he would like to give further thought to the matter. 

8 
4/15/69 
-8-
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Johnson, and Kakalec withdrew at this point. 
Planning and management. Consideration was given to a memorandum 
of April 9, 1969, in which Governor Sherrill expressed the view that the 
time was at hand to introduce systematic procedures to promote more 
effective planning and management of staff resources. The principal 
action he proposed was the establishment of several interdivisional 
committees composed of Board officers, each with the assignment of 
suggesting means of applying modern management techniques to its 
designated area of responsibility. The program, he pointed out, would 
be experimental and subject to modification in the light of experience. 
The membership of each of the proposed committees would consist primarily 
of upper-level staff members, with more junior staff members included 
in supporting roles, but it was his intention to chair one or two of 
the key committees himself. 
Governor Sherrill recommended approval of the staff management 
committee structure outlined in the memorandum, with delegation to him 
of authority to establish the proposed committees and appoint members 
thereof. He made known that he would undertake to report to the Board 
regularly on the progress of the program. 
The four major staff committees listed by Governor Sherrill were 
the following: 

1308 
4/15/69 
-8-
Advanced Planning Committee 
Program Planning and Budgeting Committee 
Management Information Committee 
Management Controls Committee 
Governor Sherrill also proposed the establishment from time to 
time of specialized or ad hoc staff committees to deal with particular 
problems. One such group, the Management Development Committee, had 
already been approved by the Board, and he now suggested creation of 
the following two temporary committees: 
Ad Hoc Operations Review Committee 
Ad Hoc Committee on Publication Costs 
After a discussion during which Board members emphasized that 
the experimental and flexible nature of the program should be borne 
in mind, the recommendations submitted by Governor Sherrill were 
approved unanimously, with delegation to him of the authority he had 
requested. 
Staff appointment. Harry J. Halley was appointed as Assistant 
Controller, a new officer position in the Office of the Controller, 
with annual salary at the rate of $23,000, effective the date of 
assuming his duties. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1309 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
4/33/69 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2055! 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 15, 1969 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 26, 1969, the 
Board has considered the additional information developed in 
connection with the proposed merger of The Fairfield County 
Trust Company, Stamford, Connecticut, and The Union and New Haven 
Trust Company, New Haven, Connecticut, and has concluded that 
the additional information did not justify a change in its 
conclusion as submitted to you in its competitive report on 
November 15, 1968. 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

1310 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Q F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, • . C. 2 D 5 5 1 
Item No. 2 
4/15/69 
OFFICE DF THE CHAIRMAN 
April 17, 1969 
Mr. Robert P. Mayo, Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Bob: 
This is in response to your letter of March 14, 1969, 
inviting the Board to recommend any proposed changes in the 
organization of the Government that it believes are necessary 
and can properly be accomplished under the Executive Reorgani-
zation provisions of Title 5 of the United States Code. 
The Board has no such recommendations to make at this 
time. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Bill 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

1311 
„ _ _ 
, _ „ „ 
Item No. 3 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
4/15/69 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 16, 1969 
Department of State, 
Bureau of Educational and 
Cultural Affairs, 
2201 C Street, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 
20520 
Attention: Mr. John A. Anderegg, Chief. 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to a letter dated October 31, 1968, to 
you from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York concerning a 
request for a waiver of the two-year "foreign residence abroad" 
requirement under Section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act for Mr. Mohammed Sadik Eid and his wife. Mr. Eid is employed 
by the Chemical Bank New York Trust Company and is developing a 
mathematical check sorting model which, we were told, would re-
sult in a more expeditious check collection system. The Chemical 
Bank has indicated that its research and solutions will be avail-
able to the Federal Reserve System and the banking industry as a 
whole. In addition to the obvious benefits from an improved 
payments mechanism, the model, if successful, may also result in 
some reduction in float which is a form of credit resulting from 
the imperfect synchronization of debit and credit entries in the 
check collection process. The development of the model may also 
lead to a reduction in the volume of checks currently being pro-
cessed by the Federal Reserve System. 
In light of the above benefits and the possibility that 
work on the model will be substantially delayed if Mr. Eid is unable 
to complete his assignment, the Board of Governors believes that it 
would be consistent with the public interest for the Secretary of 
State to recommend, and for the Attorney General to find, that the 
two-year "foreign residence abroad" requirement be waived in the 
case of Mr. and Mrs. Eid. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
