Minutes for January 23, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

221 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 23, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' Offices 
Messrs. Forrestal and Shuter and Miss Hart of the 
Legal Division 
Mr. Keir, Chief, Capital Markets Section, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring, Technical Assistant, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Goodfellow, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 

1/23/67 
-2-
Morgan Guaranty International Banking Corporation (Item No, 1). 
On December 16, 1966, the Board granted consent to the purchase by 
Morgan Guaranty International Banking Corporation, New York, New York, 
of 51 per cent of the capital stock of Banca Vonwiller S.p.A., Milan, 
Italy, at a cost of approximately $7.3 million, subject to certain 
conditions normally attached to acquisition by Edge corporations of a 
controlling interest in foreign institutions. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated January 17, 
1967, from the Division of Examinations regarding a request from Morgan 
Guaranty, by letter dated January 6, 1967, for modification of the 
condition that would require the corporation to carry its investment 
in Banca on its books at a value no greater than its proportionate 
share of the net asset value of Banca. Compliance with this condition 
would require that a premium of between $3.3 and $4.1 million be written 
off immediately, with resultant absorption of the corporation's undivided 
profits and impairment of capital. To avoid such a write-off the corpo-
ration requested permission to carry its investment in Banca at cost or 
alternatively to amortize over a period of 20 years the excess of pur-
chase price over proportionate share of net worth. 
Mr. Dahl pointed out that Morgan Guaranty's request raised 
related questions that would affect other Edge corporations. One was 
whether the condition should be included in letters of consent in any 
instance; another had to do with the appraisal of stock investments on 
the books of the corporations. These were among a number of unresolved 

240 
1/23/67 
-3-
issues that were being given consideration in connection with the cur-
rent research project on foreign operations of U.S. banks. The report 
would contain a general discussion of those problems, but completion 
of the report was not imminent and an early decision on the Morgan 
Guaranty request was desired. 
The condition at issue, Mr. Dahl continued, was an extension of 
a Board policy in effect since the early 1930's relating to bank holding 
companies to the effect that investments in subsidiaries should be 
carried in financial statements issued to shareholders and the public 
at no more than net asset value. Reaffirmation of this policy had been 
requested by the Division of Examinations in a memorandum dated 
December 12, 1966, and the subject was discussed at the Board meeting 
on December 15. However, definitive action on the policy question was 
deferred pending further study by the staff. 
With respect to Edge corporations, the policy did not appear to 
have been applied in a completely uniform manner. The distributed memo-
randum included a historical summary of its use, as well as a statement 
°f certain mitigating circumstances that might warrant relief for Morgan. 
Messrs. Dahl and Goodfellow believed the proposal that the investment 
m Banca be carried at cost and the premium amortized over a period of 
20 years was a reasonable one. Should such relief be granted, Mr. Dahl 
recommended that the matter be subject to continuing observation and 
review, and that the applicant be apprised of the fact that since a 

1/23/67 
-4-
final determination as to a uniform policy had not been made, the Board 
reserved the right to make any necessary modifications in light of the 
general policy determination. Attached to the memorandum was a draft 
of letter to the applicant that would implement this recommendation. 
Mr. Dahl noted that there were differences of opinion within 
the Division of Examinations as to whether relief should be granted in 
this case. Director Solomon was concerned that if Edge corporations 
were permitted to carry controlling interests in foreign banks at 
figures in excess of net asset value, that might be construed as a 
precedent for similar treatment in bank holding company cases. Accord-
ingly, Mr. Solomon would deny the current request. Should the Board 
see fit to grant relief, Mr. Solomon hoped it would be with the under-
standing that subsequent imposition of a net asset value requirement 
would not be precluded. 
Mr. Dahl added that while he appreciated Mr. Solomon's point 
of view, he questioned whether it followed that the same rule should 
necessarily be applied to both Edge corporations and bank holding com-
panies. Should the latter be allowed to book investments in subsidiaries 
at cost, there were substantial possibilities for inclusion of intangi-
bles and unsupported assets; however, the amount a bank was permitted 
to invest in an Edge corporation was limited by statute. 
Mr. Leavitt stated that he supported Mr. Solomon's position and 
that their concern focused on the broad policy implications involved. 

240 
1/23/67 
-5-
He was not certain that it was possible to separate the domestic opera-
tions of a bank from its foreign subsidiary operations; unless that was 
possible, it would be reasonable for bank holding companies to ask for 
relief from the position that such companies carry investments at no 
more than net asset value. He believed a study should be made for the 
purpose of determining (1) accounting practices appropriate for both 
bank holding companies and Edge corporations and (2) the feasibility 
of differentiating between foreign and domestic operations. If the 
Board granted relief in this case, he thought it would be difficult 
for the Board to reverse its position should subsequent study substan-
tiate a contrary policy. 
After further staff comments, Governor Shepardson said it seemed 
to him there might be a justifiable distinction between domestic and 
foreign operations on the basis of the limited investment permitted by 
law in the latter case. He also noted that banks and other corporations 
tended to write down certain assets, such as real estate, quite fast, 
so that the actual values might be much greater than shown on the books 
at any given time. Notwithstanding the difficulty that might be in-
volved in reversing a decision to grant relief to Morgan Guaranty, he 
saw some justification in accepting the compromise proposal. In his 
view the Board probably would be foreclosed from a complete reversal 
if it allowed Morgan Guaranty to go ahead on the compromise basis. 
However, further study might indicate the desirability of a change in 

240 
1/23/67 
-6-
the guidelines for the future. It appeared to him that the compromise 
proposal could be adopted without undue hazard, but he would expect the 
Board to proceed expeditiously with such further study as seemed called 
for, with a view to arriving at a fundamental policy determination for 
the future. 
Governor Maisel also said that he would favor the compromise 
proposal. He recalled that in the previous discussion relating to the 
values at which bank holding companies should be permitted to carry 
investments in subsidiaries there was some feeling that the Board was 
unduly concerned about regulatory aspects and may have overlooked the 
interests of stockholders and others so far as the method of reporting 
was concerned. In the present circumstances, and pending further study, 
he would be prepared to go along with advising Morgan Guaranty along 
the lines recommended by the draft letter. 
Governor Brimmer, on the other hand, stated that he would not 
want to go along with the staff recommendation. The Board was being 
asked to modify a condition that had been imposed in similar cases 
simply because an Edge corporation found the condition onerous. Morgan 
Guaranty Trust Company could afford to put up additional capital, if 
required, and he would be reluctant to have the Board modify the condi-
tion until it had made a further study of the general question. Should 
the requested relief be granted, he did not think that the Board could 
appropriately reverse itself a short time later, so he would prefer not 

227 
1/23/61 
-7-
to grant the relief at this time. He would proceed with the study 
recommended by the staff in order to arrive at a general policy posi-
tion, which he would hope could be determined expeditiously. 
Governor Brimmer also suggested that any other Edge corporation 
preparing to make a similar investment should be informed of the condi-
tion, and Mr. Leavitt commented that it was not a condition known to 
the general public. Presumably only those corporations upon whom such 
a condition had been imposed would know about it, although there may 
have been some discussion within the banking fraternity. 
Governor Brimmer noted that other corporations confronted with 
such a condition apparently had adhered to it, and Mr. Dahl replied that 
in one case involving a substantial minority interest the condition had 
been modified, as mentioned in the distributed memorandum. In some 
cases there had not been as large a premium involved, and in some cases 
the Edge corporations concerned had been operating a sufficiently long 
time to have accumulated earned surplus against which the premium could 
be charged. Governor Brimmer repeated that he would nevertheless be 
reluctant to have the Board follow the staff recommendation. 
Governor Robertson said he did not see any fundamental differ-
ence between domestic and foreign operations and expressed the view 
that whatever rule was applied for domestic investments should also be 
applied when foreign banks were acquired by Edge corporations. However, 
a unique feature in this particular case was that the Edge corporation 

240 
1/23/67 
-8-
had limited capital funds. He disagreed with the comments that had 
been made about the difficulty of reversing a decision to grant some 
relief. The proposal was to put Morgan Guaranty on notice that if the 
Board decided to adhere to the policy it had followed for many years, a 
reversal of the decision to grant relief might be expected later. The 
staff thus had set up the proposal on a basis whereby a current deci-
sion could be reversed. As matters stood, the policy that investments 
must be carried at not in excess of net asset value had been questioned. 
He would suggest that the staff, in the course of its further study, 
call in the several consulting groups that had been used before in con-
nection with Regulation F and other accounting matters so as to have 
the benefit of their views. Then the Board could come to a conclusion 
regarding a uniform policy that would apply to both domestic and foreign 
investments. At present, he was not convinced that the Board's long-
standing policy was correct, and pending a final determination he did 
not feel that it would be appropriate to require adherence to a ques-
tioned ruling. Any other cases that might arise prior to the time when 
the Board reached a final decision should be handled on this same basis. 
Asked by Governor Brimmer whether he was in effect recommending 
a general suspension of the requirement, Governor Robertson said that 
from this point on, until a final decision was made, he would notify 
Edge corporations that the Board's position was under study and might 
be reversed. He would suspend the requirement, subject to review.. 

240 
1/23/67 
-9-
Governor Brimmer then said that if the Board favored such a 
suggestion he would change his position on the Morgan Guaranty case. 
His primary concern had been about the matter of discrimination. 
Governor Maisel inquired about bank holding companies, and Mr. 
O'Connell noted that the Board had in effect continued in force the 
existing policy pending further staff study. Governor Maisel observed 
that one bank holding company apparently was issuing reports on a dif-
ferent basis, to which he added that he would not be inclined to demand 
a change at this juncture. 
Chairman Martin noted the disagreement within the Board's staff 
and said he leaned somewhat toward adhering to the Board's outstanding 
position and turning down the request for relief. The Board could 
notify Morgan Guaranty that it was making a study and that later there 
might possibly be some relaxation. The problem was unusually compli-
cated and difficult, but he doubted whether it was sufficiently serious 
from the standpoint of Morgan Guaranty to warrant a deviation from 
general Board policy. Governor Robertson had made a suggestion that 
the Board approve the compromise proposal but make clear to Morgan 
Guaranty that the Board might reverse its position later. He (Chairman 
Martin) felt that such an approach would be a little more difficult, but 
it was a matter of judgment. 
There followed a general discussion during which Mr. Sidman 
commented at some length on accounting principles involved. Mr. Hexter 

2 4 0 
1/23/67 
-10-
pointed out that the Board had adopted a general position that presently 
applied to organizations similarly situated to the organization request-
ing relief. It seemed reasonable to him that the Board should adhere to 
its outstanding position until such time as it might want to make some 
change and that Morgan not be granted relief solely because it had 
requested such relief. To reverse now, subject to a final Board deci-
sion, would seem to him less reasonable. 
Chairman Martin said he thought the position stated by Mr. 
Hexter had merit, although the staff study should of course be expedited. 
In his view, the best course would be to indicate that the study was 
being made but that in the meantime the Board would abide by its present 
policy. 
The Chairman inquired what difficulties would be foreseen for 
Morgan Guaranty if such a course were followed, and Messrs. Sidman and 
Dahl outlined the accounting procedures that they understood Morgan 
Guaranty might be required to adopt. 
Chairman Martin thereafter suggested deciding today to adhere 
to the Board's outstanding position, but with an indication to Morgan 
Guaranty that the Board was proceeding to make a study, thus leaving it 
up to Morgan Guaranty to decide exactly how to proceed. 
Governor Shepardson inquired about the time that might be needed 
for the further study, and Mr. Dahl said the question under discussion 
Was one of those involved in the general study of the foreign operations 

2:ti 
1/23/67 
-11-
of U.S. banks. It had been his intention that, upon completion of the 
general study, this would be one of the first things to be taken up. 
He could immediately ask the staff of the New York Reserve Bank to begin 
formulating its views on the issue, with the thought of making a paper 
available for the Board's consideration by about June. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the suggestion on procedure that 
had been made by Governor Robertson, and the latter said it had been 
his thought that a group could be set up within the Board's staff to 
come to grips specifically with the problem of how investments by Edge 
corporations and by bank holding companies should be carried. The com-
mittee could bring in additional staff for assistance in the study, 
which he hoped could be completed fairly quickly, and also seek the 
advice of knowledgeable outside parties such as he had mentioned earlier. 
There was general agreement that it would be appropriate to pro-
ceed along those lines. 
It was then agreed unanimously to deny Morgan Guaranty's request, 
with the understanding that the procedure suggested by Governor Robertson 
would be followed in the interest of expediting a policy decision. A 
copy of the letter subsequently transmitted to Morgan Guaranty Interna-
tional Banking Corporation is attached as Item No. 1. 
Messrs. Sammons, Sidman, Forrestal, and Goodfellow withdrew from 
the meeting at this point. 
Coordination of data processing activities under Public Law 89-306. 
The Brooks Act (Public Law 89-306) relating to the acquisition and 

2H2 
1/23/67 
-12-
utilization of automatic data processing equipment by Federal agencies 
and departments became effective October 30, 1965. The general purpose 
of the law was to achieve coordinated management of automatic data 
processing on a Government-wide basis, with extensive authority vested 
in the Administrator of General Services Administration. The law con-
tained requirements relating to annual reporting of equipment inventory, 
utilization, and acquisition in conjunction with submission of budget 
estimates to the Bureau of the Budget and to the Congress, establishment 
of a fund for purposes of carrying out the objectives of the Act, and 
creation of scientific and technical advisory services in the interest 
of uniform standards. 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated January 13, 1967, 
from the Division of Data Processing and the Legal Division presenting 
for consideration the question of Board posture with respect to the 
activities contemplated by the Act. Of immediate concern was the fact 
that the Bureau of the Budget would institute, effective January 31, 
1967, a management information system, some of the purposes of which 
would be to establish and maintain a perpetual inventory of electronic 
data processing equipment and facilitate improved management of relevant 
activities, including the establishment of a central data bank. Both 
the Division of Data Processing and the Legal Division foresaw diffi-
culties in Board participation, and the recommendation, as set forth in 
the memorandum, was that the Board adopt a passive stand with respect to 

240 
1/23/67 
-13-
current and future requirements under the Brooks Act. In particular, 
the Divisions advised against participation in any form of reporting 
under the management information system. 
Mr. Byrne noted that the Board had been reporting to the Bureau 
of the Budget on a limited basis for several years, essentially concern-
ing its inventory of data processing equipment. He then turned to the 
Brooks Act and summarized its principal provisions, with particular 
reference to the wide scope of the activities described in the legisla-
tion. He next referred to the Budget Bureau's management information 
system and read excerpts from material describing its purposes and scope. 
He indicated that strong resistance reportedly was being encountered 
from various agencies of the Government and pointed out that the report-
ing requirements under the management information system were so detailed 
that compliance with them would require a heavy assignment of manpower. 
In concluding his remarks, he restated the recommendation that the Board 
adopt a passive stand in regard to requirements under the Brooks Act and 
that it not participate in any reporting under the management information 
system. 
Mr. O'Connell concurred in the recommendations. He pointed out 
that the application of the statute to the Board's data processing func-
tions would involve the Board in a rather massive effort on the part of 
the Government to centralize control of many aspects of such operations. 
He noted that the provisions of the legislation were geared closely to 

2'M 
1/23/67 
-14-
the appropriations process and that the fund provided for in the Act 
was linked to appropriations. Therefore the Board would appear to be 
excluded, at least in a technical sense, because it did not operate on 
appropriated funds. He thought it would be unfortunate to take any 
single step that might commit the Board so far as the application of 
the entire statute was concerned. His conclusion, from a legal point 
of view, was that the Board was not required to comply with the provi-
sions of the statute, and observance of the reporting procedures would 
give an appearance of compliance. 
Chairman Martin asked for a definition of "passive stand," and 
Mr. Byrne said it was intended to constitute a recommendation that the 
Board not report under the management information system and not call 
particular attention to that fact. 
Governor Brimmer expressed reservations. Although he agreed 
that the Board should not participate on the management side because it 
was not involved in the appropriations process and that it should not 
subject its operations to surveillance by General Services Administra-
tion, he doubted that the Board should simply fail to answer its mail. 
He inquired whether there was not some way to take note of the reporting 
process, at least to the extent of keeping the Budget Bureau informed as 
to what the Board was doing in the data processing area. He had sug-
gested to Mr. Byrne prior to this meeting that there were other Govern-
ment agencies in somewhat the same situation as the Board, for example, 

1/23/67 
-15-
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of the Comp-
troller of the Currency, neither of which obtained funds through appro-
priations, and that it might be desirable to check with such agencies. 
If they had worked out some scheme for keeping General Services Admin-
istration and the Bureau of the Budget informed of their activities, 
whereas the Board had not, that would seem unfortunate. Perhaps the 
Board could file reports but let it be known that it did not consider 
itself a participant in the fund. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the Board clearly 
should decline to participate in the part of the program that involved 
centralized control over equipment and funds. In some other respects, 
however, it seemed that the Board might have a substantial interest in 
the activities contemplated by the legislation, for example, the estab-
lishment and use of the central data bank. 
Governor Shepardson commented that there seemed to be logic in 
what Governor Maisel had said. The problem was how far to open the gate. 
He recalled that over a period of time the Board had received numerous 
requests from the Budget Bureau for reports on various activities. On 
some occasions it had participated, either in full or in part; in other 
cases the requests had been considered inapplicable. However, the pro-
cedure seemed to be increasing, and he was not sure how far the Board 
should go. There would appear to be reason for some concern about 
taking the step of reporting under the management information system. 

2 8 6 
1/23/67 
-16-
However, the Board might seek information on an informal basis as to 
what other agencies were doing on certain matters, for instance, in 
regard to data banks, without proceeding to the stage of filing formal 
reports. 
Mr. Cardon mentioned that the House Government Operations 
Committee, which had handled the Brooks Act, last year issued a report 
on float that included a brief reference to the Brooks Act and a state-
ment that coordination with the automatic data processing activities of 
the Government as a whole would appear to offer benefits to the Federal 
Reserve System. In commenting on that report, the Board advised that 
it had cooperated with other Government agencies on a number of data 
processing matters and that it would continue the practice. The refer-
ence in the report seemed to imply that in the Committee's view the 
Board was covered by the Brooks Act, and the Board had not objected. 
Actually, when the Brooks Act was under consideration, some thought had 
been given to whether to seek an amendment to the Act. The prospect of 
obtaining such an amendment did not appear promising, and the decision 
was simply to assume that the Board was not covered. Perhaps that could 
still be assumed. However, if the Board wished to interpret the Act in 
that way, perhaps some step should be taken to inform the Committee, 
either through discussion with the Committee staff or by sending a letter. 
Chairman Martin commented that it would seem desirable for Mr. 
Cardon to talk to the Committee staff about the problem and report back. 

1/23/67 
-17-
Governor Robertson suggested the possibility of sending a 
letter to the Director of the Budget Bureau explaining that although 
the statute did not appear to be applicable to the Board, nevertheless 
the Board would want to cooperate in any reasonable way and would be 
glad to consult with regard to planning, reporting, or other features. 
Governor Brimmer said he hoped that Mr. Byrne, in any discus-
sions with the Budget Bureau, would pursue the matter far enough to be 
sure that the Board was not listed in the Bureau's records as having 
simply failed to report. Mr. Byrne expressed the view that it would be 
difficult to segregate the items on which the Board could reasonably 
report, and Governor Brimmer then suggested that it might be possible 
to have the Board stricken from the list of agencies from which the 
Budget Bureau expected reports. 
The discussion concluded with a suggestion by the Chairman that 
the matter be explored further in the light of today's meeting, with 
consideration given to what was actually involved in the recommendation 
for adoption of a "passive stand." 
Proposed amendment to Securities Exchange Act (Item No. 2). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated January 18, 1967, from 
the Legal Division relating to a proposed amendment to the Securities 
Exchange Act that would authorize the Board to subject over-the-counter 
securities to margin regulation. 
Section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 authorizes 
the Board to limit the credit that brokers and dealers may extend on 

2r*8 
1/23/67 
-18-
securities that are registered on a national securities exchange and to 
limit the credit that banks (and other lenders) may extend for the pur-
pose of purchasing or carrying equity securities that are so registered. 
However, with respect to securities that are not traded on exchanges but 
only over the counter, the Act forbids brokers and dealers, generally 
speaking, to extend any credit whatever and permits banks to extend 
credit without being subject to any governmentally-imposed margin require-
ments. In its 1964 and 1965 Annual Reports the Board urged enactment of 
legislation that would modify section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act to 
eliminate the difference in the status for credit purposes of securities 
traded on exchanges and securities traded over the counter. The Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission in its Special Study of Securities Markets, 
a 1963 report to the Congress, also recommended amendment of the 1934 
Act in those respects, pointing out that the growth of the over-the-
counter securities market made the problem increasingly important. 
Attached to the memorandum was a proposed statutory amendment 
that would authorize the Board to encompass over-the-counter securities 
within its credit regulations without directly affecting the present 
scheme of securities-market credit control. Upon enactment of the 
ainendment, Regulation T (Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members of 
National Securities Exchanges) and Regulation U (Loans by Banks for the 
Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks) would continue to 
°Perate as at present, but the Board would bring specified categories 

2.'*9 
1/23/67 
-19-
of over-the-counter securities under margin regulation when and as con-
sidered desirable. The staff documentation stated that although devel-
opment of regulations should proceed in the light of experience after 
enactment of legislation, it was contemplated that the most logical 
approach would be to apply requirements similar to those now in effect 
in Regulations T and U to some or all of the over-the-counter stocks 
that were registered under the 1964 Securities Acts Amendments and that 
were traded in sufficient volume to assure reliable pricing, reasonable 
liquidity, and substantial investor and dealer interest. 
The proposed amendment was initially submitted to the Board on 
June 14, 1966, but action was deferred with the understanding that the 
staff would obtain the current views of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission. Subsequent consultation revealed support by the Commission of 
the proposed amendment. Its suggestions were incorporated in a proposed 
letter, also attached to the distributed memorandum, that would forward 
the draft bill to the Chairmen of the Senate Banking and Currency Com-
mittee and the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, with a 
^commendation for its introduction and passage. 
After a discussion during which the members of the Board indi-
cated that they were satisfied with the staff recommendation, unanimous 
-g££roval was given to the sending, at the appropriate time, of the 
Proposed letters to the Chairmen of the Congressional Committees. A 
CoPy of the letter subsequently sent to the Chairman of the Senate 
Banking and Currency Committee is attached as Item No. 2. 

2 4 0 
1/23/67 
-20-
Pittsburgh Branch building addition (Item No. 3). A circulated 
memorandum dated January 11, 1967, from the Division of Bank Operations 
related to the proposal of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland that 
an additional vault and covered loading dock be constructed at the 
Pittsburgh Branch in an area adjoining the Branch building presently 
used as a parking lot. Upon completion, the roof of the proposed struc-
ture would provide parking facilities equal to those of the present 
parking lot. Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter that 
would interpose no objection to the Bank's proceeding with the prepara-
tion of final plans and specifications for construction of the proposed 
addition. 
Following summary comments by Mr. Daniels, unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland in the 
form attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance . 
Examination of Minneapol is Bank. Mr. Smith summarized informa-
tion disclosed through the examination of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis made by the Board's staff as of October 4, 1966, his comments 
being based principally on the report of examination and related memoranda 
that had been circulated to the Board. 
After discussion, it was agreed that there were no matters dis-
closed by the examination that appeared to warrant action on the part 
°f the Board. 

24.1 
1/23/67 
-21-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letters to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (copies attached as 
Items 4 and 5) approving the appointment of Samuel R. Hanford and Peter W. 
North as assistant examiners. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (copy attached as 
Item No. 6) approving the designation of Robert S. Koehler, Carl M. 
Henderson, Earl M. Jordan, and Richard J. Keen as special assistant 
examiners. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
January 19, 1967, requesting authorization to amend the contract with 
the Social Science Research Council approved by the Board on December 27, 
1965, for a research project on the linkages between monetary policy and 
aggregate demand, which amendment would add $29,500 to the $90,000 orig-
inally authorized for the project. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
January 19, 1967, requesting authorization to contract with the Social 
Science Research Council to continue research on the impact of monetary 
Policy at a cost of $10,000 for calendar year 1967. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointments 
Robert Lawrence as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $15,106, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Jean Chang as Statistical Clerk, Division of Data Processing, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $5,256, effective the date of entrance 
uPon duty. 
Constance Moss Johnson as Keypunch Supervisor, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,331, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 

242 
1/23/61 
-22-
Transfers 
Isaac V. Banks, Jr., from the position of Programmer to the posi-
tion of Analyst, Division of Data Processing, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $6,451, effective January 29, 1967. 
Garland R. Gaines, from the position of Mail Clerk in the Division 
of Administrative Services to the position of Electronic Accounting 
Machine Operator (Trainee) in the Division of Data Processing, with no 
change in basic annual salary at the rate of $5,133, effective February 6, 
Acceptance of resignation 
Walter W. Graves, Cafeteria Laborer, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business January 17, 1967. 
Governor Shepardson also approved today 
on behalf of the Board a request from 
Phyllis A. Field, Secretary in the Legal 
Division, for permission to engage in 
part-time secretarial work in connection 
with the handling of an estate. 
1967. 

2 4 3 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRS 
Item No. 1 
OF THE 
1/23/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
( 
TO THE BOARD 
January 24, 1967. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 6, 1967, 
regarding the Board's letter of December 16, 1966, granting consent 
for your Corporation ("MGIBC") to purchase and hold approximately 
510,000 shares of the capital stock of Banca Vonwiller, S.p.A., 
("Banca"), Milan, Italy, at a cost of approximately US$7,307,300, 
in which you requested relief from condition number three which 
read as follows: 
I 
"(3) That MGIBC shall not carry on its books the shares 
acquired of Banba at a net amount in excess of its 
proportionate share of the book capital accounts 
of Banca, after giving effect to the elimination 
of all known losses; . . .". 
The Board has given careful consideration to your applica-
tion for relief from the terms of this condition. At the present 
time, however, the Board has under review its existing policy with 
respect to this matter and the carrying values of shares held by 
bank holding companies and banks. The Board has hitherto taken the 
Position that investments of a bank holding company in subsidiaries 
should be carried in financial statements at no more than the 
company's interest in the net assets of its subsidiaries. In the 
circumstances, and pending completion of the aforementioned review 
which will include the valuation of shares held by Corporations 
°rganized and operating pursuant to Sections 25 and 25(a) of the 
federal Reserve Act, the Board does not believe it appropriate to 
depart from existing policy and hence to grant relief in this case. 
It is expected that the review of the general question will be 
completed at an early date and that the Corporations will be in-
formed of the Board's conclusions at that time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2 4 4 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 2 
1/23/67 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 1, 1967 
^ e Honorable John J. Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510. 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g) 
authorizes the Board of Governors to regulate (1) credit that brokers and 
dealers may extend on securities registered on an exchange, and (2) credit 
^at banks (and othei^ lenders) may extend for the purpose of purchasing 
°r carrying securities registered on an exchange. The Act, while pro-
hibit ing brokers and dealers from extending credit on securities traded 
on exchanges but "over the counter" ("OTC"), allows banks to lend 
Without restriction where the purpose is to buy or carry OTC securities. 
other words, while brokers and dealers are prohibited from lending 
at all on OTC securities, bank credit to buy such securities, and secured 
hereby, may be extended in uncontrolled amounts. The Board has favored 
^adjustment of the law so that actively-traded OTC securities could be 
Placed more nearly on the same basis, in this respect, as exchange-registered 
Securities (see, for example, the enclosed excerpt from the Annual Report 
•^Lijie Board of Governors for 1964). 
As reported in Chapter X of the Securities and Exchange 
^°nttnission's Special Study of the Securities Market, H.R. Doc. No. 95, 
8th Cong. (1963), the OTC market has in part developed sufficiently to 
^ake it unreasonable to continue the existing difference in the status, 
°r this purpose, of widely-held OTC securities and securities registered 
an exchange. In other words, trading in certain OTC securities has 
ecome a significant factor in the securities market, and their present 
^elusion from margin-regulation coverage represents a serious gap in the 
effectiveness of the Board's regulations in preventing excessive use of -
Credit to purchase and carry securities. 

The Honorable John J. Sparkman 
-2-
245 
The statutory amendments embodied in the enclosed draft bill 
would not directly affect the present scheme of securities market credit 
controls; they would simply authorize the Federal Reserve Board to encom-
pass OTC securities within the Federal security-credit regulations. If 
the proposed bill were enacted, present regulations would continue to 
°Perate as they do now, and the Board could proceed in an orderly way 
to bring specified categories of OTC securities under margin require-
ments to the extent that appears to be appropriate and feasible. 
The majority of OTC securities are not actively traded and, 
therefore, are not suitable for margin regulation. At present, of the 
securities traded over the counter price quotations are disseminated 
to the public for about 1200 issues. Even within this group, many issues 
not have the depth of market, public information, or the investor 
interest requisite to permit trading in a margin account. Accordingly, 
lf this legislation is adopted, the Board presently contemplates issuance 
°f regulations that would apply only to those securities that (1) are 
subject to public disclosure requirements under the 1964 Securities Acts 
Amendments, and (2) are traded in sufficient volume to assure reliable 
Pricing, reasonable liquidity, and substantial investor and dealer interest. 
Of course, development of specific objective tests to ascertain 
^hich OTC securities meet these standards is one of several problems that 
w°uld be encountered in the exercise of this new authority. Those problems, 
fche Board believes, could best be handled by regulation, after publication 
Proposed regulations would elicit the views and criticism of the invest-
public and the securities industry. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission has reviewed this proposal 
^ supports it. The Commission believes that the regulations should be 
^mited, at least initially, to OTC stocks which meet whatever criteria 
y be established, such as those set out above, and that dealers who 
lntain inventories and make markets in a particular security should be 
,,stricted in their ability to sell such securities on margin because of 
e conflicts of interest inherent in such situations. The Commission 
offered to aid in the development of appropriate regulations. 
has 
of 
The Board recommends the introduction and favorable consideration 
the enclosed draft bill. Also enclosed is a markup of the present 
ute, indicating the proposed changes in existing law. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
E n clo S u r e s 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

246 
DRAFT 
A 
B I L L 
To amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to permit 
regulation of the amount of credit that may be extended and maintained 
with respect to securities that are not registered on a national 
securities exchange. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 7 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g) is amended -
(1) By striking "registered on a national securities exchange" 
in subsection <(a). 
(2) By modifying subsection (c) to read as follows: 
"(c) It shall be unlawful for any member of a national 
securities exchange or any broker or dealer, directly dt inditectly 
to extend or maintain credit or arrange for the extensibn or maintenance 
of credit to or for any customer -
"(1) On any security (other than an exempted security), 
in contravention of the rules and regulations which the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System shall prescribe under subsections (a) 
and (b) of this section. 
"(2) Without collateral or on any collateral other than 
securities, except in accordance with such rules and regulations as 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may prescribe 

24:7 
-2-
(A) to permit under specified conditions and for a limited period any 
such member, broker, or dealer to maintain a credit initially extended 
in conformity with the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, and (B) to permit the extension or 
maintenance of credit in cases where the extension or maintenance of 
credit is not for the purpose of purchasing or carrying securities or 
of evading or circumventing the provisions of paragraph (1) of this 
subsection." 
(3) By striking "registered on a national securities 
exchange" in the first sentence of subsection (d),and "registered on 
national securities exchanges" in the second sentence of that subsection. 

248 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/23/67 
AooRcaa orriciAL c q n r c i p o n o i n c e 
TO THE BOARD 
January 23, 1967 
Mr, W. Braddock Hickman. President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
This refers to your letter of November 17, 1966, 
concerning construction of a vault and covered loading dock, with 
parking surface on the roof of this structure, on the site of the 
parking lot adjoining the Pittsburgh Branch building. 
The Board will interpose no objection to your Bank's 
proceeding with the preparation of final plans and specifications 
for the construction of the proposed addition. It is understood 
that the vault walls will be constructed of 27 inches of concrete 
with structural reinforcing as recommended in Mr. Morrison's 
letter of January 3, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

249 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/23/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 24, 1967 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of January 17, 1967, the Board 
approves the appointment of Samuel R. Hanford as 
an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston. Please advise the effective date 
of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

250 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/23/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 24, 1967 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of January 17, 1967, the Board approves the appointment 
ot Peter W. North as an assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston. Please advise the effective date 
of the appointment. 
It is noted that Mr. North owns five shares of 
stock of The Home National Bank and Trust Company of Meriden, 
Meriden, Connecticut. Accordingly, the Board's approval of 
the appointment of Mr. North is given on the condition that 
he will dispose of the stock prior to the effective date of 
the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

251 
BOARD OF GDVERNQRB 
O F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/23/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 24, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of January 18, 1967, the Board 
approves the designation of each of the following 
employees as a special assistant examiner for the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond: 
Robert S. Koehler 
Carl M. Henderson 
Earl M. Jordan 
Richard J. Keen 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
