Minutes for 
October 18, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Ml '•MS 
M/ 

O 
t 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, October 18, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal-, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Winkler, Secretary, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Wernick, Keir, 
Baker, Beck, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and Kichline 
and Mrs. Peskin of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Ghiardi, Bradshaw, Gekker, and 
Stem of the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Today's review consisted of reports by 
Mr. Kelty on the Government securities market, by Mrs. Peskin on 
prospective Treasury financing and the maturity structure of the U.S. 
public debt, by Mr. Fry on bank credit developments, and by Mr. Stem 
on the foreign exchange and gold markets. Copies of the several charts 
and tables distributed for the purpose of today's review have been 
placed in the Board's files. 

' J 
t 
o 
/ ^ y 
10/18/68 
-2-
All members of the research divisions except Messrs. Partee and 
Reynolds then withdrew and the following entered: 
Messrs. O'Connell, 
Shay, Doyle, and Lynch of the Legal Division and Mr. Grimwood of the 
Division of International Finance. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Minneapolis and Kansas City on October 11 and 
by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and 
San Francisco on October 17, 1968, -of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
American International Bank. There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Legal Division dated October 10, 1968, in connec-
tion with the request of American International Bank, New York, New 
York, an Edge corporation, for a ruling on whether it could purchase 
gold bullion on occasions from licensed domestic sources for resale 
to licensed domestic users under its Treasury Department gold license. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York had recommended that the 
request be denied, stating that it did not appear necessary for Amer-
ican International Bank to be permitted to purchase gold in the United 
States in order to continue to deal in foreign gold. 
The Legal Division recommended favorably, stating that occa-
sional domestic purchases appeared necessary to enable the Edge corpo-
ration to continue its normal business as a supplier of gold when the 

3730 
10/18/68 
-3-
market was such that it could not profitably purchase gold abroad. 
When the domestic price of gold was lower than the foreign market, the 
corporation would be forced either to sell at a loss to its established 
customers or, in the alternative, not to supply them at all. The Divi-
sion therefore concluded that occasional domestic purchases would be 
incidental to the corporation's international or foreign business, so 
long as those domestic purchases remained infrequent and insubstantial 
in relation to aggregate foreign purchases. 
Governor Daane inquired whether there had been discussion with 
the Treasury concerning this matter and, when the response was in the 
negative, expressed the opinion that the Board should have the benefit 
of the Treasury's views because of the broad implications in terms of 
the gold market. 
Governor Brimmer said that he shared Governor Daane's concern 
and that he found the Reserve Bank's position quite persuasive. 
He 
felt that in any event it would be desirable to obtain more specific 
information on the extent to which the requested authority would have 
been used over the past several months, if available, and on the extent 
of its prospective use in relation to aggregate foreign purchases. 
There followed discussion of criteria that had been applied in 
the past in determining whether certain domestic activities were 
"incidental" to the international or foreign business of Edge corpora-
tions, following which Governor Mitchell commented that if it appeared 

10/18/68 
-4-
that the proposed domestic gold purchases were necessary he would be 
inclined to grant the requested authority. However, the New York 
Reserve Bank apparently was not convinced that such purchases were in 
fact necessary. Governor Maisel observed that the definition of the 
word "incidental" rather than "necessary" was crucial and indicated 
that in his opinion the domestic gold purchases could be considered 
"incidental." 
Governor Sherrill noted that an authorization to make 
them would tend to minimize inventories. 
Governor Brimmer repeated that he believed the burden should 
be on the Edge corporation to demonstrate in some measurable fashion 
that in making any domestic purchases it would be conducting business 
that was incidental to its foreign operations. Governor Maisel sug-
gested that the Board's permission could be couched in such language 
and that examinations of the Edge corporation could be expected to 
reveal whether the terms of the Board's permission were being adhered 
to. Governor Daane expressed the view that information of the kind 
suggested by Governor Brimmer should, if obtained, be helpful in deter-
mining whether domestic gold purchases could properly be described as 
"infrequent and insubstantial" in relation to foreign purchases. 
Governor Robertson expressed doubt that Edge corporations 
should be in the business of buying and selling gold. The Board's 
earlier letter to American International Bank had specified a limita-
tion to foreign gold purchases, and he felt that it Would at least be 
advisable to obtain the Treasury's views before going any further. 

O t O ^ 
10/18/68 
-5-
After further discussion it was understood that the matter 
would be brought back to the Board for further consideration after 
additional study by the staff in the light of the comments that had 
been made today. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Secretary of the Federal Advisory 
1 
Council transmitting suggested topics for dis-
cussion at the forthcoming meeting of the 
Council. 
Letter to Chairman Patman of the House Committee 
2 
on Banking and Currency transmitting information 
regarding one-bank holding companies. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon 
then withdrew and Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services, entered. 
Annex building. Governor Sherrill noted that three firms 
interested in performing services related to the interior decorating 
of the new annex building had now made presentations before members of 
the Board. As a result, it appeared that the choice had been narrowed 
to two possibilities, namely, the Loewy-Snaith firm (one of those that 
had made a presentation) and the Board's architects. 
It was his impres-
sion that the Board members were about equally divided in their views. 

o * o o 
10/18/68 
-6-
There followed a discussion during which two members of the 
Board (Governors Mitchell and Maisel) indicated that they would lean 
toward the Loewy-Snaith firm, principally on the ground that this 
would introduce an additional creative talent into the planning of the 
building. Two members (Governors Robertson and Brimmer) expressed 
preference for having the work done by the Board's architects, primar-
ily on the basis that this would be more economical and avoid unneces-
sary complications. Governor Daane indicated that he had no particular 
preference. 
In the circumstances the question was referred to Governor 
Sherrill for decision in his discretion after considering the views 
that had been expressed. 
Mr. Kelleher then withdrew from the meeting. 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Governor Sherrill made a 
progress report on the review of the management situation at the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Atlanta that he had undertaken at the Board's 
request. He noted, among other things, that the attitude of Bank 
personnel had been cooperative, that he had conducted interviews in 
depth with Bank officers at several levels, and that steps were being 
taken to develop a list of candidates, from all sources, who might be 
considered for the position of First Vice President if, as now seemed 
to be indicated, the health of the incumbent did not permit him to 
continue in that capacity. 
Governor Sherrill also described the results' of his inquiry 
into the circumstances under which Vice President Shaw of the New 

*
 v 
* 7 
o» i «J 
10/18/68 
-7-
Orleans Branch had decided to accept an attractive position in commer-
cial banking. He stated reasons why he believed it would not be desir-
able to raise any further questions in that regard (a conclusion the 
other Board members accepted) and expressed the view that Assistant 
Vice President Kantner merited consideration as Mr. Shaw's successor. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

of Cow/'. 
b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20581 
Item No. 1 
10/18/68 
ADORKBB OrriCIAL CORRE9PON 
TO THC BOARD 
October 18, 1968. 
Mr. Herbert V. Prochnow, 
Secretary, 
Federal Advisory Council, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Herb: 
The Board of Governors suggests the topics shown on 
the attached list for discussion at the meeting of the Federal 
Advisory Council on November 18, 1968, and the joint meeting 
of the Board and the Council on November 19. 
In addition to the topics shown on the attached list, 
the Board might also ask for comments on a draft regulation to 
implement the Bank Protection Act of 1968, if the draft, which 
is now in preparation, is available before the meeting date. 
In that event, we will so advise you and forward copies of the 
draft. 
If your after-lunch schedule on November 19 will con-
veniently permit, I'd like to get together with you, and perhaps 
Bill Korsvik too, to talk a bit about FAC activities. 
In light 
of your years of experience and the brief time in which I've been 
closely associated with the work of the FAC, I'm sure I could 
benefit from a conversation about any things to be wary of, and 
any possible improvements, that stick out in your mind. I mentioned 
this interest of mine in arranging a get-together to John Mayer when 
he called on another matter, and he said he'd like to join us if his 
schedule permits. 
Sincerely, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Attachment 

* \ v 
O 
4 
Suggested Topics for Discussion at Meeting of 
Federal Advisory Council on November 18-19, 1968 
Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general economic outlook 
for late 1968 and early 1969? Are there any indications 
that the mid-year tax increase is affecting consumer 
spending or business policies and plans, or that the 
measures with respect to limitations on Government spend-
ing are having an impact? 
B. What indications do Council members have from customer 
contacts regarding capital investment spending in the 
year ahead? 
Is more or less external financing than 
recently likely to be required for such spending? 
Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the probable strength 
of business loan demand in the months ahead? 
What kinds 
of customer reactions have developed to the prevailing 
"split" prime rate? 
B. In view of the prospects for exceptionally heavy mortgage 
loan demand, especially in the income-propcrty area, does 
the Council believe that banks will significantly increase 
their takings of mortgages in 1969? 
C. What is the Council's view regarding current and prospective 
inflows of consumer-type time deposits? 
Has the tax increase 
had any noticeable effect on such flows? 
D. How would the Council assess the experience of member banks 
thus far with the new methods of computing reserve require-
ments under the amendment to Regulation D that became effec-
tive September 12, 1968? 
E. What responses, if any, in banker plans have Council members 
observed to the Board's action allowing State member banks 
to own and operate certain kinds of subsidiary corporations 
and loan production offices? 
F. What comments or suggestions do Council members have regard-
ing regulatory provisions the Board might issue in implementa« 
tion of the recently enacted legislation concerning regulation 
of advertising of rates of interest on deposits? 

Balance of payments. 
A. How does the Council appraise the outlook for the remainder 
of the year for (1) demands for Euro-dollar loans at foreign 
branches of U.S. banks, (2) Euro-dollars advanced by branches 
to home offices, and (3) direct borrowings from foreign banks 
by U.S. banks (i.e., not through foreign branches)? 
B. Do Council members have any comments or suggestions with 
respect to a voluntary foreign credit restraint program for 
1969? 
The Board would be interested in any comments Council members 
might have on the draft of the proposed regulation to implement 
the Truth in Lending Title of the Consumer Credit Protection Act 
that was published on October 16. 
What are the Council's views on monetary and credit policy under 
current circumstances? 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 2 
10/18/68 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 18, 1968. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The following information is provided in response to 
your request of July 27, 1968. 
Table I includes the specific information requested 
concerning one-bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. 
As of September 1, 1968, there existed 684 known one-bank holding 
companies. This list includes 243 banks that were not on the 
list of 540 furnished to you and reported to be in existence on 
December 31, 1965. However, the total increase in bank holding 
companies since that date is only 144 since 99 of the banks 
reported to be in one-bank holding companies in existence in 
1965 are no longer listed. They have either become part of 
registered bank holding companies or disappeared as a result 
of mergers, sales, or other action. 
While the lists are not exact since new developments 
occur in this field daily, Table II is a list of 36 banks which 
have announced during the last six months that they will form 
one-bank holding companies. The current status of each proposal 
depends upon the legal requirements of the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the individual States. Deposits in these banks 
amounted to approximately $46 billion as of June 1968. 
Table I I I includes a list of proposed purchases of 
banks by seven non-bank institutions as reported in the press 
and trade journals during the past six months. The actual 
formation of the one-bank holding companies in these cases also 
will depend upon the negotiations between the companies involved 
as well as upon legal requirements. Deposits in these banks 
amounted to $2 billion as of June 1968. 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 2 -
3739 
Table IV lists four recently formed one-bank holding 
companies not included in the list of 684 in Table I. 
Deposits 
in these banks amounted to $1.6 billion as of June 1968. 
As Chairman Martin testified before your Committee on 
September 25, 1968, the Board believes the formation of one-bank 
holding companies raises serious questions as to the limits of 
financial and non-financial activities which are appropriate to 
banks and their affiliates. We believe that the recent accel-
erating trend toward the establishment of such companies 
underscores the need for a re-examination of the Bank Holding 
Company Act. The Board is currently studying this important 
question which has so many ramifications, not only for banking 
but for the basic structure of our economy. 
Sincerely, 
Enclosures 
/ J. L. Robertson 
I 
/ 
v.. ••• 
