PR 609 
{(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
M ay 10> 
1 9 7 1 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
; j" . 
' 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
o
f 
tiiO 
m.v.jri.wb:; 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1127 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 10, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherri11 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
.Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mrs. Hobbs of the Office of the Secretary 
The staff presented an economic and financial review of the kind 
customarily presented in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. Copies of the statistical charts and tables prepared for 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
of the individual briefings. 
Members of the staff who had attended for the economic and finan-
cial review then withdrew. 
JV Other officers and staff of the Division were also present. 

1128 
5/10/71 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously the applica-
tion of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares 
of The Village National Bank, also of Houston, a proposed new bank, and 
authorized the issuance of an order in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, F. Solomon, and 
O'Connell then withdrew. 
- Governor Sherrill raised a series of proposed personnel actions 
for Board attention. He joined in a recommendation by Mr. Frederic 
Solomon that a new Fiduciary Activities group be established in the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation and that Mr. John P. Flaherty, 
currently with the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, be appointed as 
head of that group. Mr. Flaherty would be given the title of Assistant 
Director and would begin service effective June 1, 1971, at an annual 
salary of $26,000. Governor Sherrill also joined in the recommendation 
of Mr. O'Connell that Mr. Robert F. Sanders, currently Assistant General 
Counsel in the Legal Division, be promoted to the position of Deputy Gen-
eral Counsel, with an increase in annual salary from $29,600 to $30,500, 
ef fee tive at the beginning of the next pay period. The Board approved 
both of these recommendations. 
In addition, Governor Sherrill informed the Board that Mr. Griffith 
L. Garwood was to be promoted to the non-official position of Chief of the 
Truth in Lending Section in the Division of Supervision and Regulation. 

1129 
5/10/71 
- 3 -
Governor Sherrill also reported to the Board, as a matter of 
information, that Mr. Merritt Sherman, former Secretary and Assistant 
to the Board, who is now serving as a part-time consultant to the Board, 
had been asked by Praeger Publishers to author a volume on the Federal 
Reserve System as part of the Praeger Library of U. S. Government Depart-
ments and Agencies. No Board action was called for with respect to this 
matter, inasmuch as Mr. Sherman would be writing the book during time 
when he was not performing consultative work for the Federal Reserve 
System. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No 
5/10/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC,, 
' 
Houston, Texas, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of more 
1 
than 51 per cent of the voting shares 
1 
of The Village National Bank, Houston, 
1 
Texas. 
1 
^
•
•
M
W
^
f
a
M
M
w
M
M
W
M
M
M
M
a
i
M
a
i
M
W 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., 
Houston, Texas ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more than 
51 per cent of the voting shares of The Village National Bank, 
Houston, Texas ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller offered no objection to approval of the application. 

i 
1131 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 26, 1971 (36 Federal Register 5754), pro* 
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
ttas forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant directly or indirectly controls two subsidiary 
banks and has an interest of less than 25 per cent of the voting 
shares in six other Texas banksApplicant !s two subsidiary banks 
control total deposits of $602 million, which constitutes 11.3 per 
cent of total bank deposits in the Houston SMSA and 2.6 per cent 
o f State deposits. The total group of banks in which Applicant 
^as an interest controls 12.9 per cent of total deposits in the 
sMSA and Applicant is the third largest banking organization in 
market. Applicant^ acquisition of a proposed new bank would 
^ave no immediate effect on concentration of banking resources. 

Applicant's two closest affiliated banks are located eight 
and nine miles from Bank's proposed site. There are four banks 
located within Bank's proposed service area, all of them more than 
three miles from Bank's proposed location. No existing competition 
would be eliminated by consummation of the proposal, nor would 
significant potential competition be foreclosed or would there be 
adverse effects on any competing banks. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant and the banks within its group are satisfactory and 
consistent with approval of the application. Considerations 
concerning convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
lend some weight toward approval, due to the benefits to be derived 
from the existence of an additional banking facility in the com-
munity. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
ttould be in the public interest and that the application should 
be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
S^juiimatedl (aj before the thirtieth eslendar 4sgr following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
°f this Order, and* provided further that (c) fhft Village National 
Bank shall be opened for business not later than six months after 

1133 
-4-
the date of this Order, The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof 
may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 10, 1971, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
[SEAL] 
