MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 5, 1972 

1 7 2 1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, July 5, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane I f 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
I f 
Withdrew from meeting and reentered at points indicated in minutes. 

1722 
7/5/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis approving the transfer of 
two towns in Indiana from the head office territory to the Louisville 
Branch territory. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. I. 
The Board approved unanimously the request of the Chairman 
of the Conference of First Vice Presidents to transfer responsibility 
for maintenance of the Federal Reserve Telegraph Code Book from the 
Board's Division of Administrative Services to the Conference of First 
Vice Presidents. A copy of the letter informing the Federal Reserve 
Banks of this action is attached as Item No. 2. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Personnel 
Administration in a memorandum dated June 13, 1972, the Board approved 
unanimously a cost-of-living increase of 4.8 per cent for those Board 
Plan retirees and survivor-annuitants who were on the retirement rolls 
as of July 1, 1972, with the understanding that the Executive Secretary 
of the Retirement Plan would be requested to charge the liability created 
by this increase against the excess reserves allocable to the Board Plan. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Executive Secretary of the Retirement 
Plan is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to the acquisition of shares of P. T. Citicorp Eksim Investment Finance, 

j L V a v 3 
7/5/72 
-3-
a money market-finance company to be organized in Djakarta, Indonesia. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved a letter to Mellon National Bank and Trust 
Company, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, granting permission to establish a 
branch in Frankfurt, Germany. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to The Philadelphia 
National Bank, Ardmore, Pennsylvania, granting permission to establish 
a branch in Luxembourg. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Old Colony Bank and 
Trust Company of Williamsburg, Williamsburg, Virginia, approving its 
application for membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 7. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation. In a 
memorandum dated June 15, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation recommended approval of the application of First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, for an amendment 
to the Board's consent to the continued holding of First National City 
Flaminia Holding di Servizi Finanziari S.p.A., Milan, Italy, to permit 
a reduction in reporting requirements for certain types of shares. A 
draft letter in that form was attached. 

172>1 
7/5/72 
-4-
During discussion Governor Brimmer expressed concern that 
applicant may have been engaging in a substantial securities trading 
operation and that approval of this request might give rise to undesir-
able circumstances. However, staff believed that it was unlikely that 
approval of the application would have undesirable consequences, and, 
in any event, the regular examination process would continue to provide 
required information regarding applicant's operations. 
The Board unanimously approved the letter to First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, with the understanding that in 
the examination of applicant particular attention would be given to the 
area of concern. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 8. 
Report on competitive factors. With a memorandum dated June 27, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation submitted a draft 
report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Prudential Savings Bank, 
New York, New York, into Broadway Savings Bank, New York, New York. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Broadway 
Savings Bank, New York, and Prudential Savings Bank, 
New York, would eliminate some existing competition 
and limited potential for increased competition between 
them. The proposed merger would not significantly 
increase concentration among thrift institutions in 
the New York Metropolitan area, and a substantial num-
ber and variety of financial institutions offering 
convenient facilities for savings banks' customers 
exist in the area. The overall effect of the proposal 
on competition would be slightly adverse. 

1723 
7/5/72 
-5-
Discussion developed majority support for the proposed conclu-
sion. Governors Robertson and Brimmer, however, expressed the belief 
that the amount of competition that would be eliminated by consummation 
of the merger was sufficient to warrant a finding of adverse. The 
Board thereupon approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, 
the transmittal of the report to the FDIC in the form proposed by the 
staff. 
Chase Manhattan Bank. The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
Association), New York, New York, had applied for permission to purchase 
additional shares of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Chase Manhattan Bank 
(Switzerland). This proposed additional investment was reportedly 
needed to meet Swiss requirements governing capitalization and lending 
limits. In a memorandum dated July 3, 1972, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation stated that the sole issue in the application, which had 
hindered its processing, was Chase's refusal to comply with the condi-
tion attached to the Board's original consent regarding the avail-
ability to U.S. supervisory authorities of information concerning the 
operations and activities of the Swiss subsidiary. Several other U.S. 
banks that held Swiss subsidiaries, however, had complied with the 
conditions set down by the Board. The Division listed several courses 
of action that it believed were open to the Board in dealing with this 
situation, but recommended that in a further effort to exact compliance, 

I
KfO r» 
/(CO 
7/5/72 
-6-
Chase be informed at a high level that the Board had fully considered 
the issue and was not prepared to make an exception for Chase. 
During the discussion it was concluded that it would be unwise 
to approve this application in the light of Chase's continued refusal 
to comply with the conditions that it had previously agreed to support. 
However, in view of several important considerations that were discussed, 
it was felt that the Board should not deny the application at this time. 
It was therefore understood that Governor Robertson would con-
tact Mr. David Rockefeller, Chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank, to inform 
him of the Board's position and ask that he designate a representative 
to discuss this matter with members of the Board and the staff. 
Holding company guidelines. In accordance with the Board's 
discussion on June 30, 1972, the Legal Division, in a memorandum 
dated July 3, 1972, presented a draft of a letter to be sent to all 
Federal Reserve Banks concerning the effect and application of the 
Board's guidelines regarding formation of one-bank holding companies. 
In addition, a press release reflecting the Board's position had been 
distributed. 
After discussion the Board unanimously approved the letter 
and press release with the understanding that certain changes in both 
documents would be made by Governor Robertson. Copies of the press 

1727 
7/5/72 
-7-
release and the letter sent to the Reserve Ranks are attached under 
Item No. 9. 
Cheyenne County Investment Company. In a memorandum dated 
May 3, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the application of Cheyenne County Investment Company, Inc., 
St. Francis, Kansas, to become a bank holding company through acquisi-
tion of shares of The Cheyenne County State Bank, St. Francis, Kansas. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 10. 
Cody Agency. In a memorandum dated April 28, 1972, the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the appli-
cations of Cody Agency, Inc., Cody, Nebraska, (1) to become a bank 
holding company through acquisition of shares of Bank of Cody, and 
(2) to retain Cody Insurance Agency. The Banking Markets Section also 
recommended approval. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications and authorized 
the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 11. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Armored car and courier services. Earlier this year a hearing 
was conducted to consider whether armored car and courier services were 

1728 
7/5/72 
-8-
permissible activities for bank holding companies under the 1970 amend-
ments to the Bank Holding Company Act. The parties to the proceedings 
were sent the recommended decision of the hearing officer and requested 
to file exceptions or comments by July 17, 1972. American Courier 
Corporation moved that the July 17 deadline be extended to August 16 
because of the voluminous record, the length of the recommended deci-
sion, the complexity of the issues, and the summer vacation period. 
In a memorandum dated July 3, 1972, the Legal Division recommended that 
the Board extend the filing period to August 1. The Division stated 
that an extension to August 1 would afford American Courier additional 
time without unduly delaying the proceedings. 
After discussion the Board unanimously approved the extension 
of the filing period to August 1, 1972, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to the interested parties. A copy 
of the letter sent to counsel for American Courier Corporation is 
attached as Item No. 12. 
Covernor Daane returned to the meeting at this point. 
Bank Securities, Inc. In a memorandum dated June 22, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of Bank Securities, Inc., Alamogordo, New Mexico, to 
acquire shares of First National Bank of Roswell, Roswell, New Mexico. 
During discussion reservations were expressed with respect to 
approval of the application in view of the need for improvement in 

1723 
7/5/72 
- 9 -
certain areas of applicant's operations. However, there was support 
for the suggestion that, particularly due to the unstable condition 
of First National Bank of Roswell, this application be approved, but 
that no further applications be approved until such time as the appli-
cant had demonstrated improvement in several areas. 
The Board thereupon unanimously approved the application and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of 
the order is attached as Item No. 13. It was understood that staff 
from the Board and from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas would meet 
with representatives of applicant and inform them of the Board's concern 
and intention with respect to future applications. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1730 
B O A R D 
OF G D V E R N G R B 
I t e m N q > ± 
o f THE 
7/5/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 V B T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N . 
O. 
C. 
f.OSSl 
ADDRESS arriniAu tcRstsPUHDEncr. 
TO THC HOARD 
July 5, 1972 
Mr, Eugene A. Leonard 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of f-t. Louis 
St, Louis, Missouri 63166 
Dear Mr, Leonard: 
Referring to your letter of May 16, 1972^ 
the Board of Governors approves the transfer of the 
towns of Holland, Indiana, located in Dubois County, 
and Loogootee, Indiana> located in Martin County from 
the Head Office territory to that of the Louisville 
Branch, 
Please notify the Board when the effective 
date of the change, ic determined« 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Ass.istant Secretary 

J ' 
V 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
LJF 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
1731 
Item No. 2 
7/5/72 
S-22t>5 
A R D H E B S O F F I C I A L 
n O S B E B I ' O N O E N C i . 
TO THE CiOAfJD 
July 
1972 
The Board has considered a request from the Conference of 
Hrst Vice Presidents that the Board modify its letter of February 23, 
concerning, operations of the Leased Uire System (F.L.L.S. 
Paragraph 270.01). 
The Board has agreed that the following language should be 
deleted from that letter: 
"The compilation of a Federal Reserve Telegraph 
Code was authorised in Kovember, 1919, for use in 
connection with telegrams sent over the Federal : '.eserve 
Tensed Wire System. The first edition of the telegraph 
code became effective July 19 1921, end superseded the 
use of the AJ)A Code and special code vords which had 
been adopted from tine to time by the Federal Reserve 
System. Subsequently, a second edition, effective 
I .arch 
1929, 
and a third edition, effective August 
1939, were distributed. Since the latter date, revised 
pages have been sent periodically to the Federal 
Reserve banks and Treasury Department for insertion in 
telegraph code books. 
'The Board's Division of. Administrative Services 
maintains a supply of code books and has responsibility 
for their preparation and distribution. The Federal 
Reserve Banks make suggestions for changes in the cede. 
Revised pages are prepared, usually on an annual basis, 
in the light; of these suggestions." 
that the following language should be substitutedi 

"The compilation of a Federal Reserve Telegraph 
Code was authorized in November, 1919, f.or use in 
connection with telegrams sent over the. Federal 
Reserve. Leased Wire System, Over the years the codes 
were updated but gradually became obsolete because 
raost messages were transmitted in clear language, 
"Recognizing that there is still a need for use 
°J; codes primarily for brevity in telegraphic trans-
mission of administrative messages, Treasury offerings, 
® u d financial data, the Book has been revised as of 
y I ? .1972, to provide for all words currently in 
usc. Responsibility for maintenance and distribution 
of the Book has been transferred from the Hoard to the 
Conference of First Vice Presidents.0 
7-£ iff f-vripr 
t"h.nf H < p. f- v» Imf •? on 
f tl>r> voir 4 nnA Qc&G BOOlc 
Very truly yours, 
J 
Hi die a 1 A. Greenspan 
v 
Assistaut Seeretary 
I?, 
P R E S I I W f S OF A L L FEDERAL R B S E R V E B A N K S A M D T H E V X C E F R E S I D E N I S 
h W ^ i G E 0 ? bEAtvCHES 

1733 
B O A R D 
G r 
G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 3 
OF the 
7/5/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 205b J 
ADDRESS Df F1CIAL V. CRHCSi'ON OE HCt 
in 7 H K 'IOAI! D 
July 5, 1972 
Mi*. Martin W. Bergin, Executive .Secretary 
Federal Reserve Employee Benefits System 
c/o Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
He\? York, New York 
10045 
Bear Mr, Bergin: 
T.n continuation of the practice of maintaining the 
retirement benefits of the Board Plan comparable to those of 
the U.S.. Civil Service Retircmant System, the annuities of Board 
Vl-aii retirees and survivor-annuitants which commenced on or before 
July .1 , 1972, should be increased by 4.8 percent, effective that 
date. There i& enclosed a copy of Civil Service bulletin No. 8SJ--40 
announcing this latest: increase in the annuities of its retiree-:, and 
ei!rv.i vor anaui Lants. 
The Board of Governors requests that the cost of applying 
this increase to the annuities of its retirees and survivor-annuitants 
°n the roll;; as of July 1, .197 2, be funded through the use of excess 
Reserves allocable to the Board Plan. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
I ,'V/o* f'0'l*/' •, 
t p r n ? : 
• <u w-s**;. 
M i. c ha e3. A . G r e en s p a n 
As s is t aii t S e c re t ar y 

1731 
B O A R D 
O r 
G O V E K N C 1 W S 
l t e n 
Nq_ 
4 
.^oVccV:-. 
D F T H E 
„ 
7/5/72 
' 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
205B1 
A D O R E S S D f - I C t A t . 
C D R R E 9 I ' Q H B E N C E 
TQ T H E 
P O A R D 
July 6, 1972 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
Mew York, New York 10022 
Gentleman: 
As requested in your letter of May 3, 1972, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to purchase 
and hold 90 per cent of the shares of P. T. Citicorp Eksim Investment 
Finance ("Eksim"), Djakarta, Indonesia, at a cost of approximately 
$900,000, provided the shares, are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares or Eksim by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not held, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Eksim if Eksim at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if Eksim establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Indonesia or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That*, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will'furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Eksim as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Eksim 
be sported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if Kksim were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

1735 
To: First National City Overseas 
Investment.Corporation 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter oo .or as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by Eksim in Indonesia in 
the currency of that country. 
You have requested consent for Eksim to engage in the 
business of u n d e r w r i t i n g or dealing in securities. The Board s 
consent to such activities is conditioned upon your Corpoiation s 
obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the continued holding 
Of shares of Eksim should Eksim acquire stock of individual issuers 
costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 7.5 per cent of the 
voting shares of any company, except in the case of 
operations covered by firm commitments from s u b u n d e r w n t e r s or other 
purchasers. With respect to trading in securities in "hie* Cor-
porations are prohibited from investing by the provisions o£ the 
eighth paragraph of Section 75(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the. 
Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact that E^sim wi11 
acquire such shares only as dealer or u n d e r w r i t e r 
mamta n a si c 
and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, 
and dispose of: such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported under Section 211.6(d) of Regulation k 
Howevc. , they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date o, 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
quested by the Board. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition 
it is "quested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through ^ e d e r a l ^ R c s e , v e 
Hank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
Association, and By-Laws of Eksim. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restra nt Guide-
lines as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliate,. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D 
CJF 
G O V E R N O R S 
1738 
Item No. 5 
or the 
7/5/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
I : : 
V- • 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
30551 
n
w
w
g
-
m j t f f e : 
A D D R E f i B OT'-IHIAL 
C O a f i E R P U N O t N C E 
TO T H E 
D D A R O 
July 5, 1972 
Mc-llon National Bank 
and Trust Company 
Mellon Square 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
15230 
Ger.tiemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
*ts permission to Mellon National Bank and Trust Company, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, pursuant: to the provisions of Section 25 of the federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Frankfurt, Germany, and to op-
erate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
kusiness on or before July 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland, when the branch is opened for business, 
burnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in lo-
cation of the branch in Frankfurt. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
Poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance 
payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in 
the conduct of the branch's operations, maximum reliance will be placed 
0 n resources obtained outside the United States. Furthermore, it is 
understood that the investment required will be made in conformity with 
the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and 
its affiliates. 
V e v y t r u J. y yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
M j c h a e 1 A. G r e e r t s p 11 v» 
A s s i s t a n(. Se c rear y o f: t. he Bo ar 6 

1737 
B O A R D U F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
.•^oV'co;^.. 
or THE 
1 h i 12 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
m
m
: 
3 M K ; 
«Mi. 
• 
A D D R E S S O r r i C I A L C D f t R E S F O N O L N 1- K 
TO T H E 
B D A R O 
Julv 5, 1972 
Philadelphia National Bank 
Ardmore, Pennsylvania 
^ent. lemon: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
Pftrmission to The Philadelphia National Bank, Ardmore, Pennsylvania, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
v establish a branch in Luxembourg, and to operate and maintain such 
-anon subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation H. 
^ 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
^'siness on or before July 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall be 
to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
Somatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
serve Bank of Philadelphia, when the branch is opened foi business, 
j 0 Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
0u-3ti.cr: of the branch in Luxembourg. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided i,y home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
llCes> or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
; 
^-o^eign credit restraint effort, "In view of the Board's concern 
•v-ri minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of pay-
mcnits> the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
^ii'.Iuct of (-.he branch's operations, maximum reliance will be placed on 
-^sources obtained outside the United States. Furthermore, it is under-
' ooci that the investment required will be made in conformity wich the 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Foard 

1733 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
','oVco!^.. 
o r THE 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7 / 5 / 7 2 
. 
WASHINGTON, 
D . 
C. 
20551 
'-M i I 
• 
A D D R E S S O r r i C I A t . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
m 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 5, 1972 
Board or Directors 
('Id Colony Bank and Trust Company 
Williamsburg 
Williamsburg, Virginia 
Ci( r.tleiaen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Old Colony Bank and Trust Company of 
Williamsburgj. Williamsburg, Virginia, for stock in the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, effective if and when the bank opens for 
business under appropriate State authorization, subject to the num-
h--rod conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of l:he Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made 
in the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities, 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $1,000,000, and other capital funds of net less 
than $500,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Partierlar attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
^.gnl&tion b*. regarding membership of State banking institutions 
i n 
Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Scu-.li.oo. 208,7 
tiv-rr.of.. 
t. ,-cpy c.f the regulation is e&clopsd. 

1739 
Old Colony Bank and Trust 
C omp a ny o f W i i 1 i a m s b ur g 
.. 
I t is understood t h a t any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, will 
be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment, to the bank's charter 
is made. the hank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved in order that it may be determined 
whether such" change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank lias appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice 
of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount 
of: Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required 
reaeive balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System i n the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to one <;4r fvo-n the date- of tais letter, unless the bank applies to 
tlie. Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is^advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership i n the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank p l e a s a n t . 
The* officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
co assist vou in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve 
System and' at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank 
lueaas for nuking' the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A, Greenspan 
Ass istant Secretary 
02 are 

B O A R D 
G F 
G D V E R N D R S 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
17-lQ 
Item No. 8 
.•^OVCoi^-. 
DF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7 / 5 / 7 2 
A D D R E S S D r r t C I A l . 
C O t i O E S t ' O N C J N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
July 6, 1972 
1'irst National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 7, 1972, 
regarding the reporting of acquisitions and dispositions of shares 
under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K by your affiliate, First 
National City Flaminia Holding di Servizi. Finanziari S.p.A. ("FNCF5') , 
Milan, Italy. 
The Board has reviewed the question of reporting require-
ments for temporary acquisitions of the type described in your 
letter, and grants your Corporation an exemption from reporting 
•requisitions and dispositions under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
for shares acquired by FNCF which are publicly quoted ori an Italian 
stock exchange, and which are held by FNCF for less than two months 
and purchased against a forward sales contract. However, such shares 
are to be reported as a separate class (together with date of ac-
quisition) in any Call Report of Condition. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 9 
7/5/72 
F o r M e d i a t e release 
July 5, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
wade, public the attached 1otter to the Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve. Banks concerning their use of delegated authority for approval 
0 x Proposed one-bank holding companies. 
The letter follows up an oral presentation tc the Board, on 
J u n G 28, 1972, at which interested parties gave their views on guide-
lines issued by the Board to the Reserve Banks for use in approving one-
kauk holding company applications. The record o f : the presentation ia 
k'-ing held open for written comment by participants and others through 
12s after which the Board will reconsider the guidelinesc 
The Board's letter was designed to clear up misunderstandings 
to the uce of the guidelines that became apparent in the. June 28 oral 
Presentation. Accordingly, the letter made clear that the Reserve Banks 
should; 
(1) Continue to use the guidelines, as they stand, delineating 
the extent to which Federal Reserve Banks can approve one-bank holding 
company applications under delegated authority. 
( 2 ) 
Forward to the Board for action any applications that do 
meet those guidelines, or which, for any 
other reason, the Reserve 
Uank recommends denial. 
(3) Make, it clear that, in its deliberations, the Board will 
Consider and decide each case on its merits. 

1742 
The guidelines provide in pertinent: part: 
(i) if any offer to acquire shares .1s extended to share-
holders of the bankj the offer is extended to all 
shareholders of the seme class on an equal basis. 
(ii) the amount borrowed by the holding company to purchase 
the voting shares of the bank dees not exceed either 
50 per cent of the purchase price of the shares of rhe 
bank or 50 per cent of the equity capital of the holding 
company. the loan will be repaid within a reasonable 
period of time (not to exceed 10 years), the interest 
rate on the loan is comparable with other stock 
collateral loans by the lender to persons of comparable 
credit standing, and the loan is not conditioned upon 
maintenance of a correspondent bank balance with the 
lender that exceeds the usual needs of the bank whose 
shares are being purchased; and 
(iii) interest on and amortization of the holding company's 
indebtedness will not exceed, i n any year, 50 per cent 
of the holding company's proportionate share of the 
bank's anticipated net income (after taxes) for that 
year, unless a higher percentage is specifically 
approved by the Reserve 3an;i at the time of the for-
mation of the holding company. 
- 0 ~ 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
1 7 4 3 
G F T H r 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2055* 
A D C W E S S O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S I ' O N D E N C C 
TO 
THE 
R D A R O 
July 5, 1972 
As you know, the Board on June. 28, 1972, hold an oral 
P^sentatiori to consider questions raised with respect to the guide-
'issued to the Reserve Banks to be. used in connection with their 
Processing, pursuant to delegated authority, oi: applications to-form 
^ 
b m k h o l d l n S '-ompnnies under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 
or^-lfie?iUy, the proceeding considered whether the guidelines have been 
avpl:Led in 0 more restrictive manner than was intended or is desirable 
a!u, whether they have resulted in any undue impediment to the transfer-
01)1 U t y of bank stock. 
„ < ^t 
The record of the June 23 oral presentation ia open for 
-uevasion 
written comments by participant? and interested members 
the public until July 12, 1972, Promptly after that date, the Board 
^ U
t i reexamine the guidelines and their effect in the light of the record 
r
U 
Proceeding. However, pending this review, the written comments 
^^ived to date and presentations of participants in the June 28 pro-
feeing indicate that substantia] misunderstanding exists in the in-
b
u® t ry as to the application and effect of these guidelines. The Board 
G s U 
essential that this misunderstanding be corrected to the 
t'« ^ 
soon as possible. Accordingly, it is suggested that 
following actions be pursued with respect: to application of the 
inclines, 
r 
Pending the outcome in the near future of the Board review 
e*errcd to stove, the Reserve. Banks should continue to use the guide-
their processing of cases under delegated authority. In those 
where the. guidelines are applicable, r.he Reserve Banks should dis-
v'ss r.he5.r nature and purpose with applicants and prospective applicants, 
vxth stress being placed on the fact that:, while the Reserve Banks have 
authority to approve applications that fall within the guidelines, they 
'r';' n o t have the authority to deny applications falling outside the guide-
^ues, )JUt r af.her m u 3 t forward then to the Board for further consideration 
decision. 

1744 
-2-
An aspect of thin matter that is of equal concern to the Board 
is the apparent belief that, unless the guidelines in question ere fully 
complied with, the Board will deny one bank holding company formation 
applications, As you know, the guidelines have been issued solely to 
delineate the Reserve Banks' delegated authority to approve one bank 
holding company formations. All other cases will be decided by the 
Board on their merits following review in the light of applicable 
statutory and regulatory factors. As the record of the June 28 pre-
at:ion. rcflectc, the Board harj approved a number of applications 
which wa*;*, forwarded to it by Rteerve Banks an not failing within the 
guidelines.I' 
Pending completion by the Board of its review of the guidelines, 
the Federal Reserve Banks should adhere to the aforementioned principles 
their treatment of propo&als to form one bank holding companies. 
Very truly yours, 
(lAM^-i^ 
Michael A, Greenspah 
A s s i o t . a n t S e c r c t a xy 
A' Since the date of the delegation, the Board and the Reserve Banks 
to&ethsr have acted unon 58 eases* The Reserve Banks have approved 
3
5 
o f . these under delegated authority and have forwarded the regaining 
to th't Board for consideration. The Board has approved 22 
ox these 
ease.ij 6nd denied thKee* 
Tltr. PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND THE VICE PRESIDENTS IS CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

1745 
Item No. 10 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/5/72 
CHEYENNE COUNTY INVESTMENT COMPANY, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Cheyenne County Investment Company, Inc., St. Francis, 
Kansas, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation 
o f a bank holding company through acquisition of 100 per cent (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of The Cheyenne 
County State Bank, St. Francis, Kansas ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
Purpose of acquiring Bank which has aggregate deposits of approx-
imately $4.8 million. (All banking data are as of December 31, 
Since Applicant has no present operations or subsidiaries, 
c°nsummation of the proposal would not adversely affect existing 
0 r potential competition, nor have an adverse effect on any bank 
xt* the area. 
Applicant has made a tender offer to the principal share-
holder of Bank, while making an exchange offer to minority share-
holders *jho are all officers or directors of the bank and include 

Applicant's principal executive officer and shareholder. 
These 
individuals have all accepted the offer and, although the offers 
are not identical, they are substantially equivalent. 
Applicant's financial resources and future prospects 
are dependent upon those of Bank. Its projected earnings appear 
to be sufficient to service the debt which it will incur upon 
consummation of the proposed transaction without adversely affect-
ing Bank's capital structure. These considerations are consistent 
with approval of the application. Consummation of the proposed 
transaction would ensure continuation of local ownership and 
Management of Bank, and considerations relating to the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of Bank thus weigh 
toward approval of the application. Considerations relating to 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are con-
sistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that the transaction would be in the public interest 
a n d that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 

- 3 -
1747 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective July 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A„ Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y 
Voting for this action; Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
dimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Mitchell. 

Item No. 
7/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CODY AGENCY, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Retention of Cody Insurance Agency 
Cody Agency, Inc., Lincoln, Nebraska, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
( 1 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of Bank of Cody, Cody, Nebraska ("Bank"). 
At the same time Applicant has applied for the Board's 
approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Regulation Y to continue to engage in insurance agency activities by 
staining the assets of the Cody Insurance Agency, Cody, Nebraska 
("Agency"), 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in 
accordance with sections 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing 
comments and views has expired. The Board has considered the appli-
cations and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
i u section 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations 
sPecified in section 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and 
finds that: 
Applicant's sole business activity is operating Agency. 
Bank is t h e o n l y b a n k i n a community of less than 250 people. Bank 
h as deposits of $2.2 million and is the fourth largest of five banks 

1749 
-2-
in the Cherry County banking market, controlling approximately 9 per 
1/ 
cent of deposits in commercial banks in that market.-" 
Since the 
transaction involves only a change from individual to corporate owner-
ship, consummation of the proposal will have no adverse effects on 
existing or potential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Applicant and its existing subsidiary are consistent with approval. 
Although Applicant will incur considerable debt in acquiring Bank, its 
income from Bank and Agency will provide sufficient revenue to adequately 
Service the debt. In addition, Applicant's acquisition of Bank will 
assure continued operation of the only bank in Cody. Accordingly, 
considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served, with respect to the acquisition of Bank, lend weight toward 
approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the transaction 
w°uld be in the public Interest and that the application to acquire Bank 
should be approved. 
Agency is the only insurance agency in the town of Cody and 
Primarily sells casualty insurance. Acting as a general insurance agent 
° r broker in a community of less than 5,000 people Is an activity that 
t h e Board has previously determined by regulation to be closely related 
t o banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)). 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation 
o f the proposal would result in any undue concentration of resources, 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1970. 

1750 
- 3 -
unfair competition, conflicts of interests, unsound banking practices, 
other adverse effects on the public interest. It appears that the 
operation of Agency in conjunction with Bank will ensure the continua-
tion of both banking and insurance agency services in Cody. Based 
uPon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the record, 
the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
factors the Board is required to consider regarding the retention of 
Agency under § 4(c)(8) is favorable and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications to acquire 
Bank and to continue to engage in insurance agency activities are 
aPpro7ed for the reasons summarized above. The acquisition of Bank 
shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day 
following the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three 
months after the effective date of this Order, unless such period 
i s extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. The deter-
mination as to Agency's activities is subject to the Board's authority 
to require reports by, and make examinations of, holding companies 
and their subsidiaries and to require such modification or termination 
°f the activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as 
the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and 

1751 
-4-
Purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued 
thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
V 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
and Governor Mitchell. 

„• VoF CO;-' 
•T V > 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
QFTHE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON, D.(_, 20^5! 
. / U M 
Item No. 12 
7/5/72 
July 6, 1972 
Roger U. Langsdorf, Esq. 
^orison, Murphy, Abrams & Haddock 
OT6 K Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20006 
D e a r Mr. Langsdorf: 
The Board of Gov ornors ha s considered a motion filed by 
American Courier Corporation on June 28, 1972. for a 30-day extension 
r01)1 -July 17 > 3 972 of the time within which participants may file 
OAC.e.ptions to and comments upon the recommended decision of the hearing 
-fleer in. the Board's proceedings on armored car and courier services. 
The Board has denied such motion. However, the Board after 
loxaerat.ion of the facts and circumstances of the proceedings to date 
nj.s matter, including their protracted length, t h e size, of the 
the voluminous recommended decision, and your statement of 
Possible problems presented by the summer vacation period, concluded 
tho provision of some additional time was warranted and in the 
Public interest. 
. _ 
The Board normally provides that exceptions to a recommended 
-o.i.sion will be filed within 15 days after service thereof, and 
a P P r oxiinately 20 days were afforded in this proceeding. The Board has 
Slanted an additional 14 days for such filing by extending to August 1, 
* r . 
date by which exceptions to or comments upon the hearing 
. -cer's recommended decision may be filed by any of the participants 
" n 
proceedings. The other participants are being so advised. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

1753 
Item No. 13 
7/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANK SECURITIES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Bank Securities, Inc., Alamogordo, New Mexico, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
o f First National Bank of Roswell, Roswell, New Mexico ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n Hght of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization and third 
largest multi-bank holding company in New Mexico controls seven banks 
With aggregate deposits of $120.6 million, representing 6.6 per cent of 
total deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
(All banking data are 
as of December 31, 1971, and reflect bank holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved through May 31, 1972.) Upon acquisition of 
Bank ($40.7 million of deposits) Applicant's share of deposits in the 
State would increase by 2.2 percentage points and its present ranking 
would remain unchanged. 
Bank, the largest of three banks in Roswell, New Mexico, operates 
s ix banking offices in Roswell and adjacent communities and controls 

1754 
approximately 44 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in Chaves 
County, Hew Mexico, which approximates its banking market. The second 
and third largest banks in this market, are subsidiaries of the first 
and third largest multi-bank holding companies operating in the State. 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank would constitute its initial 
e n t r y i n t o the market, and its subsidiary banking office closest to 
Cank is located approximately 54 miles south of Bank. No competition 
e*ists between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiary banks, nor does 
it appear likely that such competition would develop in the future 
i n the light of the distances separating Bank from Applicant"s subsidiaries, 
the State's restrictive branching laws, and the low population densities 
i 
n the areas involved. Entry de novo by Applicant also appears unlikely 
in 
- view of the static economic conditions in the Roswell area. Con-
summation of the proposal herein would neither eliminate any meaningful 
existing competition nor foreclose significant potential competition. 
The Board notes that Applicant's rapid expansion program 
(ac 
quisition of seven banks since 1967) has, in part., been responsible 
f o r creating a strain on Applicant's overall financial and managerial 
esources. Since a number of banks acquired were experiencing asset, 
caprtal and management difficulties, it has been necessary for Applicant 
to 
provide management and financial assistance to these banks. Applicant's 
fforts to improve these conditions have not, as yet, been successful and 
i{: is likely that significant additional assistance will be required. 

a, ^ r r 
A. f 
- 2 -
Applicant has been providing needed capital and management 
assistance to Bank which has experienced both financial and management 
difficulties during the past few years. Declining economic conditions 
in the late 1960's in the Chaves County area and loan losses suffered by 
Bank have contributed to its present condition. Additional assistance 
is necessary to permit Bank to continue serving the Chaves County area 
as a viable financial institution. Applicant has expressed its willing-
ness to continue to assist Bank through increased contribution of managerial 
and financial resources. Its proposal to make an immediate contribution 
o f capital to Bank upon consummation of the proposal herein will orovide 
sank with needed resources, however, the need for additional assistance 
in the future also appears likely. In the light of Applicant's past 
record of assistance to Bank and the fact that no other banking organiza-
tion has indicated a willingness to provide such assistance, the Board 
views this proposal as the most appropriate means presently available 
t o eli mi n a t e Bank's operating difficulties without creating serious 
anticompetitive consequences in the Chaves County banking market. There-
fore, financial and managerial considerations, as they relate to 
Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank lend significant weight 
toward approval of the application. 
Although it does not appear that any needs of the banking 
Pnblic and Bank's market are going unserved, to the extent Applicant 
i s able to provide additional specialized services through Bank, as 
a more competitive force in the Chaves County market, convenience and 

1756 
- 2 -
needs considerations are consistent with approval. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, 
and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
Sood cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
aane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman 
Burns and Governor Mitchell. 
