MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 12, 1967 

473G 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 12, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 2:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Wayne, President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond 
Retirement System. This meeting had been arranged at the 
request of President Wayne in order to allow him to discuss with 
members of the Board, informally and in a preliminary manner, the 
main recommendations contained in the report of Arthur Stedry Hansen 
Consulting Actuaries on possible changes in the Retirement System of 
the Federal Reserve Banks. The report consisted of a summary and 
three separate volumes, all of which had been made available to the 
members of the Board. 
As brought out by President Wayne, who was serving as Chairman 
the Ad Hoc Committee of the Conference of Presidents, the report 
had been received by the Committee only within the past few days and 
the recommendations in it had thus far been discussed only in 
Principle. For a variety of reasons, moreover, the summary was 
being rewritten at the request of the Committee and the revised 
summary would not become available for about a month. Nevertheless, 

473 
12/12/67 
-2-
the principal recommendations, which were separable one from the 
other, would not be changed in the process of rewriting and it was 
his thought that even at this early stage the Board members might want 
to express general reactions. For one thing, the recommendations had 
not been costed out, and it would seem inadvisable to proceed with 
expensive and time-consuming actuarial work if it appeared that there 
were substantial objections in principle. 
President Wayne then summarized the principal proposals and 
commented on problems that would be involved in a decision to imple-
ment them in whole or in part, all against the background of the con-
5 
i 
«-
suiting firm's observation that the benefits now available under the 
Retirement System, taken as a package, appeared to compare quite 
favorably with those provided by organizations in the private sector 
°f the economy that the firm had surveyed. 
As to some of the recommendations mentioned, including a plan 
for improvement of the benefits available to the surviving spouses and 
children of persons who died in active service and a proposal for 
Periodic review of the level of allowances paid to retired employees, 
Board members indicated that the recommendations seemed attractive, 
subject to further study of cost and other factors involved, and there 
was relatively little discussion with respect to them. 
Attention therefore was directed mainly to the fundamental 
recommendation of the consultants that the Retirement System of the 

4 7 3 8 
12/12/67 
-3-
Federal Reserve Banks be converted to a noncontributory basis, and to 
the related question of disposition of funds in the Annuity Accumula-
tion Account representing contributions by employees in active service 
and earnings thereon. Also considered to some extent was a suggestion 
of the consulting firm for the establishment of a "money purchase" 
plan, described as somewhat akin to a supplemental savings plan, 
participation in which would be offered to employees, with perhaps 
some matching contributions on the part of the employing Banks. 
At a fairly early point during the discussion Chairman Martin 
inquired as to the urgency of the matter, noting that he had not yet 
been able to study the Arthur Stedry Hansen report as thoroughly as 
he would like and also that only three other Board members were 
present today. President Wayne replied that he would not suggest 
detailed study of the report until the revised summary became avail-
able. As previously indicated, however, he had hoped that by obtain-
ing general reactions at this stage it might be possible, when the 
revised summary was available, for the Ad Hoc Committee to proceed 
^ore intelligently and more expeditiously. 
(Note: Shortly thereafter 
Chairman Martin was called from the room on other business, and he was 
able to return to the meeting only briefly.) 
There followed a lengthy and somewhat involved discussion 
touching upon aspects of the matter such as the appropriateness of the 
approach followed by the consulting firm in its study, the relevance 

4799 
12/12/67 
-4-
of the findings to the making of decisions with respect to retirement 
benefits provided by the Federal Reserve System, and implications of 
the principal recommendations. The discussion had as its primary 
purpose clarification of the issues involved. In the course of it, 
however, some reservations were expressed with regard to the idea of 
shifting the Retirement System to a noncontributory basis and also 
with regard to the concept embodied in the so-called money purchase 
plan. When President Wayne inquired later whether those and related 
comments should be understood to reflect a general sentiment adverse 
to acceptance of the recommendations, however implemented, the Vice 
Chairman (in the Chairman's absence) responded that he did not feel 
that they should necessarily be so interpreted. However, there were 
obviously major questions of policy involved that would require 
additional study before firm positions could be taken. 
On that note it was understood that the revised summary of 
the Arthur Stedry Hansen report would be awaited but that in the 
meantime members of the Board would reflect on the feasibility, in 
general terms, of adopting proposals along the lines of those con-
tained in the firm's report, including the suggestion with respect to 
a money purchase plan. 
On the question of disposition of funds in the Annuity Accu-
mulation Account, President Wayne brought out that one necessary step, 
at some juncture, would be to request a legal opinion, in light of the 

4800 
12/12/67 
-5-
applicable laws and the terms of the trust indenture, on the rights 
and liabilities of the Retirement System with respect to such funds. 
Members of the Board expressed the view that it would be desirable to 
request such an opinion without further delay. In that connection 
Governor Maisel commented that two different types of legal questions 
appeared to him to be involved. The first related to the rights of 
individual employees in the existing funds and how much flexibility 
was available to the Retirement System. The second question related 
to the duties of the Trustees of the Retirement System in respect to 
investment policy, and also the legal rights to the income earned 
from such funds. 
In conclusion, President Wayne suggested that the Board members 
mull over the possibility of transferring the funds from the Annuity 
Accumulation Account to a mutual fund that would be operated outside 
the Retirement System. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
