Minutes for 
March 8, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 1,0 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

871 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, March 8, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Forrestal, Senior Attorney, and Shuter, 
Attorney, Legal Division 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank, Flint, 
1 
Michigan, granting an extension of time to establish 
a branch in Flint Township, Genesee County, and com-
menting on the bank's capital position. 

872 
3/8/67 
-10-
Item No. 
Letter to First Bank & Trust, Bryan, Texas, 
2 
approving an investment in bank premises and 
commenting on the bank's capital and liquidity 
positions. 
Letter to International Banking Corporation, 
3 
New York, New York, rescinding the Board's 
consent for International Trust Company, 
Montreal, Canada, to purchase stock of 
Fullerton, Mackenzie & Associates Limited, 
Montreal, and noting that the Board's per-
mission was not required for an alternative 
transaction involving purchase of the assets 
of the Canadian firm. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of Providencia Bank, Burbank, California, into Valley National Bank, 
Glendale, California, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller. The conclusion stated that the proposed merger would 
have no adverse effect on competition. 
Request for trust department examination papers (Item No. 4). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated March 2, 1967, from the 
Division of Examinations relating to a request from Chairman Patman of 
the House Banking and Currency Committee for access to a representative 
sample of examination work papers and reports of recent examinations of 
trust departments. 
The sample requested would consist of 5 sets of 
examination papers and reports of State member banks chosen from certain 
specified deposit categories by each of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks. 

4 
3/8/67 
-10-
(Similar requests had been made of the other Federal bank supervisory-
agencies .) 
The request had been discussed by representatives of the three 
Federal bank supervisory agencies with Mr. Robert Schremp, a represen-
tative of Chairman Patman, in an effort to work out satisfactory 
arrangements that would be less burdensome. On the basis of a review 
of a sample case provided by the Comptroller of the Currency, Mr. 
Schremp indicated that it might be possible to reduce the number of 
work papers previously requested. He asked that similar samples be 
provided by the other agencies. The Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis 
and Dallas had duplicated sets of certain examination reports (open 
sections) and related work papers from which identifying material had 
been deleted, and the Division of Examinations proposed to submit that 
documentation. 
By way of background, Mr. Leavitt noted that in March 1966 
Chairman Patman had requested work papers relating to the most recent 
examination of the trust department of the Cleveland Trust Company, 
Cleveland, Ohio, for the stated purpose of evaluating the competence 
of the System's examiners. In reply the Board stressed its obligation 
to maintain the confidentiality of relationships disclosed by member 
bank examinations and suggested other possible means through which 
information that might serve Mr. Patman
1
s purposes could be provided. 
In August 1966 Chairman Patman renewed his request. The Board reiter-
ated its position on the need to preserve confidentiality and suggested 

874 
3/8/67 
-10-
that the desired evaluation, might be made through study of the report 
of examination of a trust department of an unidentified State member 
bank and the related work papers from which names of individuals and 
other confidential information not pertinent to the evaluation had been 
deleted. That offer was declined by Mr. Patman. 
After further comments by Mr. Leavitt, discussion centered on 
the extent to which preservation of confidentiality might be endangered. 
It was generally agreed that stratification by deposit size within 
districts to the extent requested by Mr. Patman would expose individual 
banks to identification without much difficulty and should be resisted. 
Governor Daane noted that the adequacy of examination procedures could 
be determined on the basis of a small sampling, and Governor Brimmer 
underscored the need to make it clear that the Board would not be a 
party to any arrangement that failed to protect individual banks from 
identification. 
At Chairman Martin's suggestion it was agreed to furnish Mr. 
Schremp the sets of papers described by M r . Leavitt, but with the 
understanding that this was not a commitment on the part of the Board 
to comply more fully with Chairman Patman
1
s request. 
Attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of the letter subsequently 
sent to Chairman Patman. 
Automatically renewable time certificates (Items 5-6). 
There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated March 3, 1967, from the Legal 

H7S 
3/8/67 
-5-
Division relating to an inquiry from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
as to whether an automatically renewable time certificate of deposit 
should be included in "demand deposits" or "time deposits" for purposes 
of computing required reserves during the 10-day grace period permitted 
for withdrawing the deposit. For reasons set forth in the memorandum, 
the Division concluded that such a deposit should be carried as a time 
deposit during the 10-day grace period irrespective of whether the 
deposit was actually redeemed. Attached to the memorandum were a draft 
telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and a draft letter to the 
Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks reflecting the conclusions of 
the Legal Division. 
After consideration of the distributed material and comments by 
Mr. Forrestal in supplementation thereof, unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal of the telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
and the letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks. 
Copies 
are attached as Items 5 and 6, respectively. 
Messrs. Egertson and Forrestal then withdrew from the meeting. 
Check collection system (Item No. 7). In August 1966 banks were 
advised that effective September 1, 1967, items not bearing magnetic 
ink identification of the payor's routing symbol and transit number 
would be handled as noncash items. This change in procedure was aimed 
at minimizing the use of checks not qualified for handling on high-speed 
electronic equipment. The banks were also advised that prior to 

8' 
3/8/67 
-6-
September 1, 1967, and depending upon progress shown toward compliance 
with encoding procedures, further consideration would be given to the 
possible imposition of a collection charge on nonconforming items. 
A distributed memorandum dated February 27, 1967, from M r . 
Farrell referred to a one-day survey made during January at all Federal 
Reserve Banks that revealed that about 3 per cent of the 17.7 million 
items reviewed did not qualify for high-speed handling. Of the non-
conforming items, 35 per cent represented checks drawn by corporations, 
6 per cent represented preauthorized life insurance premium drafts, and 
5 per cent represented municipal warrants. On the basis of this survey 
there was some feeling among the Reserve Banks that the September 1, 
1967, deadline for handling nonmachinable checks as cash items might 
have to be postponed. However, it was contemplated that additional 
surveys would be conducted in April and possibly in June. 
Efforts to eliminate nonmachinable items from the check collec-
tion stream had thus far been directed specifically to the commercial 
banks. There were, however, indications that the banks in some cases 
had been reluctant to exert pressure because of customer relationships, 
and it was suggested that the Reserve Banks should now make a direct 
approach. Of the large corporations, General Motors alone had resisted 
efforts at staff level to bring about the necessary changes to make 
their checks conform to the American Bankers Association coding speci-
fications . 

877 
3/8/67 
-10-
With the over-all problem in mind, the Division of Bank Operations 
proposed that certain additional steps be taken. Attached to the distrib-
uted memorandum were (1) a proposed letter to the Chairman of General 
Motors Corporation from Chairman Martin calling attention to the problem 
posed by the noncompliance of that Corporation and requesting its 
cooperation; (2) a proposed letter to the Presidents of all Federal 
Reserve Banks expressing the view that postponement of the September 1, 
1967, deadline would be a mistake, suggesting that extra efforts be 
exerted to achieve elimination of the nonmachinable checks, and indicat-
ing that the Board would like to have the views of the Presidents' Con-
ference with respect to announcing a charge for such items; and (3) a 
proposed letter from each Federal Reserve Bank President to each of the 
organizations within his District responsible for nonmachinable checks. 
At the Board meeting on March 3, 1967, it was suggested that the 
draft letter to the Reserve Banks be modified to leave to the discretion 
of the individual Reserve Bank Presidents whether to appeal to the com-
mercial banks on which the nonconforming items were drawn or to the 
organizations issuing the checks. It was further suggested that the 
proposed letter be discussed with representatives of the Presidents' 
Conference informally. There had now been distributed a revised draft 
of the proposed letter to the Presidents of the Reserve Banks and its 
enclosure. 
At the beginning of today's discussion M r . Farrell indicated 
that the Presidents were generally sympathetic to the idea of a direct 

878 
3/8/67 
-10-
appeal to issuers of nonconforming items. The view was expressed that 
further staff-level discussions with representatives of General Motors 
would not be productive. 
It was possible, however, that a direct appeal 
from the Board might be helpful. M r . Farrell then described the compli-
cating factors involved in the check-writing procedures followed by 
General Motors. 
Governor Mitchell suggested at this juncture that it might be 
profitable for him to talk tomorrow with Mr. Carl Allen, formerly Presi-
dent of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and now a Vice President of 
General Motors. There was general agreement with this suggestion. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the options available to Reserve 
Bank Presidents with respect to either proceeding through the commercial 
banks in their districts or making a direct appeal to issuers of noncon-
forming items. He noted that in certain instances it might not be 
advantageous to have a Reserve Bank become involved in bank-customer 
relationships. 
In other cases there might be political considerations 
inherent in dealings with State and local governments, and the banks 
would not feel free to bring pressure. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the Reserve Bank 
Presidents could be expected to be sensitive to the relationships involved 
in particular situations. According to the terms of the proposed letter, 
a President would have the choice of proceeding through a commercial bank 
or making a direct appeal to the check-issuing organization, according 
to the President's discretion in light of the circumstances involved. 

879 
3/8/67 
-10-
Unanimous approval was then given to the transmittal of a letter 
to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached as 
Item No. 7. It was understood that the proposed letter to General 
Motors would not be sent pending a report from Governor Mitchell. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation 0 . In August 1966 a proposed 
amendment to Regulation 0 (Loans to Executive Officers of Member Banks) 
relating to charge accounts was published in the Federal Register for 
comment, at which time question was raised by a Boston attorney regard-
ing applicability of the amendment to operations under certain bank 
credit card plans. Subsequent study suggested to the staff that exemp-
tion of indebtedness incurred by executive officers under such plans 
might open the door to evasions of the purposes of the law since under 
the plans in question a cardholder would become directly indebted to a 
bank. Accordingly, the Legal Division recommended modification of the 
proposed amendment so as clearly to exempt credit extended under bank 
credit card plans, within certain limitations. Various approaches had 
been considered, and in the light of the most recent discussion at the 
January 30, 1967, meeting the Legal Division had been instructed to 
prepare additional alternative proposals for consideration by the Board. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 7, 1967, 
from the Legal Division submitting alternative suggested amendments to 
Regulation 0. 
The recommended amendment would (1) exclude from the coverage of 
the regulation indebtedness of an executive officer of a member bank to 

880 
3/8/67 
-10-
any other bank arising under general arrangements for such other bank's 
acquisition of charge accounts or for payments made under its own bank 
credit card plan, and (2) exclude an executive officer's indebtedness 
to his own bank resulting from such general arrangements or plans of 
the bank to the extent that the aggregate amount of the indebtedness 
did not exceed $1,000 and particular indebtednesses did not involve 
any special clearance or approval by the officer's bank. 
The alternative amendment would exclude from the regulation, 
without any limitation as to amount or otherwise, any indebtedness of 
an executive officer to his own bank or to other banks arising under 
general arrangements for the acquisition of charge accounts or payments 
under bank credit card plans. 
At the beginning of today's discussion, Mr. Hackley read a revised 
version of the first alternative that had been drafted by the Legal Divi-
sion for purposes of clarification while not changing the substance of 
the proposed amendment as distributed. He then commented on the two 
proposals. He felt that the approach reflected in the recommended alter-
native would minimize the likelihood of abuse and would not pose serious 
administrative problems. The second alternative was designed to reflect 
the point of view expressed by Governor Mitchell. 
M r . Hackley pointed out that the Board might wish to defer action 
on the proposed amendment until completion of the comprehensive System 
study of bank credit card plans now under way. It was possible that 

881 
3/8/67 
-10-
adoption of an amendment at this time might be interpreted as giving 
tacit approval to such plans. However, such an interpretation would 
not necessarily follow since the amendment would deal with only one 
small aspect of the subject. 
M r . Hackley also suggested that consideration might be given 
by the Board to publication of the proposed amendment in the Federal 
Register for comment, particularly if the Board favored the first 
alternative. On the other hand, such a procedure might not be neces-
sary if the more liberal alternative were adopted. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he would not like to see the Board 
take a position at this time that might permit abuses to creep in and 
that he would, therefore, support the recommended alternative. He saw 
no reason why action need be deferred until the current study of bank 
credit card plans was completed. He inquired whether it was, in fact, 
necessary to include the proposed provision in the regulation. 
Mr. 
Hackley replied in the affirmative, adding that the amendment grew out 
of a 1964 interpretation where the Board ruled that the literal language 
of the statute required prior approval by the board of directors of a 
bank of indebtedness to the bank on the part of its executive officers 
resulting from the bank's purchase of a department store's retail cus-
tomer accounts. 
Governor Brimmer then indicated that his only reservation with 
respect to the proposed amendment was that it did not encompass check 
credit. 

882 
3/8/67 
-10-
M r . Smith (Research) said that this omission also had bothered 
him. He suggested that the proposed amendment might be changed fairly 
easily if the Board so desired. 
M r . Hexter expressed the view that such an exemption would work 
in the direction of overriding the intent of Congress. As he understood 
the amendment under consideration, the purpose was to take care of 
situations in which banks took over masses of charge accounts as a group 
or in which bank credit cards involving no special handling were issued 
to the public. Check credit arrangements, on the other hand, were little 
different from direct borrowing. 
Governor Mitchell said he felt that the Board should adopt a 
reasonable attitude in matters of this kind. Here it was talking about 
banks of such size as to have a credit card plan and about the top 
officers of those banks. It was saying, in effect, that the interests 
of the managers of those banks were so hostile to the interests of the 
institutions as to expose the bank to loss through the improper use of 
a plan of general availability. That was not likely. If it should 
happen, however, the bank concerned could take care of the problem 
effectively. Furthermore, in all of these plans there were limitations 
of general applicability. 
It was difficult to see why the safeguards 
built into the general arrangements should be held as good enough for 
everyone except bank executive officers. 

883 
3/8/67 
-10-
Governor Daane expressed the view that Governor Mitchell had 
made a persuasive case. Presumably a bank could take disciplinary 
action if any problem should arise. 
Governor Brimmer said he had been persuaded by the Legal Divi-
sion's argument that the law required the Board to make some distinction. 
In his view, the Board should stay within the confines of the law. 
In 
raising the question about check credit earlier, he had been trying to 
make the restriction as light as possible and still meet the require-
ments of the law. 
Mr. Hackley noted that there were two sides to the question. 
The law was intended to prohibit loans to executive officers, with a 
leeway of $2,500. The Board had authority to define "indebtedness." 
But with the rapid development of credit card and check credit plans, 
if the Board, in exercising its authority to define "indebtedness," were 
to carve out an exemption that had the practical effect of increasing 
the $2,500 statutory exemption substantially, it could in large measure 
defeat the purposes of the statute to the extent that credit became 
available under such plans. 
Governor Mitchell brought out that the credit cards could be 
used by all bank officers. The purpose of the statute was to prevent 
senior bank officers from borrowing large sums of money for speculative 
purposes. The credit cards had natural limitations that were applicable 
to all cardholders. 

884 
3/8/67 
-10-
Governor Brimmer then repeated his suggestion that the recom-
mended alternative amendment be broadened to exclude indebtedness 
incurred by an executive officer under check credit or similar plans. 
Governor Mitchell said he assumed the other alternative amend-
ment was not out of the question from a legal standpoint, and Governor 
Robertson said he thought it came close. Governor Mitchell expressed 
the view that its adoption would put the Board in a better posture. 
Governor Brimmer observed that more would be known about credit 
card plans as a result of the System study currently in progress. 
The 
alternative amendment recommended by the Legal Division, with the change 
he had suggested, seemed to him to provide a reasonable interim position. 
Governor Daane said he agreed with Governor Mitchell that it was 
not clear why executive officers should be penalized. He did not like 
the recommended draft amendment. However, he would go along with it on 
the ground that the Legal Division felt it went about as far as the Board 
should go. 
After further discussion, it was agreed to publish the proposed 
amendment, in form taking Governor Brimmer's suggestion into account, 
in the Federal Register for comment. 
Members of the staff not concerned with the following topic 
withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Examination of Chicago Bank. M r . Smith (Examinations) summarized 
information disclosed through the examination of the Federal Reserve Bank 

885 
3/8/67 
-10-
of Chicago made by the Board's staff as of October 28, 1966, his com-
ments being based principally on the report of examination and related 
memoranda that had been circulated to the Board. 
After discussion, it was agreed that there were no matters 
disclosed by the examination that appeared to warrant action on the 
part of the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
On March 7, 1967, 
Governor Shepardson approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Letter to Mr. Francisco Silva, Washington, D. C., confirming 
arrangements for him to conduct a course in conversational Spanish 
for members of the Board's staff as an activity of the Board's 
Employee Training and Development Program at a fee of $6 for each 
session conducted. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Transfer 
Ruth W . Eschmeyer, from the position of Senior Records Clerk to 
the position of Records Analyst, Office of the Secretary, with an 
increase in basic annual salary from $6,387 to $6,857, effective 
March 12, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Ella M . Dear, Teletype Operator, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business March 10, 1967. 
Governor Shepardson noted on behalf of 
the Board on March 7, 1967, a memorandum 
advising that Dorothy H . Duke, Secretary, 
Board Members' Offices, had filed applica-
tion for retirement effective April 1, 1967. 

886 
3/8/67 
-10-
Acting in the absence of Governor Shepardson, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf of the 
Board on March 7, 1967, acceptance of the 
resignation of Karelia Ann Gumppert, Editorial 
Clerk, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business March 3, 1967. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Shepardson, 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond (copy attached as Item No. 8) 
approving the designation of Donald W . Brill 
as special assistant examiner. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on behalf 
of the Board a letter to the Director of the 
United States Secret Service (copy attached 
a s
 Item No. 9) agreeing to reimburse the 
Secret Service in the amount of $1,500 for 
each survey of the Protection Department in 
Federal Reserve offices conducted during the 
current year and for such longer period as 
may be required to complete the program. 
! 
R 

887 
B D A R D C3F G O V E R N O R S 
• R THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3 / 8 / 6 7 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 2C55S 
A O O S E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Citizens Commercial & 
Savings Bank, 
Flint, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to July 8, 1967, the time within which 
Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank, Flint, Michigan, may 
establish a branch at 3267 Van Slyke Road, Flint Town-
ship, Genesee County, Michigan. 
As noted in the Board's letter of February 27, 
1967, approving the establishment of a branch by your 
bank, the Board urges that action to strengthen the 
bank's capital position be taken in the near future. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

888 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 10551 
Item No. 2 
3/8/67 
A O O R C 8 8 OFFICIAL. 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
First Bank & Trust, 
Bryan, Texas. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves, under the provisions of Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, an investment in bank premises 
by First Bank & Trust, Bryan, Texas, of $23,118 for the 
acquisition of a parcel of land to be used as a parking 
lot. 
The Board urges that careful consideration be 
given to all means to strengthen your bank's capital 
position and that particular attention be given to 
# 
achieving and maintaining a satisfactory liquidity 
position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

889 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
3/8/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 8, 1967 
International Banking Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letters of January 12 and 
February 24, 1967, regarding your letter of December 22, 1966, which 
requested permission for your Corporation to continue to hold the 
shares of International Trust Company ("ITC"), Montreal, Canada, 
subsequent to ITC's purchase of all the outstanding capital stock of 
Fullerton, Mackenzie & Associates Limited ("FMA"), Montreal, The 
Board's letter of January 16, 1967, granted consent for International 
Trust Company to purchase the shares. 
You state that a technical obstacle under Canadian provin-
cial law has now become apparent which makes it impossible for the 
Trust Company to acquire the stock of FMA, However, you have been 
advised that it is possible to accomplish the same objective by 
Purchasing the assets of FMA rather than its stock and that the terms 
°f the transaction will be essentially the same as previously out-
lined. 
Inasmuch as the proposed stock acquisition will not be 
consummated, the Board's permission of January 16, 1967, will not be 
needed and, therefore, is hereby rescinded. On the basis of the 
information furnished in your letter of February 24, 1967, the Board's 
Prior consent for the purchase of assets of FMA or for the continued 
holding by your Corporation of stock of ITC following its acquisition 
of such assets appears not to be required by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act or Regulation K. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E, Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

890 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F T H E 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 4 
3/8/67 
March 14, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In your letter of January 24, 1967, you requested that 
members of the staff of the House Committee on Banking and Currency 
be given access to a limited but somewhat representative sample of 
examination work papers and reports for recent examinations of trust 
departments. You noted that confidentiality could be maintained by 
deletion or substitution of identifying names. 
Subsequent to receipt of your letter, Messrs. Schremp and 
Geist of your staff met with staff members of the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Board to work out necessary details. As a result of these 
meetings the Federal Reserve System was asked to submit two samples. 
Accordingly, work papers and examination reports for two trust 
departments are being forwarded under separate cover. 
The attached lists entitled "Documents for Unidentified 
State Member Bank" identify the information being forwarded. 
Sincerely yours 
Enclosures 

DOCUMENTS FOR UNIDENTIFIED STATE MEMBER BANK 
891 
Set I 
Copy of last trust department examination report (7 pages). 
Work copy of 1965 examination report (11 pages). 
Copy of Workpapers (24 pages). 
4 pages - Security verification. 
1 
" 
Proof of records, review of minutes, documents and files. 
2 
" 
Review of sundry assets. 
1 
" 
Review of cash deposits and disbursements. 
1 
" 
Recapitulation of 2 employee benefit accounts for own bank 
employees. 
2 
" 
Recapitulation of different classes of trust assets and values 
and accounts. 
1 
" 
Recapitulation of guardianship assets and corporate appointment 
assets held. 
1 
" 
Corporate appointments - coupon paying agency account. 
2 
" 
Trust account asset balance transcripts; also Income Cash 
balances. 
1
 
11
 
Indirect expenses 1965. 
1 
" 
Trust department cash recapitulation. 
3 
Paying agents, interest and sinking funds - account cash 
balances over $15,000 FDIC insurance and requiring pledge 
of assets. 
2
 
11
 
Background information on officers. 
1
 
11
 
Trust department balance sheet for 8/16/66. 
1 
" 
Stock of own bank held in trust department accounts. 
Copy of 136 Line Cards. 
Adding Machine Tapes. 
Examination Scope Memorandum. 

Set II 
Copy of last trust department examination report (13 pages plus 
2 cover pages). 
Copy of Workpapers (65 pages). 
2 pages - Trust examination guide. 
4 
" 
Officer's Questionnaire. 
- Trust ledger control transcript (with adding machine tapes 
attached). 
1 
" 
- Minutes of Board of Directors. 
2 
" 
Reports of Trust Operations Committee. 
1 
" 
- Minutes of Trust Committee. 
1 
" 
- Large principal cash balances 
1 
" 
- Overdrafts. 
1 
" 
- Miscellaneous assets 
" 
- Common Trust Fund asset records. 
5 
" 
Security check exceptions. 
1 
" 
- Corporate insurance exceptions. 
^
 
11
 
- Miscellaneous note exceptions. 
I 
" 
- Trust Department audit scope. 
3 
" 
Resume of Trust Audit Procedures. 
1 
" 
Stock Transfer account transcript. 
^ 
" 
- Confirmations from safekeeping agents. 
1 
Bank cashier confirmation of trust department cash balances 
with bank (with various adding machine tapes attached). 
1 
" 
Trust Department Expense List - 1965. 
Copy of 441 line cards. 
Examination Scope Memorandum. 

893 
Item No. 5 
3/8/67 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
March 8, 1967 
VORLOP - DALLAS 
In reply to your February 23, 1967, inquiry whether an 
automatically renewable time certificate of deposit should be included 
in "demand deposits" or "time deposits" for the purpose of computing 
required reserves during the 10-day grace period permitted for with-
drawing the deposit, the Board has concluded that such a deposit 
should be shown as a time deposit during the 10-day grace period 
irrespective of whether the deposit is actually redeemed. Conse-
quently, in the event that the funds should be withdrawn during the 
10-day grace period, no adjustment of required reserve figures need 
be made. 
This conclusion is consistent with and is not intended to 
modify Board rulings in 1936 Bulletin 419 and 1957 Bulletin 412 
concerning payment of interest on such deposits during grace period. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 

894 
BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 
3/8/67 
S-2015 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T • 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 8, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board of Governors has been asked to consider whether 
an automatically renewable time certificate of deposit should be 
included in "demand deposits" or "time deposits" for the purpose of 
computing required reserves during the 10~day grace period permitted 
for withdrawing the deposit. 
It is the Board's opinion that automatically renewable 
time deposits should be carried as time deposits for purposes of 
required reserves irrespective of whether the deposit is actually 
redeemed during the 10-day grace period subsequent to the date of 
maturity. 
Consequently, in the event that funds are withdrawn 
during the grace period, no retroactive adjustment of required 
reserve figures need be made by member banks for the period between 
maturity and redemption. 
This decision is consistent with and is not intended to 
modify those Board interpretations which held that a member bank 
may pay interest on a time deposit for the period between the matu-
rity date and the date of renewal provided such deposit is renewed 
within 10 days after maturity; but that if the deposit is withdrawn 
within the 10-day period after maturity, no interest may be paid 
thereon for any part of the period subsequent to maturity. 
(See 
1936 Bulletin 419; 1957 Bulletin 412.) 
Very truly yours, 
f \ 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 

895 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
3/8/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 8, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
This letter refers to the System announcement last August 
effective September 1, 1967, checks and other items not bearing 
. Payor's routing symbol--transit number encoded in magnetic ink 
w
U l be handled by the Reserve Banks only on a noncash basis. 
It 
be recalled that this announcement stated that this step was 
e i
ng taken to minimize the use of checks that can not be handled 
J high-speed electronic equipment, and that the possible desirability 
a
 charge for such items would be considered before September 1, 
J^
1
» if in the interim progress toward the elimination of nonmachin-
l e
 items is not satisfactory. 
A 
The Board has noted with some concern that a survey taken 
n
 January of this year, five months after the date of the announce-
showed that the Reserve Banks were still receiving a daily 
C
c
V e r a
ge of over half a million nonmachinable items; and that 35 per 
of these items represented checks drawn by corporations, 6 per 
5
e t l t
 represented pre-authorized life insurance premium drafts, and 
I c e n t represented municipal warrants. The Board recognizes 
^
 a t
 it would be practically impossible for the Reserve Banks to 
a r i (
Ue anything like this volume of nonmachinable items on a 
°
n
cash basis. 
j 
The September 1, 1967, date was selected in order to give 
^ u e r s of nonmachinable checks a year's time to bring their checks 
l i
n e with the specifications of the American Bankers Association. 
b
 n c
e half of that year has now elapsed, the Board believes it would 
e
 desirable to review the situation and determine a course of action 
t 0
 be followed between now and the September 1, 1967, deadline. 
Such 
s V i s i o n seems desirable at this time in order to insure a uniform 
W j
8 t e
m position with regard to objections that have been made, and 
1 1
 be made, about the change in procedure and its effective date. 

896 
- 2 -
One alternative would be to decide that the September 1, 
^967, deadline will be postponed. The Board feels that such a 
decision would be a mistake. Any indication of possible relaxation 
of the September I deadline would seriously undercut efforts now 
oeing made to eliminate nonmachinable items. If anything, the Board 
believes that these efforts should be redoubled because the benefits 
highspeed handling are now even greater than they were last year 
*hen the September 1, 1967, deadline was decided upon, 
Since nearly 50 per cent of the nonmachinable items found 
iri
 the January survey were issued by corporations, insurance 
companies, and State and local governments, the Board believes that 
a
 direct appeal should be made to each of such organizations found 
0
 he still issuing checks and drafts not bearing the payor's 
r
°uting symbol-transit number in magnetic ink. This appeal might be 
made either (a) in the form of a strong request by the Reserve Bank 
resident to the chief executive officer at each commercial bank on 
^hich such items are drawn to bring the matter to the attention of 
J-ne customer of the bank, or (b) by a letter sent direct from the 
^serve Bank President to the organization responsible for issuing 
e
 nonmachinable checks. If the latter course is pursued, the 
fi
oard suggests that the letter might be along the lines of the draft 
^closed. 
In addition, the Board would like to have from the June 
Meeting of the Conference of Presidents an expression of views with 
? G
gard to whether a charge should be made for items requiring 
8
Pecial handling and the amount of such charge. 
Very truly yours,, 
i \ 
Merritt Shermari, 
Secretary. 
^closure 
THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 

897 
March 1967 
DRAFT OF LETTER THAT MIGHT BE SENT BY THE 
PRESIDENT OF EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 
1 0
 CORPORATIONSj INSURANCE COMPANIES, AND STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS 
X N
 His DISTRICT FOUND TO BE STILL ISSUING CHECKS AND DRAFTS NOT BEARING 
PAYOR'S ROUTING SYMBOL - TRANSIT NUMBER IN MAGNETIC INK 
D e
a r Sir: 
My purpose in writing to you at this time is to ask for 
assistance in the efforts of the Federal Reserve System to 
Provide our nation's economy with more efficient and expeditious 
collection of checks. One of the problems complicating these 
G f
forts stems from the fact that checks issued by your organization 
some others still do not bear a sorting symbol encoded in mag-
p i e ink. 
This encoding is necessary to permit checks to be handled 
modern highspeed electronic equipment, and was first sponsored 
n e
arly ten years ago by the American Bankers Association and the 
federal Reserve System. Progress toward the adoption of the encoding 
r
equirements for highspeed handling has proceeded steadily throughout 
these years; by the end of 1966 it permitted the Federal Reserve 
B
anks to handle on highspeed equipment 91 per cent of all checks 
t e
ceived. 
The development of highspeed handling of checks has had a 
tw
°-fold effect. On the one hand it has enabled the Federal Reserve 
S
anks t o 
e x t e n d their closing hours for checks qualified for high-
speed handling and thus give earlier credit for more checks. 
On 
other hand it has meant that checks that are not qualified for 

398 
- 2 -
highspeed handling now require special manual procedures which are 
both slow and costly. 
The Federal Reserve System announced on August 8, 1966, 
that effective September 1, 1967, the Federal Reserve Banks will 
classify all nonmachinable items as requiring special handling and 
w i
l l process them only as noncash items. This change will mean that 
such checks will be credited to the presenting bank (and presumably 
the payee of the check) only after collection is actually ac.com-
PHshed--a process that often requires several days. The August 
announcement stated that the purpose was to minimize the use of checks 
that can not be handled by highspeed electronic equipment. It went 
to indicate that, depending upon progress made in the coming months 
toward elimination from the collection system of checks that can not 
b e
 machine processed, further consideration would be given before 
S e
Ptember 1, 1967, to the possible desirability of a collection charge 
such items. 
The new procedure will mean that after September 1, 1967, 
c
hecks and drafts like those now being issued by your organization 
not be accepted as cash items because they do not qualify for 
the regular machine processing which is now close to universal 
Acceptance. We in the Federal Reserve System would not like to see 
y°ur checks subjected to an outmoded and more costly method of 
Processing. For this reason, I hope that within the next few months 

899 
- 3 -
your organization will be able to conform to the practice of the 
v
ast majority of business concerns and individuals who have already 
m
ade their checks compatible with the specifications of the American 
bankers Association for highspeed handling. 
Sincerely, 
President. 

900 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
3/8/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 8, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of March 3, 1967, the Board approves the 
designation of Donald W. Brill as a special assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
The authorization heretofore given your Bank 
to appoint Mr. Brill as an assistant examiner is hereby 
canceled. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/8/67 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
• * . » • 
March 8, 1967 
Mr. James J. Rowley, Director, 
U. S. Secret Service, 
18th & G Streets, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
Dear Mr. Rowley: 
As you probably know, following an exchange of letters 
regarding reimbursement of the Secret Service by the Board of 
Governors for expenses incurred by your organization in surveying 
the Protection Department at the several Federal Reserve Bank 
offices, members of the Board's staff met with Inspector Bouck 
and Special Agent Lemons on February 27 for the purpose of reach-
ing an agreement on an estimated cost per survey that would be 
fair and equitable as shown by experience to date. Revised 
estimates prepared by your staff corresponded with figures 
independently determined by the Board's Controller and indicated 
that the amount of $1,500 would closely approximate actual expenses 
that might be anticipated. Accordingly, in order not to burden 
you with administrative detail, the Board agrees to reimburse the 
Secret Service in such amount for each Reserve Bank office surveyed 
in the current year and for such longer period as may be required 
to complete the program. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
