MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 14, 1969 

3457 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, November 14, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance^/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics!/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions who had been present 
except Messrs. Axilrod and Ettin of the Division of Research and 
Statistics and Mr. Norwood of the Division of International Finance 
then withdrew from the meeting, as did Messrs. Ring and Morgan, and 
the following entered: 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

o 4 5 8 
11/14/69 
-2-
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Messrs. Maurer and Poundstone of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Discount rates. The establishment x^ithout change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on November 13, 1969, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Cumberland County National 
Bank and Trust Company, New Cumberland, Pennsylvania, with CCNB 
National Bank, also of New Cumberland, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating 
that consummation of the proposed merger (which was merely a transaction 
to facilitate the acquisition of Cumberland County National Bank and 
Trust Company by CCNB Corporation, a newly-formed holding company) 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Foreign banking matter. A letter to Republic National Bank 
of Dallas, Dallas, Texas, granting its request for permission to 
establish a branch in London, England, was approved unanimously. A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 

11/14/69 
-3-
Governor Brimmer, who expected to be away for the next 
several days, referred to a pending application by Republic National 
Bank, New York, New York, to establish a branch in London and said 
that the processing of the application had been held up for some 
time at his request because the bank had consistently exceeded its 
ceiling under the foreign credit restraint program. Cooperation had 
been anticipated after the bank obtained permission to establish a 
branch in Nassau, Bahamas, but it developed that the Nassau branch 
had not yet been established. However, assurances had been given 
that the bank would get under its ceiling and remain there if it 
obtained permission to establish the branch in London, and in the 
circumstances he (Governor Brimmer) had advised the bank, through 
Mr. Norwood, to exercise an option on space for the London branch 
that expired yesterday in anticipation that the branch application, 
now being processed, would be approved. 
Survey of trust department assets. On November 3, 1969, 
the Board considered a staff recommendation that another survey of 
trust department assets of State member banks be undertaken similar to 
the survey made as of December 31, 1968. However, question arose as 
to whether there would be a strong preference within the banking 
community for making the survey as of June 30, 1970, and it was 
understood that further inquiry would be made by the staff. 

3'ltiQ 
11/14/69 
-4-
In a memorandum of November 7, 1969, Mr. Leavitt advised 
that a source within the Trust Division of the American Bankers 
Association had indicated that no strong preference for the June 30 
date was believed to exist and that the banks were more concerned 
about retaining the options in reporting market values that they were 
given in connection with the first survey, namely: as of any one date 
within the last 60 days of the twelve-month report period or as of 
the date of the most recent annual or periodic review of each account 
within that period. Accordingly, Mr. Leavitt recommended that the 
Board authorize making the second survey as of December 31, 1969, it 
being understood that similar surveys of national and nonmember 
insured bank trust departments would be made by the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, respectively. 
On another point that had come up at the November 3 meeting, 
Mr. Leavitt reported in his November 7 memorandum that the other two 
bank supervisory agencies wanted to be able to publish totals held 
by the largest trust departments in the following types of accounts: 
employee benefit trusts, personal trusts, estates, and agencies. A 
source within the American Bankers Association had indicated that there 
was not likely to be any objection to making such data available for 
individual banks. Accordingly, Mr. Leavitt recommended that the survey 
instructions be so worded that banks would know that the data might 
be published. 

11/14/69 
-5-
3 1 « I 
After discussion, the making of the survey as of December 31, 
1969, was authorized, with the understanding that the survey instructions 
would make clear to the reporting banks the types of data that might be 
published. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks pursuant 
to the Board's action is attached as Item No. 2. 
Ceiling rates. Mr. Holland called attention to the fact 
that there had been distributed to the members of the Board copies of 
a letter sent by Chairman Randall of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation under yesterday's date to Chairman Martin of the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board in which Mr. Randall, on behalf of the directors 
of the Corporation, requested that the Bank Board delay action on its 
proposal to increase the rate payable by insured savings and loan 
associations in California, Nevada, Alaska, and Hawaii until after 
the next joint meeting of the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Corporation, and the directors of the Bank Board, scheduled for 
December 3, 1969. Mr. Randall indicated that the directors of the 
Corporation would appreciate additional time to consider the implications 
of the proposal and the limitations that might be imposed on the 
availability of a 5-1/4 per cent, six-month certificate. 
Mr. Holland said that the letter had been written after yes-
terday's joint meeting when the directors of the Corporation became 
concerned about the possible impact of the proposed action. He 
understood that the Home Loan Bank Board had agreed to a brief delay 

11/14/69 
-6-
and that it would be willing to consider any views the Board of 
Governors might want to express. 
The ensuing discussion did not indicate that members of 
the Board desired to inject the Federal Reserve into the matter by 
way of further expression, at least at this stage. 
Foreign credit restraint program. Governor Brimmer reported 
that there was uncertainty and confusion as to the timing of release of 
the revised guidelines covering the Board's foreign credit restraint 
program and the revised regulations applicable to the Commerce Depart-
ment's foreign direct investment program. At issue was the extent of 
relaxation of the Commerce program, and it was understood that differ-
ences of opinion continued to exist. As matters stood, Governor Brimmer 
said, it appeared that the revisions might not be released before next 
Thursday, and he had made plans to return from Europe Wednesday evening. 
Miscellaneous matters. Mr. Axilrod reported on revised gross 
national product figures, scheduled for release shortly, and on a 
prospective Treasury announcement with respect to financing plans, 
while Governor Brimmer mentioned the prospective release of U.S. 
balance of payments statistics. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Johnson, and Axilrod withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Salary of officer at St. Louis. The Federal Reserve Bank 
of St. Louis had requested approval of the payment of salary at an 
annual rate of $25,000, effective November 1, 1969, to Jerry L. Jordan 

*'j 
t 
t * 
11/14/69 
-7-
as Vice President with responsibility for the data processing and 
planning functions. At the Board meeting on October 21, 1969, it 
was understood that the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans would discuss the matter with President Francis when 
it met with him on proposed officer salaries that would become 
effective January 1, 1970. In a memorandum of November 13, 1969, 
the Division of Personnel Administration advised that the Committee 
would like to have the matter scheduled for further consideration by 
the Board. 
Governors Mitchell and Brimmer reported on the Committee's 
discussion with President Francis and on the reservations entertained 
by members of the Committee with respect to the proposed promotion 
and assignment of responsibilities, particularly in light of the 
accelerated pace at which Mr. Jordan had been moved upward within the 
Reserve Bank. At the same time, the Committee noted that the 
responsibility for decisions of this kind resided primarily with the 
directors and top management of a Reserve Bank. Accordingly, the 
Committee recommended approval of the salary rate proposed for Mr. 
Jordan, but with the suggestion that a further effort be made to 
assure that there was an awareness of the doubts felt with regard to 
whether Mr. Jordan was adequately equipped for the assignments planned 
to be given to him. 

3464 
11/14/69 
-8-
In discussion it was suggested that it might be advisable 
for the Vice Chairman to have a conversation with Chairman Peirce 
of the St. Louis Bank before advice of approval of the proposed 
salary rate was transmitted to the Bank, and there was agreement 
with that suggestion. Accordingly, the rate of salary fixed by the 
directors was approved unanimously subject to that understanding. 
(Note: Governor Robertson later talked with Chairman Peirce, 
who indicated that the directors would follow the situation closely and 
that they would be prepared to deal with it if the matter did not work 
out satisfactorily. A copy of the letter s ent to the St. Louis Reserve 
Bank after Governor Robertson's conversation with Chairman Peirce is 
attached as Item No. 3.) 
Study of institutional investors. In connection with the 
current study of institutional investors by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, Governor Sherrill noted that the Commission was using the 
computer of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and that it 
had been ascertained that a certain retrieval program known as the 
Mark IV program would be ideal for purposes of the study. The cost of 
renting the retrieval package for use on the Corporation's computer 
would be $13,250 and the Commission did not have the necessary funds. 
Accordingly, Governor Sherrill recommended that the Board of Governors 
assume the rental cost as part of its contribution to the SEC study 

11/14/69 
-9-
unless arrangements could be made with the FDIC to pay the cost 
involved. 
Governor Sherrill*s recommendation was approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
icretary 

3 \ (i6 
Item No. 1 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
11/14/69 
s^M^iK- 
D r T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
2 1 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
m 
l!IIM- : 
'WWW--
. NOV 14 1969 
Republic National Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission for Republic National Bank of Dallas, Dallas, Texas, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act., 
to establish a branch in London, England, and to operate and maintain 
such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regula-
tion M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before December 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the forn of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board s 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the bal-
ance of payments, the above consent is given with the understanding 
that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will 
be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now 
in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activi-
ties of your bank and Republic International Company, and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Your attention is directed to the enclosed copy of a press release of 
June 4, 1969. 
« 
Very truly yours, 
'{signed) Robert P. rorrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 2 
11/14/69 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF- 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
'•H ;* [[ )&/* ' 
ADDRESS OrriCIAl. CORRESPONDENCE 
' 
U
I
.
V
A
J
V
.
"
>
T
O 
THE: EIUAWO 
November 20, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has decided to ask member State banks to report 
information on their trust assets for the year 1969. 
Comparable 
trust asset information is being collected from other insured Dam<s 
by the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The report form and related instructions are similar 
co those used in the first survey for 1.968, with the only significant 
c b a n b e i n g that information about types of accounts held by 
individual banks may be published. A copy is enclosed for your 
information. Additional copies are being sent to your Bank under 
separate cover. 
Please arrange to send three copies of the report form 
and one cony of the instructions to each 
m e m b e r State bank trust 
department in your District. 
It will be appreciated if you will 
each such bank to complete the report and return two copies to your 
nanl- not later than March 1 , 1970. For control purposes a list 
of ail these member banks should be sent to the Board's Division of 
Supervision and Regulation. 
After you have edited each completed report, please for-
ward one copv to that Division for further 
p r o c e s s i n g 
As .efore 
.difinc should include a determination that the reported information 
nof>ears reasonable and is internally consistent. 
Very truly yours, 
j 
\ c. kr 
A 
/", . i J 
\ 
.) 
Robert P. Forresta1, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 
TC '-III' PR'i;'XDliNTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3468 
B D A R D • 
G D V E R N G R S 
Item No. 3 
11/14/69 
CF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPCNOCNCF 
TO THE BOARD 
November 18, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
P. 0. Box 442, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salary to Mr. Jerry L. Jordan as a Vice President at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, at the rate of $25,000 
per annum for the period November 1 through December 31, 
1969. This is the rate fixed by your Board of Directors 
as reported in your letter of October 9, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
