MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 7, 1972 

1473 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, June 7, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
a t 2:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Division reorganization. Consideration was given to the plan 
f°r reorganization of the Division of International Finance as presented 
i n a memorandum from Governor Sheehan dated June 6, 1972. 
After discussion the Board approved, effective June 12, 1972, 
tlle Plan, official appointments, title changes, and recommended salaries 
a s follows: 
1. Change in title of A, B. Hersey from Adviser to 
Senior Adviser; 
2. Promotion of Robert F. Gemmill from Associate Adviser 
to Adviser, with annual salary at the rate of $35,500; 
3. Promotion of Samuel Pizer from Associate Adviser to 
Adviser, with annual salary at the rate of $35,500; 
4. Appointment of George B. Henry as Assistant Adviser, 
with annual salary at the rate of $26,500; 
5. Appointment of Helen B. Junz as Assistant Adviser, 
with annual salary at the rate of $31,800. 

1474 
6/7/72 
-2-
The following then entered the room: 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Independent Bankers Association. On June 2 and 5, 1972, the 
Board discussed the request of the Independent Bankers Association of 
America that a formal hearing be held regarding the Board's outstanding 
Proposals relating to reserve requirements and check clearance. The 
board's staff had explained to the Association that a formal hearing 
W as not appropriate procedure in the circumstances and had offered 
instead to arrange an informal hearing with available members of the 
Board and key staff. The staff had also attempted to determine what 
Procedures, short of a formal hearing, would serve the Association's 
Purposes. 
In a memorandum of June 7, Messrs. Holland, Melnicoff, and 
°'Connell reported that the Association stood firm on its request 
f°r a formal hearing. The Association had indicated that it intended, 
if necessary, to oppose the Board's proposals in Federal court, alleging 

1475 
6/7/72 
-2-
that their promulgation would constitute deprivation of property with-
out due process of law. Of two possible courses described in the memo-
randum, the staff recommended the one in which the Board would deny in 
Siting the request for a formal hearing; furnish to the Association 
the available statistics in which it was interested and the proposed 
modifications suggested by the Board's staff, which were designed to 
alleviate problems of which banks had complained; and emphasize the 
Board's continued willingness to confer with Association representatives 
at the earliest possible date. A draft letter was attached. 
Comments at today's meeting indicated a preference to discuss 
with the Association the essence of the proposed modifications and the 
range of statistical information rather than to make available documents 
a*d tables. 
Question was raised whether it would be desirable to proceed 
immediately to adopt the proposals, with the modifications suggested 
by the staff, in order that a court that was asked to issue an injunc-
tion could observe that the modifications were intended to minimize 
adverse effects on banks. A consensus developed that, although final 
action should be taken on the proposals promptly, it would not be 
advisable to expedite action further to put the Board in a better 
defensive position; instead, the Board should offer the Association an 
opportunity for informal hearing prior to Board action on the proposals. 

5 
6/7/72 
-2-
Governors Robertson and Daane suggested that it might be 
worth while to consider granting a formal hearing on the ground 
that it might involve less delay than litigation. Governor Robertson 
commented that he was not fully convinced that a court would rule for 
the Board on the merits of the case. Although it was necessary to 
reduce float, it might be contended that some means should be found 
to do so without causing any notable adversity to banks, and that the 
Present proposals placed disproportionate burdens on smaller banks. 
However, the continuing discussion disclosed a predominant view that 
the request for a formal hearing should be denied, and that a letter 
should be sent to the Association indicating in detail the efforts the 
Board had made to give full opportunity to the banking community to 
express its views. It was observed that the letter was being written 
n°t only as a communication to the Association but also to indicate 
to a court that the Board had not been remiss in its procedures and 
had not lacked concern for possible inequities. A number of suggestions 
were made for strengthening the letter. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board unanimously 
S££roved. the sending of a letter to the Association in the form attached 
a s Item No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D D F D D V E R N U R S 
1477 
._ 
df the 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
6 / y / 7 2 
-1rrFft" 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 
20551 
.H.'liiji ' 
i 
. 
ADDfir.88 OFFICIAL COR RF.SPO M OE N CS 
''^Vft^^^sS'•* 
TO THE HOARD 
June 8. 1972 
H. L. Gerhart, Jr., President 
independent Bankers Association of America 
Sox 479 
^wnian Grove, Nebraska 
68758 
D e a r Mr. Gerbart: 
This is in response to your letter of May 27, on behalf of the 
Independent Bankers Association of America, requesting a formal hearing 
° n Proposed changes in the Federal Reserve Board's Regulations D and J. 
The proposals were announced by the Board, after painstaking 
*a'cfcual studies, on March 28, and published in the Federal Register on 
7 r i l 1. Tne official notice set forth the text and purpose of the pro-
posals aild -ailed for submission of written comments by May 15 (see 
3 7 federal Register 6695)„ 
Since March 28, the Board has received and placed in the public 
l>Gcord fhe views and suggestions of hundreds of bankers, including those 
the immediate past-President of your Association. Members and staff 
the Board of Governors and the officers and staffs of the Federal 
<eBerve Banks have held extensive discussions and conferences on the 
Proposals with representatives of large and small banks in many parts 
t^e country. 
(You will recall that key officials of the Board met 
Vltl1 you and other Association leaders on April 17, and urged you to 
J^sent the position of the 1BAA and any information you might: have as 
the effects of the proposals on your members.) The proposals also 
° V g been the subject of extensive press comment. 
The Board's process of information-gathering and of determining 
t n e likely effects of these, proposals has been exhaustive. The cot.rments 
R e i v e d from bankers have been carefully analyzed and weighed. 
Informs 
on relevant aspects of check collection procedures and reserve requir 
^ t s has been collected and appraised. 
The Board appreciates that, as in the case of all regulatory 
atlHes, the current proposals will require adjustments by individual 
9 u k s. 
Such adjustments arc unavoidable if substantial inequities are 

Mr- w. L. Carhart, Jr. 
1478 
- 2 -
t 0 be eliminated and the check collection system modernized in the public 
interest. The Congress has requested that the Federal Reserve take steps 
t o reduce the "float" resulting front the existing system of check collec-
tio», and the current proposals are designed to do this. 
Some of the suggestions that we have received from others would 
alleviate problems which/we understand, are of concern to your members. 
example 
it has been proposed that an additional, reserve classifica-
tion with "somewhat lower requirements be established for banks of medium 
sls5*. A number of our member banks also have suggested that steps be 
to implement the proposals in a series of steps, thus permitting a 
Ctadual. phasirig-in of the new rules. 
On the basis of comments received, the staff has prepared, and 
t h G Board will shortly consider, modifications in the proposals designed 
t 0 ^ s e the transition to the new rules. The Board would consider aadi-
tio*al views from your Association, even at this date - well beyond the 
l % 15 deadline for the receipt of comment ~ if you wish to submit them. 
l f Von feel that face-to-face discus:, ron would be more helpful, we are 
Preparc.d to arrange for an informal meeting of your representatives with 
U V aHable L»ard Members and staff, provided this can be done promptly, 
a t ^ie.h time we would discuss the proposals and possible modifications. 
The Board has considered your request for a formal hearing. 
T h c Proposed changes in Regulations D and J are in the nature of a rule-
T!^ing proceeding, not an adjudicatory proceeding. Rule-making proceed-
in8s are typirally and lawfully conducted without formal hearings; 
Xtlotead the public is invited to submit written comments on proposed 
^gulations. 
In this connection, your attention is called to Section 
j53(<0 or Title '3 of the 11. S. Code that expressly provides that, after 
notice of a proposed rule making is published in the Federal Register, 
a n agency "shall give interested persons an opportunity to participate 
111 tlie rule making through submission of written data, views or argu-
e s , 
v l t h o r vithout opportunity for oral presentation. 
The same 
SOction provides that a hearing shall be held where proposed rules are 
rocluired by statute to be made on the record after opportunity .01 an 
*Reticy hearing; there is no such statutory requirement for a hearing 
3 a this instance. 
The Board believes that a formal hearing in this matter is not 
Q u i r e d by law. In addition, for the reasons previously indicated, tie 
Board considers that a hearing would not materially add to the informati< 
P l i a b l e to the Board in its consideration of the proposals or contribi 
SiSnificaritly to the ability of the Board to act fairly on the proposals 

M r' H. L, Gerhart, Jr. 
1479 
keforoi 5v, Moreover, the holding of such a hearing would unnecessarily 
delay Board action. The Board, therefore, has denied your request for 
a formal hearing 
At the same time, the Board and its staff wish to 
emphasize, their willingness to confer promptly with IBAA representatives 
stand ready to arrange a suitable time for a meeting during the com-
lng week. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
C c : Mr. Howard Bell 
Horace Hansen, Esquire 
