MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 11, 1970 

1771. 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 11, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Plotkin of the Legal Division 
Miss Stockwell and Mr. Stoffels of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
. i : • .. 
i . v > " , 
,. • 
. 
, • 
- 
-
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on 
June 4, 1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing 
schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appro-
priate advice would be sent to those Banks. 

177? 
6/11/70 
-2-
Stock market and margin credit developments. Mr. Stoffels 
reviewed recent stock market and margin credit developments, basing 
his comments on a memorandum dated June 9, 1970, from the Capital 
Markets Section, a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
Investor protection. In a memorandum dated June 10, 1970, 
the Division of Research and Statistics discussed a draft bill, on 
which comments had been requested today, to amend the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 so as to provide greater protection for customers 
of registered brokers and dealers and members of national securities 
exchanges. Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter to the 
Bureau of the Budget expressing support for the creation of a Security 
Investor Protection Corporation, recommending further changes in and 
additions to the draft bill, and commenting on various provisions as 
to which there were unresolved differences between the Government and 
the brokerage industry. Among the observations with respect to the 
latter was the view that the exposure of public funds in providing 
protection to investors, in the form of a $1 billion standby line of 
credit with the Treasury, made imperative the vesting of additional 
surveillance, oversight, and rule-making power in the Securities and 
Exchange Commission. 
Chairman Burns outlined the stages through which work on the 
proposed legislation had progressed, along with the more controversial 
issues that had been debated, and said that the present draft bill 

177? 
6/11/70 
-3-
represented an effort to combine some of the better features of the 
several legislative proposals that had been put forward. An inter-
agency meeting, in which he would participate, was to be held later 
this morning, and he would like to have the benefit of the thinking 
of the Board. 
The initial phase of the ensuing discussion dealt with differ-
ences between the operational scheme of the proposed new corporation 
and the manner in which operations of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation were conducted. Reasons for those differences were given, 
including the fact that the legislation was considered urgent, the 
brokerage industry had available an inspection force, and it would 
take time to bring together a parallel inspection force. The legis-
lation would, however, authorize the establishment of additional 
standards for inspections and for examiners. It was noted, also, that 
in the course of time the legislation could be modified in the light 
of developments. For those and other reasons, it was not believed 
that the FDIC could be used as a precise model in the short run, or 
that the setup of SPIC would necessarily constitute a precedent such 
as to bring about pressure for remodeling the FDIC. 
There followed a discussion of technical aspects of brokerage 
industry operations as related to the protective features of the pro-
posed legislation, after which Governor Robertson expressed the view 
that it would be difficult for the Board to reach an intelligent 

177 4 
6/11/70 
-4-
judgment on the issues involved and take a position within the pre-
scribed time limit. He suggested, therefore, that the Chairman pro-
ceed on the basis of his own analysis. After consideration of 
Governor Robertson's suggestion, it was agreed that no letter would 
be sent to the Budget Bureau. However, Chairman Burns stated that an 
exchange of views would be helpful to him, particularly on some of 
the major issues. 
With regard to control of the proposed corporation, it was 
noted that under the bill, as presently drafted, the board of direc-
tors would represent both the industry and the public, with the 
majority of the directors drawn from the industry. Chairman Burns 
said that his first choice would have been a public body, but that he 
could accept a mixed board of directors if the public representatives 
were in the majority. 
Questions were raised with respect to protection of the public 
interest during any periods when it might be necessary for SPIC to 
draw upon Government funds. One possibility noted was that at such 
times control might reside in the public sector, with a reversion to 
industry control in other circumstances. However, the Chairman 
observed that substantial difficulties might be involved in any scheme 
under which control would be passed back and forth depending on the 
circumstances. 
At the conclusion of the discussion of this issue, other Board 
members joined Chairman Burns in the view that, if it was not feasible 

±775 
6/11/70 
-5-
to establish SPIC as a public body, the public members of the board 
of directors should at least be in the majority. 
There followed discussion of the question whether SPIC should 
be authorized to assess individual firms according to variations in 
the risk of conduct of their respective businesses. It was noted that 
time and skill would be required to work out the complex problems 
involved, and for that reason Chairman Burns expressed the view that 
because of the immediate problem it might be advisable to establish a 
uniform rate for the first several months. It was further noted that 
newer firms probably would be assigned higher assessment rates, which 
led to the comment that that could be another reason why SPIC should 
be under public control, since the assessment rate would be a means of 
restricting entry into the industry. It was pointed out that there 
had been for some time pressures for the FDIC to establish differential 
rates, but that those pressures had to date been resisted. 
Chairman Burns then summarized his understanding of the sense 
of the Board as follows: the objectives of the proposed legislation 
were desirable; the new corporation should be a public body, or at 
least the public directors should be in the majority; and the differ-
ential rate proposal was a cause for some concern, but no concrete 
alternative was at hand. No objections were indicated to the Chair-
man's summary. 

±775 
6/11/70 
-6-
It was understood that members of the Board would transmit to 
the Chairman any additional thoughts they might have on further 
reflection. 
Waccamaw Corporation. Drafts of an order and statement had 
been distributed reflecting the Board's approval on June 4, 1970, of 
the application of The Waccamaw Corporation, Whiteville, North Caro-
lina, to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
shares of the successor by merger to American Bank and Trust Company, 
Monroe, North Carolina, which would be in addition to those of one 
bank already held. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1. 
S. 3699. In a memorandum dated June 10, 1970, the Division 
of Research and Statistics summarized the provisions of S. 3699, a 
bill to clarify and extend the authority of the Small Business Admin-
istration. Attached to the memorandum was a draft report to the 
Chairman of the Subcommittee on Small Business of the Senate Banking 
and Currency Committee. 
Several editorial changes were agreed upon, as well as one of 
a more substantive nature suggested by Governor Maisel. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter in the form 
attached as Item No. 2. 

177? 
6/11/70 
-7-
Several members of the staff who had been present withdrew at 
this point and Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board, entered. 
St. Louis salary structure. Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis approving revised 
salary structures applicable to employees of the head office and 
branches. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Supplemental retirement allowance agreements. In a memorandum 
dated June 1, 1970, the Division of Personnel Administration discussed 
a request from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta for approval of a 
supplemental retirement allowance agreement entered into by the Bank 
with President Kimbrel. The agreement was in form similar to the 
agreements now in effect with other Presidents, and the Division 
recommended approval. 
The agreement was approved unanimously. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Chairman of the Atlanta Bank is attached as Item No. 4. 
In the same memorandum the Division recommended that in the 
case of agreements entered into with any Reserve Bank President who 
assumed office after June 1, 1970, the formula for computing the 
guaranteed minimum retirement allowance be revised. Instead of being 
based on 40 per cent of the President's final annual salary, it would 
be based on 40 per cent of his final average salary (defined to mean 
the person's average annual salary for the five consecutive years of 
creditable service rendered prior to his retirement date during which 

1778 
6/11/70 
-8-
his salary was highest), less 50 per cent of his primary Federal Old 
Age Insurance Benefits, such reduction to be prorated if the President 
had less than 30 years of creditable service. 
In comments relating to the recommendation, Governor Maisel 
traced the history of the supplemental retirement allowance agreements 
and noted reasons why they had been approved not only for incoming 
Presidents who would have short service but for other Presidents when 
it appeared that 40 per cent of final salary would produce a retire-
ment allowance larger than the retirement benefit accruing from their 
years of service. He also noted that in the opinion of counsel it 
would not be feasible to attempt to renegotiate existing contracts. 
After further discussion, the recommended change in the terms 
of future contracts was approved unanimously. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Chairmen of all Federal Reserve Banks is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
Appointment of consultant. Unanimous approval was given to 
the recommendation of the Division of Research and Statistics that 
Professor Leo Grebler of the University of California at Los Angeles 
be appointed as a consultant, with compensation at the rate of $110 
per day, and that a separate contract be entered into with Professor 
Grebler for a study of the markets for housing and housing finance, at 
an estimated cost of $15,365. The Board also approved, for these 
purposes, an overexpenditure of $17,665 in the pertinent account or 
accounts of the Division's 1970 budget. 

1 7 ? 3 
6/11/70 
-9-
V-loan activity. Mr. Cardon stated that a request had been 
received from the House Banking and Currency Committee for certain 
information with respect to V-loan activity over the past five years 
for use in connection with forthcoming hearings on extension of the 
Defense Production Act. 
Mr. Cardon was authorized to furnish the desired information. 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel, joined the meeting at 
this point. 
Subordinated notes. In a memorandum dated June 2, 1970, 
Governor Robertson had summarized discussion by the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation of the Board's outstanding 
proposal that would narrow the category of member bank subordinated 
notes exempt from reserve requirements and interest rate controls. 
The Committee had recommended that the pending proposal be modified 
in several respects. One of the more important modifications would 
raise from five years (as in the pending proposal) to seven years the 
minimum maturity of a nondeposit subordinated note. The longer matu-
rity requirement reflected mainly the view of the Committee that funds 
obtained by means of an obligation of shorter maturity generally were 
not "true" capital funds. It also reflected an effort to mitigate the 
concern of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board that elimination of the 
minimum amount feature (another modification proposed by the Committee) 
might result in flows of funds away from savings and loan associations 

1780 
6/11/70 
-10-
into banks. The bank agency representatives believed that the longer 
maturity requirement would obviate any need for a minimum amount 
requirement. 
Also, whereas the pending proposal contained no requirement 
that the issuance of a subordinated note must in every case be approved 
by the bank's supervisor if the note was to be classified as a non-
deposit borrowing, under the modification proposed by the Committee 
the issuance of a nondeposit subordinated note must be approved by 
the Comptroller of the Currency in the case of a national bank and by 
the Board in the case of a State member bank. 
(Governor Robertson 
had informed the Committee that the Board probably would delegate its 
authority to approve the issuance of such notes to the Federal Reserve 
Banks.) 
Governor Robertson reviewed at this meeting the main changes 
in the pending proposal that had been suggested by the Committee and 
said it would be his recommendation that the Board accept the modifi-
cations. If the Board did so, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion would issue a notice of proposed rule making to incorporate into 
its regulation corresponding to Regulation Q the "promissory note" 
section of Regulation Q, including the changes relating to subordi-
nated notes, while the Home Loan Bank Board would be expected to 
develop an appropriate action to apply the agreed-upon rules regarding 
subordinated notes issued by banks to those issued by savings and loan 
associations. 

1 7 8 1 
6/11/70 
-11-
In the discussion that followed, Chairman Burns explained why 
he would prefer not to remove the minimum amount requirement entirely. 
Governor Mitchell expressed reservations regarding the need for the 
seven-year minimum maturity requirement, and other members of the 
Board presented tentative views. It was understood that the subject 
would be considered in more detail at another Board meeting. 
Vt; . \ 
-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
6/11/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE WACCAMAW CORPORATION, 
Whiteville, North Carolina, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
voting shares of the successor by 
Merger to American Bank and Trust Company, 
Monroe, North Carolina. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The Waccamaw Corporation, Whiteville, 
North Carolina, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant 
^ould become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 100 per cent 
the voting shares of the successor by merger to American Bank and Trust 
c°ropany, Monroe, North Carolina. Applicant presently owns all but directors' 
qualifying shares of Waccamaw Bank and Trust Company, Whiteville, North 
Carolina. 

- 2 -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banks of the State of North Carolina and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 11, 1970 (35 Federal Register 6024, as 
corrected by 35 Federal Register 6161, April 15, 1970), which provided 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 11, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Brimmer, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1784 
i') i 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE WACCAMAW CORPORATION, WHITEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
The Waccamaw Corporation, Whiteville, North Carolina ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of all of the voting shares 
of a new State bank which it proposes to merge with American Bank and 
Trust Company, Monroe, North Carolina ("Bank"). The new State bank has 
no significance except as a means of acquiring all of Bank's shares; the 
Proposal is therefore treated herein as a proposal to acquire 100 per cent 
°f the voting shares of Bank, Applicant presently owns all but directors' 
Qualifying shares of Waccamaw Bank and Trust Company, Whiteville, North Carolina. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banks of the State of 
North Carolina and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the proposed transaction. 

1785 
- 2 -
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States, Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
is presently a one-bank holding company and upon consummation of the 
proposal would become the first registered bank holding company in 
North Carolina. It acquired its lead bank, Waccamaw Bank and Trust 
1/ 
Company, Whiteville, North Carolina ("Waccamaw Bank"), 
(deposits $81 millior^, 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, except for county deposit data, 
^hich are as of June 30, 1968. 

1786 
- 2 -
in January 1970 and Its acquisition of Bank (deposits $48 million) would 
give it control of 2,1 per cent of total State deposits, resulting in its 
ranking ninth among banking organizations in the State. Although 
concentration of commercial bank deposits in North Carolina is high, 
the bulk of this concentration is held by the five largest banks, which 
control nearly 69 per cent of deposits. Waccamaw Bank presently ranks 
tenth among the State's banking organizations, with 1.3 per cent of 
deposits. Consummation of the proposal would thus not result in a 
significant increase in deposit concentration. 
The nearest offices of Waccamaw Bank and Bank are 71 miles 
aPart and neither bank derives significant business from any county 
served by the other. Waccamaw Bank has offices in eight counties and 
it competes principally with banks that are much larger in total deposit 
size or hold a more commanding market position. 
Bank has offices in only three counties. In one it shares 
the county market almost equally with another bank; in the second 
it is one of the smallest of 14 banks with offices in the county; 
snd in the third, its home county, it holds 65 per cent of the county 
Market, which it shares with two banks controlling 29 and six per cent 
the county market. 

1787 
Under North Carolina law Statewide branching is permitted. 
However, in view of the distance separating Bank and Waccamaw Bank and 
the relatively small size of the two banks, the possibility that 
potential competition might develop between them is not believed to 
carry serious adverse weight in considering the application. As has 
been noted, no significant existing competition would be eliminated by 
consummation of the proposal. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any part of the United States and would not 
restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a 
monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - The 
overall financial and managerial resources and future prospects of Bank 
and Waccamaw Bank, and, therefore, of Applicant, are generally satisfactory. 
It is probable that Applicant can more readily raise additional capital, 
if needed, and would be better able to recruit and retain experienced 
middle management than either of the subsidiaries could in the absence of 
affiliation with Applicant. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors thus lend weight 
for approval of the application. 

1788 
- 5 -
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the communities to be served are fairly well provided 
for by existing institutions. Considerations relating to the con-
venience and needs of these communities are consistent with approval 
of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
v • 
' 
. 
, 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
June 11, 1970. 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
6/11/70 
June 11, 1970 
The Honorable' Thomas J. Mclntyre, 
Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Small Business, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors has only a few comments on 
S.3699, the "Small Business Amendments of 1970." 
In general, the Board supports efforts to make small 
business concerns better able to compete for credit from 
private sources. Thus, it favors Title I, section 101, sub-
section (1) of the bill, which extends the classes of lenders, 
with whom the Small Business Administration may cooperate in 
making loans to small business concerns, to include persons 
or organizations not normally engaged in lending activity; 
and subsection (3), which authorizes SBA to make limited in-
terest subsidy grants to small businesses. 
However, the Board feels that subsection (2) of 
section 101 may not adequately protect the interests of small 
business borrowers. Under this subsection, the Small Business 
Administration may, when authorized in appropriation acts, 
extend guarantees on loans which it has not approved in 
advance. In such cases, the lender makes the loan approval 
decision, in conformity with criteria to be specified in SBA 
regulations, and SBA may adopt measures to insure compliance 
with the criteria. The Board recognizes the desirability of 
streamlining the negotiation and approval process, especially 

B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E P M D S S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
. 
J f k »•*''/,.. 
r 
1790 
The Honorable Thomas J. Mclntyre 
-2-
for lenders with years of experience in making loans 
guaranteed by SBA, but it doubts whether the provisions of 
this subsection insure that a new lender, especially a 
person or organization not normally engaged in lending activity, 
will be adequately informed of the criteria at the time it 
approves a loan for SBA guarantee. 
If SBA is unable to guarantee a loan because the 
criteria have not been fully understood, the lender may call 
the loan. With a view to minimizing the number of such cases, 
the Board suggests that subsection (2) of section 101 be re-
vised to provide that the requirement for advance approval of 
loans be waived only for lenders specifically authorized by SBA 
to make loan approval decisions. Thus, a lender who wished to 
make loans under this subsection would first make application 
to SBA for designation as an authorized lender, and approval 
of the application would rest on SBA's determination that the 
lender did in fact understand the criteria governing loans 
guaranteed by SBA. 
The only provision of the bill which relates parti-
cularly to the Board's area of concern is section 203 of Title 
II. This section permits a bank to acquire securities issued 
by a minority enterprise small business investment company 
(MESBIC), without regard to the 50 per cent ownership limitation 
of section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, 
so long as the bank's total interest in SBICs does not exceed 
5 per cent of its capital and surplus. The Board does not 
consider it objectionable for a bank to own all of the stock 
of an SBIC, and hence we have no objection to such bank owner-
ship of a MESBIC. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns. 

' * f^L RE* 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1791 
Item No. 3 
6/11/70 
A D D R E S S O r r i C I A L 
U O R W E S P D N D E N C t 
TO T H E 
B DAW D 
June 11, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Darryl Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
st. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
As requested in your letter of May 14, 1970, the Board of Governors 
'as approved the following minimum and maximum salaries for the respective 
grades of the employees' salary structures at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
• Louis and Branches, effective July 1, 1970: 
Gradj 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
M 
St. Louis 
Louisville 
M i n.__ 
$ 3,360 
3,600 
3,900 
4,200 
4,620 
5,040 
5,580 
6,180 
6,900 
7,680 
8,640 
9,540 
10,560 
11,820 
13,140 
14,640 
Max. 
Min 
Memphis 
Little Rock 
$ 4,560 
4,860 
5,280 
5,700 
•6,240 
6,780 
7,560 
8,340 
9,300 
10,380 
11,640 
12,900 
14,280 
15,960 
17,760 
19,740 
$ 3,360 
3,360 
3,720 
4,080 
4,560 
5,040 
5,580 
6,180 
6,780 
7,500 
8,220 
9,120 
10,140 
11,220 
12,420 
13,740 
Max. 
$ 4,260 
4,560 
5,040 
5,520 
6,180 
6,780 
7,560 
8,340 
9,180 
10,140 
11,100 
12,300 
13,680 
15,120 
16,740 
1.8,540 
Min. 
$ 3,360 
3,360 
3,720 
4,020 
4,380 
4,800 
5,280 
5,760 
6,360 
6,960 
7,680 
8,700 
9,660 
10,680 
11,820 
13,080 
Max. 
$ 4,260 
4,560 
5,040 
5,400 
5,940 
6,480 
7,140 
7,800 
8,580 
9,420 
10,380 
11,760 
13,020 
14,400 
15,960 
17,640 
Min 
Max. 
$ 3,360 
3,360 
3,540 
3,780 
4,200 
4,620 
5,100 
5,640 
6,180 
6,840 
7,620 
8,460 
9,360 
10,440 
11,640 
12,900 
$ A,260 
4,380 
4,800 
5,100 
5,700 
6,240 
6,900 
7,620 
8,340 
9,240 
10,260 
11,400 
12,660 
14,100 
15,720 
17,400 

B O A R D 
or 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1792 
Mr. Darryl Francis 
- 2 -
•V, 
, 
• 
i 
., 
' . 
••••<*'•.• ••' 
. • 
• 
. 
' 
• 
- 
- 
. 
J'> 
• 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees within 
the limits specified for the grades in which their respective positions 
are classified. All employees whose salaries are below the minimums of 
their grades as a result of these structure increases should be brought 
within appropriate ranges within 90 days after the effective date of°the 
new structures. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
1793 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 4 
6/11/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F K I C l A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 11, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Edwin I. Hatch, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Hatch: 
The Board of Governors has approved the contract as 
entered into between the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and 
Presid ent Kimbrel with the understanding that the words "regular 
retirement allowance" as used in the Agreement refer to the 
Normal Retirement Pension as described in Section 5 of the 
Rules and Regulations of the Retirement Plan for Employees of 
the Federal Reserve System, as amended effective January 1, 1970. 
Indicative of the Board's approval, I, as Secretary 
of the Board of Governors, have affixed my signature to the 
Agreement. One executed copy has been retained for the Board's 
files; the remaining three are enclosed with this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures. 

For and in consideration of the mutual promises of each 
party hereto, this Agreement is entered into between MONROE 
KIMBREL and the FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA, Atlanta, 
Georgia. 
Subject to all of the applicable provisions of law, MONROE 
KIMBREL agrees to serve as an officer of the said FEDERAL 
RESERVE BANK as long as such service shall be mutually agreeable 
to the parties hereto. 
For and on account of such service, said FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANK shall pay said MONROE KIMBREL as follows: 
(1) Said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall pay to said 
MONROE KIMBREL a salary at the rate of $45,000 
per annum during the period ending December 31, 1969, 
and thereafter during his service as an officer of 
said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK and prior to his retirement 
his salary shall be as determined from time to time 
in accordance with applicable provisions of law; 
(2) If, having attained the age of 65, said MONROE 
KIMBREL shall retire with not less than 10 years of 
service creditable under the Retirement System of 
the Federal Reserve Banks, and if he is President 
of said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK at the time of his re-
tirement, said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall pay to said 
MONROE KIMBREL after such retirement and during the 
-1-

I 7 9 5 
remainder of his lifetime an amount per annum which, 
together with his regular retirement allowance under 
the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks 
(without regard to optional benefits or conversion, 
or additional voluntary contributions), will aggregate 
a sum equal to 4 0 per cent of the annual salary being 
paid to him at the time of his retirement; and 
(3) if, without having attained the age of 65, said 
MONROE. KIMBREL shall retire with not less than 10 
years of service creditable under the Retirement 
System of the Federal Reserve Banks, and if he is 
President of said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK at the time of 
his retirement, the aggregate sum equal to 4 0 per cent 
of salary referred to in the preceding paragraph (2) 
shall be reduced by the application of the then current 
table of pension reduction factors of the Bank Plan 
of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
and the portion of the aggregate that is payable by 
said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall be the difference 
between the dollar amount represented by such lesser 
percentage of salary and the regular retirement allowance 
payable at the attained age by said Retirement System. 
This Agreement does not obligate the said MONROE KIMBREL 
to remain as an officer of the said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK, and 
3oes not constitute an Agreement by the said FEDERAL RESERVE 
SANK or the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 

1798 
that he will continue in such capacity; it does not obligate the 
said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK to appoint, reappoint, or continue him 
as an officer, nor does it obligate the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System to approve his appointment or re-
appointment or his compensation. 
Witness our hands and seals this 
day of 
ih ? 
, 
1969, executing this agreement in quadruplicate originals. 
rrrrn/sy-' 
MONROE KlipLREV 
FEDERAL-RESERVE BANK'OF rATLANTA/ 
Attest: 
B y f f r Q ^ 
" 
Chairinan o£ the Board of Directors 
Secretary 
The above Agreement has been approved by the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System and in witness thereof, 
the seal of the said Board is attached and its Secretary has 
affixed his signature. Dated at Washington, D. C., this 11th 
day of 
June 
, 19 70 . 
Secretary 
June 11, 1970. 
(Date) 
-3-

B O A R D D F G • V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
1797 
Item No. 5 
6/11/70 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
A D D R E S S 
a r n c i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 11, 1970. 
Dear Sir: 
I n li8ht of the recent changes in the benefits of the Retirement 
U a n for employees and officers of the Federal Reserve System, the Board 
Governors has reviewed the practice of guaranteeing minimum retirement 
incomes to Presidents of Federal Reserve Banks through the use of Supple-
mental Retirement Allowance Agreements and has concluded that such agreements 
made hereafter with future Bank Presidents should be modified in the°followine 
wanner: 
Starting with any President who assumes office after June 1, 1970, 
cne guaranteed minimum retirement allowance should be based on AO per cent 
of his final average salary (as defined in Section 2.15 of the Rules and 
regulations of the Retirement System, as amended effective January 1, 1970), 
iess 50 per cent of his primary Federal Old Age Insurance Benefits--such 
reduction to be prorated if the President has less than 30 years of creditable 
8ervice. 
Current Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks who are not now 
covered by a Supplemental Retirement Allowance Agreement with the Board of 
irectors of their Banks may, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, be 
tiered such an Agreement under the current practice, i.e., 40 per cent of 
inal salary being paid to him at the time of his retirement. 
All other conditions of the Agreements would remain unchanged. 
The Board of Governors believes that with the stated changes, these 
8reements will continue to provide an incentive for the recruitment of 
short-service Presidents. 
A copy of this letter is being mailed to the President of your Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
A l L CHAIRMEN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
