TO 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 7, 1969 

o 1 
i 
O 
) ; I 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, November 7, 1969. 
The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 2/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Money market review. 
The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
At the conclusion of the money market review, 
Governor Mitchell 
withdrew from the meeting. 
All of the members of the research divisions 
who had been present except Mr. Norwood of the Division of International 
Finance also withdrew, as did Messrs. Cardon, Ring, and Morgan, and the 
following entered: 
1/ 
2/ 
Withdrew from meeting and reentered at points indicated in 
minutes. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

341.5 
11/7/69 
-2-
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Noble and Mrs. Duerson of the Legal Division 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Kline and Miss Greene of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Discount rates. 
The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on November 3 and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco on November 6, 1969, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Chemical International Finance. 
A letter to Chemical International 
Finance, Ltd., New York, New York, granting its request for permission 
to issue and have outstanding promissory notes payable to the Export-Import 
Bank of the United States with maturities in excess of one year up to a 
total of $5,000,000 was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
First at Orlando. 
After discussion, the application of First 
at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of First 
National Bank of Melbourne, Melbourne, Florida, was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting the 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
People's Bank of the Union of Burma. 
A telegram to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York authorizing it to open and maintain an account 

3416 
11/7/69 
-3-
for the People's Bank of the Union of Burma was approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
(It was understood that the foregoing account would replace 
the account maintained for the Union Bank of Burma, which ceased to 
exist on November 1, 1969.) 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, and 
Hackley withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Foreign travel. 
The Board approved travel to Paris and London 
by John Ghiardi of the Division of International Finance during the 
period from November 16 to November 24, 1969, to attend a meeting of 
the Economic Policy Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation 
and Development and to meet with officials of the Bank of England, with 
the understanding that reimbursement would be on an actual expenses basis. 
The Board also approved travel by Reed J. Irvine of the Division 
of International Finance during the period from November 22 through Decem-
ber 1, 1969, to visit the central banks of Chile, Argentina, and Uruguay, 
such travel to be undertaken at the conclusion of the meeting in Lima, 
Peru, of the Technicians of Central Banks of the American Continent, 
which meeting Mr. Irvine had previously been authorized to attend. 
Task Force on International Development. 
As recommended in a 
memorandum dated November 4, 1969, from the Director of the Division of 
International Finance, the Board approved a loan of Charles Siegman, 
Economist in that Division, to the staff of the President's Task Force 

3 4 . r 
11/7/69 
-4-
on International Development for a period not to exceed five months 
(ending not later than March 31, 1970), with the understanding that 
the loan of Mr. Siegman's services would be on a nonreimbursable basis. 
Staff appointments. 
The Board approved unanimously the 
appointment of Glenn L. Cummins, currently Assistant to the Director, 
Division of Data Processing, as Assistant Director of that Division 
effective November 14, 1969, with no change in annual salary at the 
rate of $21,589. 
The Board approved unanimously the appointment of Richard S. 
Watt, currently Systems Engineer, Division of Data Processing, as 
Assistant Director of that Division effective November 14, 1969, with 
no change in annual salary at the rate of $21,589. 
In addition, the Board received a report from Governor Sherrill 
on plans being made for the filling, after a trial period, of another 
position of officer rank in the Division of Data Processing. 
Governor Mitchell returned to the meeting at this point. 
Naming of annex building. 
Upon motion duly made and seconded, 
the following resolution was adopted by unanimous vote: 
Whereas, William McChesney Martin, Jr., as a member 
and as Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System since April 2, 1951, has rendered out-
standing service to the Federal Reserve System and to 
the nation, and 

3418 
11/7/69 
-5-
Whereas, it is fitting that his leadership, devotion 
to the public interest, courage, and integrity be recognized 
and remembered in some tangible and permanent form, it is 
hereby 
Resolved that, upon completion and dedication of an 
annex building for the quarters of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, such building shall be 
designated and known as the William McChesney Martin 
Building. 
It was understood that a copy of the foregoing resolution, in 
a leather binder, would be presented to Chairman Martin on an appropriate 
occasion at or near the date of expiration of his term of office. 
In this connection, question was raised about the installation 
of a plaque in honor of Chairman Martin at a suitable location in the 
new building. 
While it was generally agreed that that would be appro-
priate, a decision was deferred pending consultation with the Board's 
architect. 
A question also was raised with regard to the possibility of 
hanging a portrait of Chairman Martin in the Federal Reserve Building. 
However, it was agreed that that question would be held over for further 
consideration after the expiration of the Chairman's term of office. 
Governor Robertson then referred to certain other mementos, 
including a book containing signatures of persons associated with 
Federal Reserve System, that it was planned to present to Chairman Martin. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

M
M 
• B O A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
• r THE 
11/7/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OrriKIAL CORRES9DMDCNCE 
TD THE EJCA*D 
November 7, 1969 
\ 
A 
Chemical InLernational Finance, Ltd., 
20 Pine Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
GentlemenJ 
As requested in your letter cf October 22, 
1969, the Board of Governors grants approval for your 
Co rporation to issue and have outstand?!.ng, in accord-* 
ance with Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
and Section 211.4 of Regulation K, promissory notes 
payable to the Export-Import Bank of the United States 
with maturities in excess of one year, up to a total 
of $5,000,000. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert 
Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

3420 
T
E
L 
i: 
G 
8 A 
M 
I t e m No. 2 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
11/7/69 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S OF T H E F E D E R A L . R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
November 7, 1969. 
WAAGE - NEW YORK 
Re you wire of November 6. 
Board approves opening and 
maintenance of an account on the books of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York in the name of the People's 
Bank of the Union of Burma, subject to the usual terms 
and conditions. 
It is understood that participation in 
this account will be offered to 
other Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL ' 
