Minutes for 
March 20, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 1.0 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1053 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 20, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Messrs. O'Connell, Shay, and Hooff, Assistant 
General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mes srs. Leavitt, Dahl, and Egertson, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Forrestal, Plotkin, and Via of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Alperstein, Golden, and Greenspun of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, Goodfellow, Lyon, 
Maguire, Poundstone, and Rumbarger of the 
Division of Examinations 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 
Mailable to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 

1054 
3/20/67 
-20-
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of America, New York, New York, 
1 
granting consent to the purchase of additional 
shares of Corporacion Financiera S.A., Mexico, 
D.F., Mexico. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
2 
approving the Bank's acting as fiscal agent 
with respect to a proposed bond issue of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
3 
approving the payment of salary to Douglas R. 
Hellweg as Vice President at the rate fixed by 
the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Atglen 
National Bank, Atglen, Pennsylvania, into National Bank of Chester 
County and Trust Company, West Chester, Pennsylvania. The conclusion 
°f the report stated that the proposed merger would have no significant 
adverse effect on competition. 
Branch application. At the meeting on March 13, 1967, the 
Board deferred action on an application of The Detroit Bank and Trust 
Company, Detroit, Michigan, to establish a branch in Harrison Township, 
Macomb County, pending exploration of questions raised by Governor 
trimmer regarding certain competitive aspects. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 15, 
1967, from the Division of Examinations reporting the results of 

1055 
3/20/67 
-20-
inquiries made of Vice President Ross of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago and of State Banking Commissioner Slay. In essence, the view 
of both was that although the case was marginal, approval of the appli-
cation could be justified. The Division reiterated its favorable 
recommendation. 
Mr. Leavitt brought out that both Vice President Ross and 
Commissioner Slay had expressed the view that the establishment of the 
proposed branch would not have any significantly adverse competitive 
consequences and might aid in the development of the area. Also, both 
felt that the proper market to be considered was the immediate area to 
be served by the proposed branch rather than the territory within a 5-
fcile radius. Estimates of the population of the smaller area ranged 
from 3,800 to 4,000. 
On Friday, March 17, Mr. Leavitt continued, Commissioner Slay 
called to say that St. Clair Shores National Bank, St. Clair Shores, 
Michigan, had filed suit to prevent the establishment of the branch. 
He had called merely to inform the Board of that fact and had not rec-
ommended any course of action. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether it was likely that the Board 
also might be sued, and Mr. Hackley observed that a suit against the 
State banking authority would be sufficient to preclude establishment 
°t the branch until the suit was resolved, even if the Board approved 
application. He did not believe the Board need be bound by the 

1056 
3/20/67 
-4-
filing of the suit. In fact, the Board might be vulnerable to criti-
cism if it delayed action indefinitely merely because of the suit, 
because under the Administrative Procedure Act the Board is required 
to act promptly on any application before it. 
Governor Robertson questioned whether the Board should act 
before the State court made its decision, since the Board's action would 
in effect endorse the approval of the application by the State Banking 
Commissioner. The grounds for the suit were not known, he pointed out, 
and the Board might be subject to criticism if it seemed to attempt to 
influence the court's decision. It was generally agreed that the case 
was marginal. He suggested that the Board tell the applicant that 
action was being delayed and then wait a couple of weeks for develop-
ments . 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that, having been informed 
by the Michigan banking authority that the case was in court, perhaps 
the Board should delay action until the suit was decided. However, he 
Would not want to press for that course of action over the objections 
°f counsel. 
Governor Mitchell commented that he could not see any reason 
why the Board should not act; the application was before the Board in 
the normal course of events. 
Mr. Hackley then remarked that, while the Board might be 
"Vulnerable if it delayed action for a substantial length of time because 

6 
3/20/67 
-20-
of the filing of the suit, there would appear to be no objection to 
delaying for a few days in order to obtain more information about the 
complaint. 
Governor Daane agreed that there might be some advantage in 
delaying long enough to receive information concerning the grounds on 
which the suit had been brought. However, he would not want to defer 
action indefinitely, because in its present status the case was within 
the purview of the Board's responsibilities. 
Mr. O'Connell stated that he believed it unlikely that any 
definitive action would be taken on the suit in less than six months. 
However, he thought there would be an advantage to the Board in await-
ing the availability of the complaint so that the allegations would be 
known. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether other members of the Board 
Would object to that procedure, and Governor Mitchell stated that in 
his view the Board should act on the basis of its own best judgment. 
If action was delayed, the implication was that the Board lacked confi-
dence in the System's ability to investigate and evaluate. 
Governor Robertson observed that if the complaint was based on 
§rounds of convenience and needs it would seem appropriate for the 
Board to act on the basis of its own investigation. However, if the 
complaint alleged, for example, prejudice on the part of the State 
G°mmissioner, approval by the Board could have embarrassing implications. 

1058 
3/20/67 
-20-
Governor Mitchell said he could agree with Governor Robertson's 
point if the Board's decision rested on Commissioner Slay's judgment 
and findings. If the decision rested on the System's analysis, he 
thought the Board should proceed. 
Responses to an inquiry by Governor Maisel brought out that 
the Reserve Bank had forwarded to the Board copies of letters of pro-
test from three banks with offices near the proposed branch site, one 
of those banks being the litigant, St. Clair Shores National Bank. 
Therefore, the case for the protesting banks already had been presented 
to the Board. 
Governor Shepardson expressed the view that the staff had made 
a case that, although there was not a strong need for the branch, its 
establishment would be of some benefit from the standpoint of the con-
venience and needs of the community. There apparently was no argument 
against its establishment except that certain existing institutions 
obj 
ected to the additional competition. It seemed to him that, whereas 
a great deal of attention was given to possible loss of competition in 
cases coming before the Board, less attention perhaps was given to 
Possibilit ies of providing additional competition. In the present case 
x t appeared that the protesting banks were trying to preserve their own 
territory, and he would be inclined to approve the application. There 
^ight be justification in waiting to see what allegations were made in 
suit. However, since the Board had a responsibility for considering 

1059 
3/20/67 
-20-
applications on the basis of analysis by its own staff, he thought the 
Board would be in a vulnerable position if it deferred action indefi-
nitely. He did not believe it would be justifiable to defer action 
simply on the ground that a complaint had been registered. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he shared Governor Shepardson's 
views. 
Mr. Hackley commented that, while it might be worth while to 
withhold action in this case for a few days to see what the complaint 
alleged, it would seem unwise to adopt a general practice of deferring 
action on applications merely because a competing bank filed suit. If 
such a practice were adopted and became known, banks might be encouraged 
to file suits as an obstructionary tactic. 
Further discussion developed a consensus in favor of waiting a 
few days in order to study the allegations in the suit, although some 
Board members expressed doubt as to whether that was the proper proce-
dure and indicated that they would not be inclined to defer action for 
m°re than a temporary period. 
Governor Brimmer commented, in this regard, that a brief deferral 
Would afford an opportunity for further inquiry into the matter. He was 
n°t convinced that the investigation by the Federal Reserve had been as 
vigorous and comprehensive as it might have been. In particular, he 
thought the Reserve Bank should have developed more information about 
area involved, and he took exception to the view that the smaller 

1060 
3/20/67 
-20-
area, immediately surrounding the proposed branch site, was the more 
important. He requested the Banking Markets Section to look further 
into that point. 
The matter was then deferred pending the availability of infor-
mation as to the grounds on which the suit had been brought. 
Mr. Hooff then withdrew from the meeting. 
Application of Union County Trust Company. At the meeting on 
March 6, 1967, the Board considered but deferred action on an applica-
tion by Union County Trust Company, Elizabeth, New Jersey, to merge 
with Hillside State Bank, Hillside, New Jersey. The staff was requested 
to conduct interviews on the scene, in collaboration with staff of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in order to obtain additional infor-
mation bearing upon questions raised during the Board's discussion. 
Among other things, the Board evinced interest in ascertaining whether 
alternative merger possibilities appeared to be available that would 
n o t have the effects in terms of competition and concentration of bank-
Il:*g resources that were expected to result from the present proposal. 
Another question related to whether the part played by the applicant 
bank in financing a sale of 36 per cent of the stock of Hillside State 
Bank might have represented an effort to lay the ground work for the 
merger by blocking measures, such as an increase in capital, necessary 
the Hillside bank's successful continuation as an independent 
institution. 

1.061 
3/20/67 
-9-
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 15, 
1967, from the Division of Examinations reporting the results of con-
ferences held by staff members of the Board and the New York Reserve 
Bank with officers of the two banks involved in the proposed merger. 
The memorandum described circumstances attendant upon the sale of stock 
in question and stated that on the basis of the meetings with the banks' 
officers there was no indication that Hillside State Bank was being 
forced into a merger with Union County Trust Company. 
It was brought out that under New Jersey law, banks are prohib-
ited from branching across county lines; therefore, only the banks in 
Union County provided alternative merger possibilities. The memorandum 
set out the circumstances of each Union County bank bearing upon its 
Possible availability for an alternative merger; it appeared that sev-
eral of the banks might present reasonable alternatives. 
Governor Maisel stated that he believed a question of policy 
Was presented, namely, whether the Board should explore the possible 
alternatives before deciding the case. One possible course of action 
would be to say that since there were obvious alternatives, the Board 
would deny the application on the grounds of diminution of competition 
and increase in banking concentration. Another course would be to ask 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York informally to inquire whether any 
the seeming alternatives were real before the Board made its deci-
sion. 

1062 
3/20/67 
-20-
Governor Mitchell suggested that it might be found that none 
of the banks that seemed to be possible alternatives were interested 
in merging with the Hillside bank. Moreover, he questioned whether 
there was a suitable means for ascertaining their attitude. 
In response to an opinion expressed by Governor Daane that 
the Board should not be in the position of soliciting other merger 
proposals, Governor Maisel said that if that was the feeling of the 
Board, he believed the Board should deny the application, mentioning 
in its statement that it appeared from available information that alter-
native proposals appeared to be possible. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the Board should not 
delay its decision. The available information made it clear to him 
that the application should be denied on anti-competitive grounds. If 
the Board made that decision, the Hillside bank might then seek alter-
native mergers, but he did not think the Board should engage in promo-
tion of merger proposals. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the question raised by Governor 
Maisel was one that might arise in any situation in which a particular 
bank applying for a merger was less satisfactory to the Board than some 
°ther applicant would have been. Yet the Board had never followed the 
Procedure of exploring the possibility of alternative applications. 
In response to an inquiry by Governor Brimmer whether he believed the 
Board should follow such a procedure, Governor Mitchell said that 

1063 
3/20/67 
-20-
although his thoughts might have trended in that direction at times, 
he did not think the procedure was practical unless it was supported 
by a statutory requirement that banks advertise and solicit bids for 
mergers. 
Governor Robertson observed that it appeared that the proposed 
merger would result in some increase in concentration of banking power 
and also some diminution of competition. He believed that when the 
Board discussed the case earlier it might have approved the application 
on the ground that those adverse considerations were outweighed by the 
internal problems of the Hillside bank. He had withheld judgment 
because of the question he had raised at the time regarding possible 
ulterior motives for the arrangements made by Union County Trust Com-
pany in financing the purchase by an individual of 36 per cent of the 
Hillside bank's stock. The further staff study had convinced him that 
there were no motives such as to afford a basis for denial. Therefore, 
if the case was to be decided today, he would vote for approval. 
All members of the Board then expressed themselves in favor of 
the application except Governors Maisel and Brimmer. 
Governor Maisel said that he would vote against the proposal 
because of the definite anti-competitive effects that he saw in it. 
If the application were denied, other alternatives might well open up 
a merger of the Hillside bank. 

1064 
3/20/67 
-20-
Governor Brimmer stated that he also would vote in the negative 
be cause of the anti-competitive considerations and because alternatives 
seemed to exist. He did not believe that the Board had a responsibil-
ity to seek out such alternatives and promote them. 
The application of Union County Trust Company was thereupon 
_approved, Governors Maisel and Brimmer dissenting. It was understood 
that an order and statement reflecting this decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration, and that a dissenting statement or state-
ments also would be prepared. 
Application of State Bank of Albany. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated March 14, 1967, from the Division of Examinations with 
other papers relating to the application of State Bank of Albany, Albany, 
New York, to merge with The Emerson National Bank of Warrensburgh, 
Warrensburg, New York. The Division, the Banking Markets Section of 
the Division of Research and Statistics, and the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f New York recommended approval of the application. 
After summary comments by Mr. Egertson and staff replies to a 
number of questions raised by members of the Board for purposes of clar-
ification of certain aspects of the case, the application was approved 
Unanimously, with the understanding that an order and statement reflect-
ing 
this decision would be drafted for consideration by the Board. 
Application of First Wisconsin Bankshares. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated March 3, 1967, from the Division of 

4065 
3/20/67 
-13-
Examinations, with other papers pertinent to the application of First 
Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Waunakee State Bank, 
Waunakee, Wisconsin. The Division's recommendation was favorable, as 
were those of the Banking Markets Section, the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago, and the Wisconsin Commissioner of Banks. 
Mr. Lyon commented on the salient aspects of the application, 
after which there was discussion of points relating principally to the 
factors of competition and concentration. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement reflecting this action would be 
prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Members of the staff not concerned with the following topic 
withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Application of Company for Investing Abroad. On March 13, 
1967, on the basis of an analysis of the policy issues prepared by the 
staff, the Board discussed the application of The Company for Investing 
Abroad, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a section 25(a) corporation, for 
consent to purchase between 20 and 35 per cent of the stock of Balthex 
International, Inc., also of Philadelphia. At the conclusion of the 
discussion the staff was requested to prepare additional materials, 
faring especially on the role of export agents in assisting manufac-
turers in the United States. 

1066 
3/20/67 
-20-
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 17, 
1967, from Mr. Sammons reporting information he had obtained from the 
Department of Commerce regarding the operations of manufacturers' 
export representatives, generally known as Combination Export Managers 
(CEM's). There were about 225 such firms in the United States, exclud-
ing firms that were also engaged in production or trade. About half 
of them were located in the New York area, the rest mainly in seaport 
towns but also in other industrial centers. Over 70 per cent of these 
firms reported annual export sales of less than $1 million, and only 
4 firms reported sales in excess of $10 million. In general, they 
tended to specialize in particular lines, such as foods, steel products, 
automobile products, etc. Traditionally, their method of operation had 
been merely to act as agent for manufacturers in handling export sales, 
usually for a commission. Terms of payment, including any extensions 
°f credit, and prices were usually fixed by the manufacturer. A Com-
merce Department expert regarded the CEM's as an important factor in 
Persuading individual manufacturers to go into the export business. A 
CEM's ability to obtain additional manufacturers to represent was a 
major factor in the success of his operations. 
The memorandum continued by saying that the Department expert 
nad observed that in recent years the CEM s themselves more and more 
had to provide the financing for the export sales they handled, in 
order to relieve the manufacturers of the burden of providing the export 

1067 
3/20/67 
-20-
financing, particularly in the face of a booming domestic demand that 
had reduced the incentive to export. It was not known exactly how the 
financing was handled by the CEM's, but presumably it was done both by 
direct extension of credit and by obtaining bank financing on behalf 
of either the exporter or, more likely, the foreign importer. The 
view had been expressed that tight money and rising interest rates last 
year had made things difficult for the CEM's. Probably most of their 
sales customarily involved payment in 30 to 90 days, and the interest 
cost of supplying credit for that length of time had to come out of 
commission earnings. 
Governor Brimmer noted that his assumption in suggesting that 
the role of export agents be explored was that they played an important 
role in encouraging exports, particularly in the case of smaller manu-
facturers. He had also been concerned that the CEM's were having 
problems in obtaining financing, and had thought it might be useful to 
study the matter with a view to a possible Board policy decision that 
Would clear the way for banks to enter into arrangements with CEM's. 
It was his hope that today's discussion might lead back to that point. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the information obtained 
by Mr. Sammons raised anew the question whether an affiliation between 
export agents and a bank constituted unfair competition with other 
export agents and contravened the purpose of the statutory prohibition 
°f engagement by banks in commercial business. 

1068 
3/20/67 
-20-
Governor Robertson expressed agreement with Governor Maisel's 
point. He thought it was inappropriate for a bank to have an interest 
in a domestic corporation involved in selling abroad the products of 
particular American manufacturers. He believed banks should distribute 
credit on the basis of credit-worthiness and not because the borrower 
had special ties to an affiliate of the bank. In such a situation, 
manufacturers not linked to the affiliate might experience difficulty 
in obtaining bank credit. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that although he was inclined toward 
Governor Maisel's position, he did not have any strong conviction. He 
did not know exactly what further information could be obtained that 
Would help to resolve his doubts. 
Governor Daane observed that he had not participated in the 
Preceding discussion and asked Governor Brimmer to summarize his views. 
The latter replied that the Legal Division had concluded that the law 
did not preclude approval of the application of The Company for Invest-
ing Abroad; whether or not the proposed arrangement should be permitted 
W a s a matter of policy. It was Governor Brimmer's view that as a 
Matter of policy the application should be approved because it appeared 
to him that the business of Balthex was basically the promotion of 
exports. It was easier for him to see a basis for approval than denial. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the basis for denial 
V a s clear, namely, the statutory separation of banking from commerce. 

1 0 6 9 
3/20/67 
-20-
The proposal here was that a bank have an indirect equity interest in 
Balthex. Its profits on that investment would be directly related to 
the financing of the particular manufacturers who were clients of 
Balthex. Carried to an extreme, if Balthex represented only one manu-
facturer rather than a group, it would not be to the interest of the 
bank to extend credit to other manufacturers who applied for export 
financing because competition with the Balthex client would thereby be 
aided and the profits of Balthex correspondingly reduced. From this 
point of view, he believed the proposal was not necessarily conducive 
to expansion of U.S. exports but instead might deter them. 
There ensued a discussion of the areas of operation permissible 
to Edge and agreement corporations under the statute, and the bearing 
uPon those operations of the principle of separation of banking from 
commercial business. Comments were made especially on the basis for 
determining whether or not a particular type of domestic activity was 
"incidental" to an international business. 
Governor Daane then asked if he correctly understood the Legal 
division to hold that if The Company for Investing Abroad were acquir-
ing 
an equity interest in a foreign corporation that was stimulating 
GXports in the United States, the arrangement would be clearly permis-
sible. Upon an affirmative response from Mr. Forrestal, Governor Daane 
said that he found himself substantially in agreement with Governor 
dimmer. If the Board legally had the option of encouraging this 

1 0 7 0 
3/20/67 
-20-
particular flexibility in export financing, he saw no reason to dis-
courage it. 
Mr. Forrestal commented that if Balthex were incorporated in 
England and had an office in Philadelphia or New York, he did not 
beli eve the Board would have any difficulty in holding that its busi-
ness in this country was of an "incidental" character. Although 
Balthex was incorporated in the United States, the Edge Act provides 
for investments by Edge corporations in domestic as well as foreign 
corporations and for financing by Edge corporations of exports or 
imports of goods into or out of the United States. In his view, 
Balthex was conducting an international business and he could see no 
^gal impediment. 
Governor Mitchell said he thought there was some justification 
allowing the Balthex arrangement as an experiment, although at the 
moment he could not see how to reverse direction if the experiment 
aPPeared to be getting out of hand. 
Governor Brimmer said that he too was cognizant of the risk, 
he believed the Board should do what it could to encourage exports. 
If the situation threatened to get out of hand, he assumed a way could 
De found 
to take remedial action. 
Governor Robertson observed that approval of the present appli-
Cation would clearly represent a precedent. While there might be some 
kasis for approval of the application if there was a demonstrated lack 

1071 
3/20/67 
-20-
of financing for exports, it did not appear that such financing had 
been or was unavailable to the extent of constituting any serious 
impediment to U.S. exports. 
Governor Maisel expressed the opinion that the only reason a 
bank would seek to obtain an interest in a domestic corporation such 
as Balthex would be to share in its profits. It seemed to him that 
the real question was not what sort of financing package was put 
together but why the bank sought this indirect equity interest and 
whether the proposal was not of the sort prohibited under the statutory 
Principle of separation of banking and commercial business. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the parent bank of The Company 
for Investing Abroad could operate such a scheme out of its own inter-
national department, which raised the question why the bank should not 
ke permitted to conduct the operation through its subsidiary. 
In response to an inquiry by Governor Daane as to whether he 
saw a risk that the kind of relationship contemplated might become 
Widespread, Mr. Sanctions said he thought there was such a risk. He 
Relieved that in the layman's view the business of Balthex would be 
generally thought of as domestic activity. He would think that many 
exporters could either qualify as CEM's or create subsidiaries owned 
by 
the same stockholders. Almost any activity now handled on a commis-
si°n basis could be placed in a firm that then could be owned by a bank. 
l n essence, his feeling was that there was considerable risk in the 
direction of combining banking with manufacturing. 

1072 
3/20/67 
-20-
Mr. Dahl commented that a question was involved on which judg-
ments could differ. The risks attendant upon a bank's participating 
in this kind of activity had to be weighed against the possible bene-
fits to the foreign commerce of the United States. Although the ques-
tion was borderline, he placed somewhat greater weight on the possible 
benefits to foreign commerce and to U.S. exports in particular, although 
perhaps his judgment was swayed by his experience with balance of pay-
ments problems. As for the chances of expansion, the Division of 
Examinations had pointed out that it was known that one other bank was 
prepared to file a similar application if this one were approved. 
Governor Shepardson asked the Legal Division what recourse there 
might be if the application were approved and such activity threatened 
to expand beyond a point the Board thought appropriate. 
Mr. Forrestal replied that Regulation K (Corporations Engaged 
in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal Reserve Act) pro-
vides that an Edge corporation shall divest itself of any investment 
deemed by the Board to be inappropriate. The Board had never had 
occasion to invoke that provision, and the word "inappropriate" had 
never been defined in that context, but the provision might furnish a 
Vehicle for remedial action. 
Governor Shepardson then said it seemed to him that the pos-
sible necessity of a reversal if the practice became widespread provided 
a clue to the basic issue. If the Board did not think the proposal was 

1 0 7 3 
3/20/67 
-20-
permissible for a dozen institutions, then it seemed hardly permissible 
for the first to propose it. 
Governor Daane stated that the principal favorable argument 
appeared to be that assistance might be given to U.S. exports. It was 
problematical whether or not the device would be helpful for that pur-
pose, but his own evaluation was that it probably would be. As for the 
potential dangers that had been cited, there appeared to be means of 
prevention at the Board's disposal. 
There followed discussion of a suggestion that a survey of 
manufacturers' export financing needs might be conducted, and several 
problems that might be involved in conducting and interpreting the 
results of such a survey were mentioned. 
Governor Brimmer then suggested that the staff prepare a ratio-
nale for approval of the Balthex application by the Board. Other mem-
bers of the Board suggested that it would be desirable to have two such 
statements, one supporting approval and one in support of denial, to 
assist the Board in debating the merits of the two positions. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
Secretary's Note: Pursuant to the recommen-
dation in a memorandum from the Division of 
Research and Statistics dated March 16, 1967, 
Governor Shepardson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the re-establishment of the 
position of Chief of the Consumer Credit and 
Finances Section. 
staff would prepare material along the lines suggested. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1074 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/20/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D N R E 8 P O N O E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 20, 1967. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 9, 1967, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold approximately 1,000 additional shares 
of Corporacion Financiera S.A., Mexico, D.F., at a cost of 
approximately US$80,000, provided such additional shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
« 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved, combined 
with other foreign loans and investments of your Corporation 
and Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, 
will not cause the total of such loans and investments to 
exceed the guidelines established under the voluntary for-
eign credit restraint effort now in effect and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1075 
.""oOf Cow* • 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/20/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 20, 1967 
Mr. F. T. Davis, 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Davis: 
This refers to your letter of March 9, 1967, and enclosures, 
concerning the proposed issue by the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development of its Twenty-Five Year Bonds of 1967, due 
April 1, 1992, in the aggregate principal amount of $250 million. In 
this regard, you state that it is proposed to amend Schedule A of the 
Fiscal Agency Agreement, dated as of February 6, 1950, between the 
International Bank and your Bank to include the bonds in question. 
The Board of Governors approves of your Bank acting as 
fiscal agent with respect to the proposed bond issue, and approves 
the execution and delivery by your Bank of an agreement with the 
international Bank substantially in the form of the draft of 
Supplement No. 31 to the Fiscal Agency Agreement enclosed with your 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

o f g o v L * • . 
1076 
BOARD D F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
3/20/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E 9 P Q N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 20, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary to 
Mr. Douglas R. Hellweg as a Vice President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis at the rate of $18,000 per annum for the period 
April 1, through December 31, 1967. This is the rate fixed by your 
Board of Directors as reported in your letter of March 10. 
! 
, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
