MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 29, 1969 

3992 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Moaday, December 29, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Messrs. Doyle, Greenspan, and Mertz, and 
Mrs. Heller of the Legal Division 
Mr. Ducy of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Burton and Goodfellow, and Miss Greene 
of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 

3383 
12/29/69 
-2-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Minneapolis and Kansas City on 
December 23, by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, 
Chicago, St. Louis, and San Francisco on December 24, and by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas on December 26, 1969, of the rates 
on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would 
be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking matters. Bank of California International 
and Irving International Financing Corporation, both of New York, 
New York, had requested permission to continue to hold their minority 
interests in China Trade and Development Corporation, Taipei, Taiwan, 
after the latter formed a U.S. company to represent it in its 
activities, primarily as agent, in making purchases from U.S. 
sources and sales to U.S. buyers. The question, as discussed in 
a memorandum of December 19, 1969, from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, was whether the continued holding of the minority 
interests would involve an infraction of the provisions of section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act under which Edge corporations are prohibited 
from investing in the stock of companies engaged in the general 
business of buying or selling goods, wares, merchandise, or commodities 
in the United States, or otherwise transacting business in the United 

3984 
12/29/69 
-3-
States except as may be incidental to international or foreign 
business. 
The Division concluded that the limited operations proposed 
for the U.S. subsidiary fell within the guidelines established by 
the Board in two earlier cases where minority stock interests were 
to be acquired in organizations conducting operations in the United 
States. The Board had decided that those operations did not come 
within the statutory prohibition because they were limited to those 
of an agent acting only on firm orders or offers from abroad and 
no inventories were maintained. Accordingly, the Division recommended 
approval of the current requests, although subject to the condition 
that the applicants must be able to supply sufficient information to 
examiners to demonstrate that the activities of the proposed subsidiary 
did not come within the statutory prohibition. 
In discussion of the matter, however, reservations were 
expressed by some of the members of the Board, particularly Governors 
Robertson and Daane. Accordingly, action was deferred and the staff 
was requested to prepare another memorandum spelling out in more 
detail the applicable statutory provisions, their apparent intent, 
and the manner in which the Board had applied them in specific cases, 
along with an appraisal of the objectives that the Board should have 
in mind in dealing with matters of this kind. 

12/29/69 
-4-
International Banking Corporation, New York, New York, 
had requested permission to have aggregate outstanding liabilities 
in excess of ten times its capital and surplus. As explained in 
a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
December 3, 1969, International Banking Corporation had been deactivated 
earlier this year after various investments were transferred to its 
parent bank (First National City Bank of New York) or to other Edge 
subsidiaries of the parent bank. Thereafter, International Banking 
Corporation was left with capital of only $1,000. Many years ago, 
however, the parent bank had placed a deposit of 10,000 pounds with 
the corporation's London branch that had immediately been redeposited 
with the Bank of England, since British banking regulations required 
such a deposit if a banking institution had to have certain trans-
actions, such as letters of credit, authenticated by the banking 
authorities. The London branch, though inactive, continued to have 
certain transactions authenticated for the London branch of its parent 
bank and desired to continue to maintain the deposit with the Bank of 
England. This had resulted in a technical violation of section 211.9(c) 
of Regulation K, Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing 
under the Federal Reserve Act, and the Division recommended that in 
the circumstances International Banking Corporation be granted permission 
to have aggregate outstanding liabilities in excess of ten times its 
capital and surplus as long as it remained deactivated. 

o J d o 
12/29/69 
-5-
At the suggestion of Governor Robertson, who expressed 
some reservation in terms of possible precedent and noted that 
applicant appeared to have the option of correcting the violation 
by increasing its capital in a modest amount, it was agreed that 
the letter to be sent to the applicant would be written in terms 
of an explicit approval in the light of the particular circumstances 
involved rather than in more general terms. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
International Banking Corporation in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
Society Corporation. The Board authorized issuance of 
an order and statement reflecting approval on November 26, 1969, of 
the application of Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of The American Bank, Port Clinton, Ohio. Copies of the 
documents are attached under Item No. 2. 
Broward Bancshares. The Board authorized issuance of 
an order and statement reflecting approval on November 26, 1969, of 
the application of Broward Bancshares, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares 
of the following banks in Fort Lauderdale: 
Broward National Bank 
of Fort Lauderdale; Fort Lauderdale National Bank; and Coral Ridge 
National Bank of Fort Lauderdale. Copies of the documents are 
attached under Item No. 3. 

3387 
12/29/69 
-6-
Seattle Trust and Savings Bank. The application of Seattle 
Trust and Savings Bank, Seattle, Washington, to merge Cle Elum State 
Bank, Cle Elum, Washington, was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement reflecting the decision would 
be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
United Virginia. Reference was made to the decision on 
November 5, 1969, by a 4-3 vote, to approve the application of 
United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, to 
acquire shares of Manassas Bank, N.A., Manassas, Virginia, a proposed 
new bank into which would be merged The Peoples National Bank of 
Manassas, Manassas, Virginia, under the charter of the former and the 
title of United Virginia Bank/Peoples National. 
It was noted that since the date of the Board's action 
a report had been received from the Department of Justice in which 
the 
Department expressed the view that the proposed acquisition 
would have a significantly adverse effect upon potential competition 
within Prince William County as well as more broadly in the State. 
Members of the legal staff expressed the opinion that 
the Board's position would be stronger, in the event of litigation, 
if its statement indicated that the views of the Justice Department 
had been given consideration in connection with its decision on 
the application. 

3988 
12/29/69 
-7-
Thereupon, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was 
agreed unanimously to reconsider the application, with the under-
standing that prior to such reconsideration the applicant would be 
given an opportunity to comment on the letter received from the 
Department of Justice. 
While Governor Sherrill did not object to having the case 
opened up for reconsideration, he expressed the hope that the Justice 
Department would not be encouraged to delay unduly its submission 
of views on bank holding company cases. 
Health insurance guidelines. By letter of October 1, 1969, 
the Board advised the Chairman of the Conference of Presidents of 
the Federal Reserve Banks that it had approved, subject to certain 
exceptions and recommended revisions, proposed Guidelines and Objectives 
for Health Insurance for employees and retirees of the Federal Reserve 
Banks as submitted by the Conference. The Conference had now submitted 
a document titled Guidelines for Health Insurance Coverage that 
incorporated the suggested revisions and also included provisions 
for extension of coverage to surviving spouses and eligible dependent 
children of employees dying in active service. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Division of Personnel 
Administration dated December 15, 1969, the Guidelines for Health 
Insurance Coverage were approved unanimously along with a letter to 

3989 
12/29/69 
-8-
the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks reflecting the action 
taken. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4 . 
Retirement Plan and Thrift Plan. Governor Maisel noted 
for the record that the Internal Revenue Service had approved the 
Retirement Plan of the Federal Reserve System with practically no 
changes and that it had also approved the Thrift Plan for Employees 
of the Federal Reserve System with certain changes to provide somewhat 
tighter restrictions on the withdrawal of funds. Accordingly, the 
plans, as amended to incorporate the changes required by the Internal 
Revenue Service, would go into effect January 1, 1970. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
« 

fr' 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
12/29/69 
A D O H E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
E O P N E S P O ' t D E f J C E 
T O 
T H E 
U C A R O 
December 29, 1969. 
International Banking Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
Nev? York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of October 31, 
1969, to Mr. Frederick L, Frey, Chief Examiner, Federal 
Reserve Bark of New York. In view of a technical viola-
tion of Section 211.9(c) of Regulation K cited by the 
Federal Reserve Examiner in your report of examination of 
August 31, 1969, the Board of Governors grants permission 
for your Corporation to have aggregate outstanding lia-
bilities of up to $30,000, which would be in excess of 
ten times capital and surplus, as long as the Corporation 
remains deactivated. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Ken/on 
Kenneth A, Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 

39< 
Item No. 2 
12/29/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
i 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEk 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SOCIETY CORPORATION, 
Cleveland, Ohio, 
for approval of acquisition of up to 
100 per cent (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the voting shares of The 
American Bank, Port Clinton, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF KANIC STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
C 
!842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Society Corporation, Cleveland, 
• 
. 
f 
Ohio. a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior approval 
°f the acquisition of up to 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the voting shares of The American Bank, Port Clinton, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of Banks for 
State of Ohio and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
. 
Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 
I 

3 9 8 2 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 26, 1969 (34 Federal Register 13681) pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
vi,ews with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°
r
 (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Sank of Cleveland, pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 29th day of December 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
[SEAL} 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
SOCIETY CORPORATION, CLEVELAND, OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE AMERICAN BANK, PORT CLINTON, OHIO 
STATEMENT 
Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio ("Applicant"), a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of up 
to 100 per cent (less directors
1
 qualifying shares) of the voting 
shares of The American Bank, Port Clinton, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
cation was given to the Superintendent of Banks for the State of Ohio, 
and his views and recommendation were requested. The Superintendent 
recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 

any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outx^eighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 
10 largest banking organizations in Ohio control about 45 per cent 
of deposits held by all commercial banks in the State.—^ 
Applicant 
is the fifth largest banking organization and the second largest of 
six bank holding companies in the State. It controls four banks with 
aggregate deposits of $806.6 million, representing 4.1 per cent of the 
total deposits in the State. Acquisition of Bank ($24.5 million 
deposits) would increase Applicant's share of the total deposits in 
the State to 4.2 per cent and would not change Applicant s position 
relative to other banking organizations and bank holding companies 
in the State. 
IJ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect 
oiding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
to date. 

3995 
-3-
Applicant's largest subsidiary bank is Society National Bank, 
which has deposits of $699 million and is the fourth largest bank in 
Cleveland. Xts other subsidiaries are The Springfield Bank, Springfield 
($69 million deposits); The Fremont Savings Bank Company, Fremont 
($22 million deposits); and The Western Reserve Bank of Lake-County, 
Painesville ($16 million). 
Bank, the only office of which is located in Port Clinton, 
Ohio (population 7,900), is the largest of seven banks in Ottawa County, 
and serves an area which extends about five miles west and southwest 
of Port Clinton and eastward to the end of the Marblehead and Catawaba 
Peninsulas. One other bank, with about $15 million in deposits, is 
located in Port Clinton, and three other banks, located about 12 miles 
from Port Clinton, compete in the area described. It does not appear 
that any undue adverse effect on competing banks would result from 
consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
The only one of Applicant's subsidiary banks which has an 
office within 60 miles of Port Clinton is The Fremont Savings Bank 
($22 million deposits), which is located in Fremont, Sandusky County, 
16 miles southeast of Port Clinton. Although no competing banks are 
located on direct access routes between Fremont and Port Clinton, 
neither Bank nor Fremont Savings Bank derives more than a minor amount 
of business from the area served by the other, and no significant 
competition exists between them. This appears to be a result of the 

different etionomic base of the two areas and of natural geographical 
barriers which separate them. Port Clinton is located on Lake Erie 
and is we11 known as a recreational community. Fremont is located in 
an area of very level land of lake bed origin which is primarily devoted 
to agriculture; farms in the area average between 100 and 150 acres. 
Much of the area between Port Clinton and Fremont is swamp land. 
Because 
of these factors, there are no significant commercial ties between the 
two areas. This is to some extent reflected by the loan portfolios of 
Bank and Fremont Savings Bank: 
about 23 per cent of Bank's loans are 
boat loans, whereas Fremont Savings Bank has no significant amount of 
loans of this type; almost 10 per cent of the loans made by Fremont 
Savings Bank are loans to farmers, which constitute less than .5 per 
cent of Bank's portfolio. 
In view of the above, and considering the distance between 
Bank and Applicant's other subsidiaries, it does not appear that any 
significant competition would be eliminated by consummation of the 
Present proposal. The same considerations would appear to preclude 
Q
ny likelihood that such competition would develop between Bank and 
those subsidiaries in the future. 
In evaluating the potential for future competition between 
Bank and Applicant, the Board has also considered the possibility 
that Applicant might enter into competition in Ottawa County through 
the alternative means of acquisition of a smaller bank or establishment 
o f
 a new bank, and has concluded that neither of those courses appears 

39**7 
likely. The population of Ottawa County is only 39,000, and has 
increased only 10 per cent since 1960. Seven banks operate eight 
banking offices in the county, and the population per banking office 
is almost one-third lower than the State average (4,805 versus 6,730). 
Economic growth of the area has also been slow, with a disposable 
income per banking office of $12.3 million versus a State average of 
$19.7 million. No new bank has been started in the county since 1934. 
Port Clinton is the only significant city in Ottawa County, and is 
therefore the only banking location in the county likely to be attrac-
tive to a holding company contemplating an acquisition in the area. 
The only other bank in the city is a subsidiary of a corporation with 
diversified financial and manufacturing interests, and does not appear 
to represent a likely alternative acquisition. 
The data presented reflect that Applicant's acquisition of 
Bank would not eliminate existing competition or foreclose potential 
competition and would have no significant impact upon the degree of 
concentration of banking resources in any relevant market. On the 
record before the Board, 
it is concluded that the proposed acquisition 
would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combina-
tion or conspiracy to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant 
a r
c a . Approval of the application would not substantially lessen com-
petition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
the country. 

39P8 
-6-
Financial and managerial resources £nc|. future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank 
is generally satisfactory. All have competent management. Bank's 
chief executive officer and his wife, who serves as executive vice 
president of Bank, are its principal stockholders. Both are past the 
usual retirement age and Applicant's proposal would avoid the uncer-
tainties which could result from their retirement. Prospects of 
Applicant, its present subsidiaries, and Bank appear favorable. 
These considerations are consistent with approval of the 
present application, and lend some weight in support for such action 
as they relate to Bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the present proposal would not affect the convenience 
or needs of customers served by Applicant's present subsidiary banks. 
In general, the banking needs of the Port Clinton area have 
been served adequately by the banks located there. On consummation 
of the acquisition, however, Bank, drawing on the resources of the 
Applicant, would offer trust services, automated demand deposit account 
reconciliation, automated payroll services, and other services not now 
available locally. 
Additionally, Applicant plans to develop Bank's capacity for 
commercial and industrial lending. The prospects for economic growth 
of the community appear closely related to the growth of the Erie 
Industrial Park, which was established in 1965 on the former site of 
* 

-7" 
j 
the United States Government Erie Ordnance DepcJt* Applicant States that 
there is a need for local commercial financing which would attract 
additional firms to the industrial park. Assistance from Applicant^ 
other banking subsidiaries would be available in negotiating these 
more complex credits and in arranging participations to meet credit 
needs beyond Bank's lending capacity. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community served by Bank provide some weight in favor of approval of 
this application. 
Summary and conclusion, - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board*s judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
December 
, 1969, 

Item No. 3 
12/29/69 
4000 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BROWARD BANCSHARES, INC., 
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through acquisition of at 
least 80 per cent of the voting shares of 
each of the following banks: 
Broward 
National Bank of Fort Lauderdale, Fort 
Lauderdale National Bank, and Coral Ridge 
National Bank of Fort Lauderdale, all in 
Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1)) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Broward Bancshares, Inc., 
F
°rt Lauderdale, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of action 
thereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
a c (
luisition of at least 80 per cent of the voting shares of each of 
following banks: 
Broward National Bank of Fort Lauderdale, 
F
°rt Lauderdale National Bank and Coral Ridge National Bank of 
F
°rt Lauderdale, all in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 

-2-
4001 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
t ? 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. He recom-
mended approval of the application, 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
• < 
i 
Federal Register on September 17, 1969 (34 Federal Register 14487), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
' • " 
' ' h iii/'a 
f y| 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
• 
" 
• 
1 » 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
•il 7 
• 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views hag expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such time shall be extended by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 29th day of December, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting. Chairman Martin and Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A , Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 

4002 
BOARD Gi? GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BROWARD BANCSHARES, INC., FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACTION TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
THROUGH THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF THREE 
BANKS IN FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Broward Bancshares, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Florida ("Applicant"), 
has applied to the Board of Governors pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), for prior 
approval of action to become a bank holding company through the acquisi-
tion of at least 80 per cent of the voting shares of Broward National 
Bank of Fort Lauderdale ("Broward Bank"), Fort Lauderdale National Bank 
("Lauderdale Bank"), and Coral Ridge National Bank of Fort Lauderdale 
("Coral Ridge Bank"), all in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
1/ 
Broward Bank, with deposits of approximately $91 million, 
is located in the original downtown area of Fort Lauderdale. 
Lauderdale 
Bank, located about one-half mile southeast of Broward Bank, holds 
neatly $43 million of deposits. Coral Ridge Bank, with deposits of 
about $46 million, is located approximately six miles northeast of 
Broward Bank in what appears to be the newest and most rapidly 
d e
veloping section of the city. 
Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and have been adjusted to reflect 
oiding company formations and acquisitions for which Board approvals 
a v e
 been issued to date. 

Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
cation was given to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his views 
and recommendation were requested. He recommended approval of the 
application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 
largest banking organizations in Florida, which include 9 of the 
bank holding companies in the State, control approximately 38 per 
Cent of total tank deposits in the State. The three proposed subsidiary 

-3-
4004 
banks, as a group, control less than 2 per cent of such deposits. 
Consummation of the proposed acquisitions would make Applicant the tenth 
largest banking organization and bank holding company in Florida. 
There are 33 banks in Broward County. No bank or banking 
group is regarded as exercising a dominant influence in the county. 
The three banks in Applicant's group, ranking second, seventh, and 
ninth on the basis of total deposits, in the aggregate control 16.5 per 
cent of deposits and constitute the second largest group located there. 
The Everglades Bank & Trust Company, Fort Lauderdale, a subsidiary of 
the State's second largest banking organization, is located in Broward 
County. The largest bank in the county (as well as in the city of Fort 
Lauderdale), on the basis of total deposits in the relevant area, is 
the First National Bank, which has deposits of $161 million. 
Together 
with its three affiliates, it hold 19.8 per cent of total deposits in 
the county. 
The area lying within the city limits of Fort Lauderdale is 
designated by Applicant as the service area of Broward Bank as well 
as of Lauderdale Bank. Coral Ridge Bank's service area is described 
by Applicant as an area rectangular in shape, extending approximately 
one mile east to the Atlantic Ocean, three miles north to McNab Road, 
five miles west to U.S. Highway 441, and two miles south to Sunrise 
Boulevard. This service area lies within the city of Fort Lauderdale. 
The combined deposits of the three banks constitute approximately 
percent of the total deposits held by 16 banks in Fort Lauderdale 

4 
and the group ranks second in the city. As indicated earlier, First 
National Bank is the city's largest bank. Coral Ridge Bank, the 
V 
second largest bank in its service area, holds 21.6 per cent of the 
deposits held by the nine banks located there. 
Applicant states that the three banks in its group have been 
affiliated through common ownership since the opening of Lauderdale 
Bank in 1947 and Coral Ridge Bank in 1958; that both these banks were 
established under the sponsorship of Broward Bank which continuously 
has provided management personnel and guidance to them; that the three 
banks have always operated and publicly advertised as a banking group; 
and that the group's principals have continuously owned over 50 per 
cent of tfce stock* of each of the three banks. According to Applicant, 
Lauderdale Bank was organized as an affiliate of Broward Bank in order 
to provide customer parking and drive-in facilities for customers who 
needed such facilities, Broward Bank being unable at that time to 
obtain adjacent property for expansion to provide such facilities. 
(Branches are not permitted under State 
law.) Coral Ridge Bank, it 
is stated, was organized to gain entry into the fast growing Coral 
Ridge area. Applicant further states that, at the time of the forma-
tion of these two banks, Broward Bank encouraged many customers to 
transfer their accounts to the new banks. 
Broward Bank derives 9 per cent of its demand IPC deposits 
and 22 per cent of its time IPC deposits from the service area of 
Coral Ridge Bank.- Lauderdale Bank derives 9 per cent of its demand 

4006 
-5-
IPC deposits and 19 per cent of its time IPC deposits from that area. 
Coral Ridge Bank's service area, being totally within the service area 
of the other two banks, derives all of its deposits from their service 
area. However, because of the existing common ownership and management 
relationships of the three banks and the active cooperation among them, 
approval of the application would merely place in a corporate struc-
ture a group relationship that already exists and has existed for many 
years, ever since the organization 
of the two smaller banks. 
The data presented reflect that formation of the proposed 
holding company would have no significant effect upon concentration 
of banking resources in the State nor in any relevant service area, 
no meaningful competition would be lessened, and no banking alterna-
tive would be eliminated. Disaffiliation of these banks in the 
foreseeable future and the development of significant competition 
among them are regarded as unlikely. Also it appears unlikely that 
consummation of the proposed affiliation will have any undue adverse 
effect on any of the banks competing in the relevant areas. 
On the record before the Board, it is concluded that the 
proposed affiliation would not result in a monopoly nor be in fur-
therance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area; ard would 
not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
nor in any other manner restrain trade in any relevant section of 
the country. 

4007 
- a -
• . it . t 
Financial arid managerial resources and future prospects, -
bport consummation of the proposal herein, Applicant would commence 
operations as a bank holding company with a net worth of $14 million 
and 
no debt. Its financial condition is satisfactory. 
Its management, 
which would be drawn from the management of the proposed subsidiary 
banks, is experienced and capable. Prospects for the proposed holding 
company would depend upon those of its subsidiaries and, on this basis, 
appear favorable. Each of the proposed subsidiary banks is considered 
to be a sound, well-managed institution with good prospects. The Board 
concludes that considerations under the banking factors are consistent 
-with approval. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - Broward 
County, located on the east coast of south Florida, between Dade and 
Palm Beach counties, is coterminous with the 'Fort .La'uderdale-Hollywood 
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area and ranks seventh in land area 
among Florida's 67 counties. Suburban and tourist needs and demands 
have led to a recent rapid growth of Broward County, On the basis of 
a 1968 estimated population of nearly one-half million, the county ranks 
third in the 
State; and has shown a rate of increase in population from 
1960 to 1968 that is greater than that for the State as a whole. Pros-
Pects for the county's continued growth are regarded as favorable. 
Fort Lauderdale, the largest city in the county and the county seat, 
has a 1969 estimated population of 150,000, It is regarded as one 
the leading tourist centers in the State and one of its rapidly 
Browing cities. Continued growth for the city of Fort Lauderdale 
a
ppears likely. 

4908 
-7-
Applicant states that formation of the proposed holding com-
pany system would result in certain advantages to the subsidiary banks, 
particularly the two smaller ones, in the nature of improved computer, 
accounting, and trust services, larger loan capabilities, better 
resources for raising additional equity capital and other services. 
However, it appears that the communities' needs for banking services 
are being met adequately by the banks in the relevant areas; and that 
the services mentioned by Applicant can be provided within the exist-
ing affiliate relationship. Considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the communities served by the proposed subsidiaries lend 
little, if any, weight in favor of approval but are consistent therewith. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved, 
December 29, 1969. 

4009 
P 
M W & 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
12/29/69 
S-2114 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • H R E S F • D N D E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January-5, 191o. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board of: Governors has aporoved the following Systemwida 
Guidelines and Objectives for Health Insurance recommended'by the Con-
ference of Presidents: 
COVERAGE - FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Objective 
Health insurance plans represent a vital part of the supple-
mentary cor ripens at" ion programs offered to the staffs of the Federal' 
Reserve Banks and their families. To enhance the value of Reserve Bank 
employment in the eyes of staff members and to contribute to staff 
security and stability, the banks' health insurance programs should 
substantially compensate staff members and their dependents for norma] 
risks of hospital, medical and surgical expenses. 
Service retired 
employees who completed five or more years of service, those who re-
t U e d under the 'rule of 80" (including involuntary retirement), 
Isabelity retirees and the spouses and dependents of these retirees 
should also be covered. 
e
 
T o 
rr
'
eei
 this objective, each Reserve Bank is authorized and 
^ncoura&ed to arrange for coverage which includes, but is not limited 
the provisions suggested below. 
Kinds of Coverage 
A
' 
Hospitalization Benefits 
1. Full cost of a semi-private hospital room for 365 
days per year. 
Average semi-private room allowance credited toward 
private rco:n charges. 

3. 
FulL ancillary services including diagnostic 
x-ray and laboratory services when billed by 
and payable to the hospital, 
4. 
Ewecgency accident care as an out-patient. 
5. Fall coverage for x-ray and radiological 
therapy. 
6 . Obstetrical benefits up to ten days hospital 
occupancy for each pregnancy, 
Surgica'J. /Medical Benefits 
Reimbursement of expenses incurred for physicians' 
services, including the charges for: 
(1) surgeon 
and assistant surgeon; (2) anesthesiologist; (3) 
radiologists; (4) in-hospital medical care; (5) ob-
stetrical consultation and care; (6) physical therapy 
and (7) diagnostic x-ray and laboratory services on 
an out-patient basis either in the hospital or doctor 
office, the amount of the reimbursement to be based 
either on a fee schedule or an "administered" schedul 
ur.der which charges have been determined by the 
carrier us reasonable by comparison with the charge 
ordinarily made for similar services or supplies pro-
vided under similar circumstances. 
i l r i c U c a 1 Bona fits 
Major mc-dical insurance coverage: similar to that pro-
vided ur.der the current Prudential policy with the 
following changes; 
1 . The deductible shall be $100 per person par year 
with a maximum of two individual deductibles ot 
$100 per family. 
Coverage shall be made available <;o the eligible 
spouses and dependent children of deceased em-
ployees and deceased retirees. 
(See Part III -
Eligibility and Premium Payments.) 
3. The maximum limit for each covered person shall 
be $40,000 with up to $1,000 of the maximum 
automatically reinstated at the beginning of 
each calendar year. 

Eligibility and Premium Payments 
A
 ' En^?lgZges_t__Spouses and Dependent s 
Employees of the Federal Reserve Banks, their spouses 
and their eligible dependent children* may be enrolled 
under th-. employing bank's basic hospital/surgical 
plan and the System's major medical plan. 
Premiums 
will be. paid two-thirds by the banks and one-third 
by the employees. 
B
• 
oqgj1.9-H. Eligible for Medicare 
Coverage under the basic hospital/surgical plan of 
each Reserve Bank and branch and undei the System's 
major medical plan is available for eligible re-
tirees, their spouses and eligible dependent chil-
dren and for the spouses and eligible dependent 
children of employees who die in active service. 
For 
persons in the following categories, the premium 
costs for this coverage will be paid two-thirds by 
the banks and one-third by the covered persons: 
1. Service retirees**, their spouses and eligible 
dependent children. 
2. 
Special service retirees, who retired under the 
"rule of 80
:
' (including involuntary retirement), 
their spouses and eligible dependent children. 
3. Disability retirees, their spouses and eligible 
dependent children. 
Surviving spouses and eligible dependent chil-
dren oC retirees who qualified under one of the 
above categories. 
:>. Surviving spouses and eligible dependent children 
who are qualified for the insured survivors' 
benefit or who would be so qualified had the sur-
vivors' benefit insurance been in effect at the 
time of the employee's death. 
n i l 
" 
* 
" 
cl'n
 <
?
e r m
 "
C i i
- S
i b l e
 dependent children" refers tc those dependent 
c U l d r e n of the employee or retiree, natural or adopted, who are 
under a^e 19 or, if full-time students, under a^e 23. 
When used in this context, service retirees mean those annuitants 
retired at age 65 with five or more years of service. 

Retirees, spouses and dependent children not eligible 
under any of the above categories nay, at each Reserve Bank's 
option, retain membership in the insured group by paying the " 
full premium themselves. 
• 
' 
?•" 
. ' 
• 
c
• 
Persons Eligible for Medicare 
"Wrap-around" hospital and major medical insurance 
plans have been designed to supplement Medicare. 
The banks will pay the full cost of this coverage 
for persons in categories III-B-1 through III-B-5 
(above) who are eligible for Medicare. 
Retirees w d spouses not eligible under any of these 
categories n ly, at each Reserve Banc's option, retain member-
ship in the insured group by paying the full premium themselves. 
The Board's approval of these Guidelines necessarily resciiv 
its 
letter of Juie 12, 1964 (S-1916, F.R.L.S. par. 200.50), i.e.; 
Hospitalization .itid surgical benefits for active and retired employee. 
^ov.
v
£ver, the Bank-; should continue to submit any proposed significant 
•-iuingos in either the benefits or costs of group coverage negotiated 
^ndev thoff.fe Guide: ines for Board consideration prior to adoption. T'!;i; 
d
°
CG:
 
inf.lude changes .initiated by the insurance carriers entaiUvn> 
:'.v-->ly r inor ncreases in costs or benefits where the Bank is left 
n o
 a)tarnative Uv. to pay the increased rate or withdraw from rrouo 
C OV ' 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
To 
PRESIDENTS OF A LI, FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
