MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 19, 1969 

3839 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Friday, December 19, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room at 
9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: 'Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman^/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Ceiling rates. The Vice Chairman reported information he had 
received to the effect that the Federal Home Loan Bank Board was plan-
ning to announce this afternoon a change in its regulations to permit 
savings and loan associations to offer a 6 per cent certificate with 
maturities from two to five years. 
Subject to final review, he under-
stood, the Bank Board planned to allow the issuance of such certificates 
°nly in denominations of $12,500 and above. The amount that could be 
issued by any association would be limited to 15 per cent of total 
1./ Attended portions of meeting as indicated in minutes. 

3840 
12/19/69 
-2-
accounts; of that maximum 5 per cent could be issued immediately, 
another 5 per cent could be issued in the first half of next year, and 
the third 5 per cent could be issued during July of next year. The 
authority to issue such certificates would expire at the end of July. 
Governor Robertson indicated that he had expressed to Chairman 
Martin of the Bank Board the personal view that the fixing of the 
minimum denomination of $12,500 would be unwise because of the element 
of discrimination between large and small customers and also because in 
his judgment the associations were likely to lose more funds through 
withdrawals from smaller accounts than from the larger accounts. He 
had also expressed the view that it might be unwise to announce a 
specific time limit on the temporary authority, since it was always 
understood that such actions were subject to review and reconsideration. 
Governor Robertson said he had told Chairman Martin that he 
would get back in touch with him after discussing the matter with his 
associates on the Federal Reserve Board. He had also received an 
inquiry from the Treasury as to the likely reaction of the Federal 
Reserve and had indicated that he would respond as soon as possible. 
He had not yet been able to reach Chairman Randall of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation to ascertain the latter's views. 
Governor Robertson went on to say that it was his own tentative 
judgment that if the Home Loan Bank Board took action along the lines 
indicated it would be appropriate for the Federal Reserve to change its 

3841 
12/19/69 
-3-
regulations so as to permit member banks to offer a 5-3/4 per cent 
certificate with maturities from two to five years because as matters 
stood the banks would be under too great a competitive disadvantage and 
funds would move out from them to the savings and loan associations. 
Also, consideration perhaps should be given to using the opportunity to 
move the passbook savings rate up to 4-1/2 per cent, although that 
might create problems for the savings and loan associations. 
Governor Robertson added that he had suggested to Chairman 
Martin the possibility of limiting the issuance of the 6 per cent cer-
tificates to accounts and amounts outstanding on the books of savings 
and loan associations, but that idea appeared to be rejected. 
In response to a question, Governor Robertson made it clear 
that a change in Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, of the kind he had 
mentioned would not contemplate the inclusion of a minimum-denomination 
feature. Nor would there be any reference to a date on which the 
authority to issue the 5-3/4 per cent certificates would terminate. 
There followed a round of expressions by the other members of 
the Board in which the comment was made generally that the report of 
the prospective action by the Home Loan Bank Board came as a disappoint-
ment i If the Bank Board was determined to move ahead, however, the 
prevailing judgment was that action by the Federal Reserve along the 
lines suggested by Governor Robertson would be warranted. Most of the 
members present indicated that they would not be prepared to adjust the 

3S "12 
12/19/69 
-4-
rate on passbook savings at this particular time and that they would 
prefer to confine any Federal Reserve action to a minimal adjustment to 
the Home Loan Bank'Board's announcement. 
(In the initial round of 
discussion one member (Governor Brimmer) indicated that he would not 
favor any action on the part of the Federal Reserve at this time, for 
reasons he had expressed to the Board previously.) 
A suggestion was made that the possibility be explored further 
of allowing member banks to issue a 6 per cent certificate while permit-
ting savings and loan associations to issue a similar certificate at 
6-1/4 per cent, since it was believed that the associations would enjoy 
a distinct advertising advantage if they could offer 6 per cent while 
banks were restricted to 5-3/4 per cent. 
In this connection, Governor 
Robertson advised that he understood the Home Loan Bank Board would be 
opposed to moving as high as 6-1/4 per cent. 
Mr. Holland then reported his understanding of the views of 
Governor Mitchell as follows: 
If the Home Loan Bank Board were to agree 
to allow savings and loan associations to issue the 6 per cent certif-
icates only to existing shareholders up to the maximum of existing 
shareholdings, he would be agreeable to taking no Regulation Q action 
for a little while. Otherwise, he would favor permitting member banks 
to issue certificates of comparable maturity at 5-3/4 per cent with no 
minimum denomination. 
He would not want to change the maximum passbook 
savings rate at this juncture. 

o R 4 3 
12/19/69 
-5-
At the suggestion of Governor Maisel, a poll was taken at this 
point on the question whether the Board members would be willing to 
have the Federal Reserve stand still for at least the next two or three 
weeks if the Home Loan Bank Board would agree to permit savings and loan 
associations to sell the proposed 6 per cent certificates only to those 
who were shareholders as of a certain date, such as December 15, and up 
to the amount of their shareholdings on that date. There developed to 
be unanimous agreement on that point. 
If the Bank Board was not willing to include such a restriction, 
it appeared to be the prevailing view that Federal Reserve action of 
the type originally outlined by Governor Robertson would be warranted. 
Some members, however, felt that the possibility of adjustment into a 
relationship of 6 per cent for banks and 6-1/4 per cent for savings and 
loan associations should be pursued. 
In response to a question, Governor Robertson said he understood 
the Home Loan Bank Board contemplated that in the event of repayment of 
the certificate prior to maturity the penalty would be a reversion to 
the rate of interest applicable to passbook accounts. There followed 
some discussion as to whether a similar penalty should attach to prema-
ture redemption of certificates that banks might be authorized to 
issue; at the conclusion of the discussion Governor Robertson expressed 
the opinion that the point was not of sufficient importance to warrant 
a change in present Regulation Q requirements. 

3844 
12/19/69 
-6-
Governor Robertson then indicated that he would talk further 
with Chairman Martin of the Home Loan Bank Board in the light of 
today's discussion and that he would also make another effort to 
reach Chairman Randall. 
Governor Robertson then withdrew from the meeting. 
Labor Relations Panel. 
The Board's Policy on Unionization and 
Collective Bargaining for the Federal Reserve Banks provided for the 
establishment of a Labor Relations Panel consisting of two Board 
members and one public member, all of whom were to be selected by the 
Boardo 
Pursuant to the recommendation contained in a memorandum from 
the Division of Personnel Administration dated December 8, 1969, which 
recommendation was supported by Governor Sherrill, the Board approved 
unanimously, effective January 1, 1970, the appointment of Mr. William 
E. Simkin as the public member of the Labor Relations Panel with compen-
sation at the rate of $100 per day while engaged in panel-related ser-
vice, plus transportation expenses and per diem in accordance with the 
Board's travel regulations. 
Fee for Judge Piercec 
Governor Sherrill referred to the 
previous understanding that the compensation paid to Judge Samuel R. 
Pierce, Jr., for his services as consultant in connection with the 
formulation of the Board's Policy on Unionization and Collective 
Bargaining for the Federal Reserve Banks would be at the rate of $200 
per day. 
It now developed, however, that Judge Pierce had submitted a 

m 
i s 
12/19/69 
-7-
bill based on hourly rates for himself and an assistant plus necessary 
incidental expenses. 
The bill, computed on that basis, was in the 
total amount of $15,260, but Judge Pierce had rounded it off to 
$15,000. 
He had further indicated that although in his opinion such a 
bill was fair, he would abide by the Board's decision,, 
After Governor Sherrill expressed the opinion that the 
services of Judge Pierce had been worth $15,000, members of the Board 
indicated that they would be satisfied with whatever disposition was 
made of the matter by Governor Sherrill in his best judgment, and 
accordingly the matter was referred to him with power to act. 
Governor Sherrill indicated that he would confer further with Judge 
Pierce, that he might endeavor to arrange an amended contract, and that 
he probably would then return to the Board. 
Members of the staff concerned with the presentation of the 
proposed Board budget for 1970 entered the room at this point. 
Board budget. Consideration of the proposed Board budget for 
1970 continued at this time with a presentation on behalf of the 
Division of International Finance highlighting areas of research that 
the Division proposed to emphasize during the year. 
During the course of the presentation the meeting recessed in 
order to permit those present to participate in a function related to 
the Board's Christmas program. 
The meeting reconvened at 11:20 a.m. 
with Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill present 
and limited staff attendance. 

3846 
12/19/69 
-8-
Ceiling rates. Governor Robertson reported that Chairman 
Martin of the Home Loan Bank Board was now inclined to go along with 
the idea of limiting sales of the proposed new 6 per cent certificates 
by savings and loan associations to holders of existing accounts. 
Mr. Martin was to call back when a final decision had been made. 
It 
was clear, however, that Chairman Martin did not favor allowing savings 
and loans to issue the certificates at 6-1/4 per cent while banks were 
permitted to offer them at 6 per cent. On the other hand, Chairman 
Randall of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation strongly preferred 
an arrangement of that kind; it appeared that he and the Comptroller 
of the Currency felt there should actually be parity in the regulations 
applicable to banks and savings and loan associations, and at the very 
least Mr. Randall felt there must be parity for mutual savings banks. 
Governor Robertson also said that Chairman Randall had asked 
for a meeting with the Federal Reserve Board. However, he had indicated 
to Mr. Randall that he could see little reason for such a meeting, 
particularly since the Treasury had now requested that a meeting of 
the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation be held at 
the Treasury at noon. Although he had some reservations about the 
appropriateness of the calling of such a meeting by the Treasury, 
Governor Robertson felt he had little choice but to attend. His inten-
tion, he said, would be to take a position based on the sense of the 
Board, as indicated earlier today, and then to report back. He added 

3847 
12/19/69 
-9-
that at the noon meeting he would take no position that would in any 
sense be binding upon the Board. 
There was general agreement with Governor Robertson's comments 
as to the attitude he proposed to take. 
It was noted, however, that 
much would seem to depend on the position taken at the meeting by 
Chairman Randall. 
In response to questions, Governor Robertson said 
he had told Mr. Randall that in his opinion it would be unwise for the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to take action to change the 
regulations applicable to nonmember insured banks, particularly along 
the 1 ines that Mr. Randall apparently had in mind, and that any such 
move must be taken on the Corporation's own responsibility since he 
did not believe that the Federal Reserve would permit itself to be 
forced into changing the regulations applicable to member banks in 
similar fashion. 
In this connection, one member (Governor Maisel) commented that 
in his judgment a move to try to force commercial banks to parity with 
the savings and loans was simply not logical and that he would not 
vote for any such move on the part of the Federal Reserve. On the 
other hand, he agreed that mutual savings banks probably should go to 
parity. Another member (Governor Brimmer) noted that he had previously 
registered an opinion based on his understanding of the move that the 
Home Loan Bank Board was contemplating, but that he would want to take 
another look at his own position depending on where Chairman Randall 
finally came out. 

3ma 
12/19/69 
-10-
Governor Brimmer also referred to the provisions for inter-
agency consultation included in the statute and expressed some doubt 
as to whether one of the agencies (the Home Loan Bank Board) was 
following the spirit of the statute if it attempted to force unilat-
erally a move that the other agencies on balance did not favor. He 
noted that one possibility might be to request a Presidential decision 
through the Secretary of the Treasury and the heads of the respective 
agencies. However, it was the general view that such a course of action 
would be inadvisable, particularly inasmuch as it would involve the risk 
of having actions prescribed for the agencies, including the Federal 
Reserve, at the Presidential level. 
Governor Robertson then withdrew from the meeting, repeating 
before he left that he would take no position at the Coordinating 
Committee meeting that would be binding upon the Board. 
Board budget. Membe rs of the staff concerned with the presen-
tation of the proposed Board budget for 1970 returned to the room at 
this point and the presentation on behalf of the Division of Interna-
tional Finance concluded with a discussion during the course of which 
members of the Board expressed their views on Division programs that 
in their opinion should be either reinforced or deemphasized. 
In the latter stages of the discussion with regard to the 
Division of International Finance, Governor Robertson returned to the 
meeting and, at his request, the other members met with him briefly 

3849 
12/19/69 
-11-
outside the room. The other members then returned and the meeting 
resumed with a budget presentation on behalf of the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation. 
It was noted, among other things, that there had inadvertently 
been omitted from the program-in-place budget a provision for the cost 
(estimated at $100,000) for a second survey, in connection with the 
truth in lending program, of consumer awareness of credit terms. 
There were some suggestions, for consideration by the staff, with 
regard to possible remodeling of the survey, and it was understood 
that the Board would consider at another meeting what, if any, budget 
provision should be made at this time. 
Also, it was suggested that the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation explore with the Federal Reserve Banks assumption by the 
latter of some part of the cost of the program for the training of 
bank examining personnel in electronic data processing techniques. 
Finally, it was noted that in a footnote to the proposed 
capability budget funds had been provided for the enlargement of staff 
in order to take care of the anticipated volume of work in the area of 
one-bank holding companies, parts of such funds being allocated to the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation, the Division of Research and 
Statistics, and the Legal Division, respectively. 
There was an under-
standing that the approval of such funds for budget purposes should 
not necessarily be taken to reflect agreement on the nature of the 

12/19/69 
-12-
organizational structure best suited for the discharge of such 
responsibilities, and Governor Sherrill indicated that a paper 
dealing with the organizational issues would be presented to the 
Board shortly. 
The presentation that followed with respect to the proposed 
budget of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations was 
marked by a discussion during which interest was expressed at 
Board level in the establishment of a framework for the providing 
of information that would enable the Board to appraise more effec-
tively the performance of the Federal Reserve Banks in conducting 
their operations. Governor Sherrill indicated that the subject 
appeared to lend itself to the preparation of an issue paper dealing 
generally with the adequacy of the Board's supervision of operations 
of the Reserve Banks. A Board member also suggested the possible 
establishment in the Division of a mechanism that would aid the 
Board in the process of selecting directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks and branches. 
Finally, it was pointed out that the proposed budget of the 
Division did not include provision for the cost of architectural 
consulting services, the securing of which was currently in process 
of negotiation. 
In connection with the presentation of the proposed budget 
of the Division of Personnel Administration, a Board member com-
mented that questions relating to the adequacy of personnel 

H
P 
3851 
12/19/69 
-13-
resources in relation to the total Board program might lend them-
selves to the preparation of an issue paper. He also commented 
that he did not see in the Personnel Division's budget provisions 
for adequate implementation of the equal employment opportunity 
program, nor did he sense that sufficient provision had been made 
for aiding employees to obtain additional education or for other 
techniques to facilitate the upgrading of employees. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened at 2:00 p.m. with 
Governors Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill present and appro-
priate staff attendance. 
Board budget. Discussion of the proposed budget of the 
Division of Personnel Administration continued with an indication by 
Governor Sherrill that the comments prior to the recess with regard 
to the amount of funds devoted to education of staff might be dealt 
with in an issue paper. He also observed that perhaps the Board 
should consider the employment of a person who would be concerned 
explicitly with recruiting among minority groups. Mr. Holland, as 
the Board's Equal Employment Opportunity Officer, pointed out that 
the success of the Board's program in that area was closely related 
to adequacy of opportunities for training, which had a budget impact, 
and it was understood that he and the Division Director would discuss 
the questions that had been raised and come back to the Board with 
f 
-
a revised budget proposal. 

cj 
O NOr<V 
12/19/69 
-14-
There followed a presentation on behalf of the Legal Division, 
it being noted that there was no difference between the program-in-
place and capability budgets except to provide for one-bank holding 
company activities, primarily because of the number of positions 
currently unfilled, and there was also a presentation on behalf of 
the Board Members' Offices. The only substantive question raised in 
the latter connection was where assistants to individual Board members 
should be placed budgetwise, and Governor Sherrill suggested that they 
could be placed according to the type of work to be done. 
As to the Office of the Secretary, a Board member suggested 
making a survey of papers crossing the top desks and Governor Sherrill 
noted that that would be a function of the management information pro-
gram. Also suggested was the making available to Board members of 
samplings of correspondence from bankers and from the general public 
handled through the Secretary's Office, particularly to the extent 
that such correspondence afforded insight into the impact of Federal 
Reserve policies. Governor Sherrill interpreted the discussion of 
that suggestion as reflecting broadly a desire on the part of Board 
members to be kept informed of public reaction on a continuing basis, 
whether such reaction was measured by means of correspondence, views 
received through the Federal Reserve Banks, or otherwise, and he 
noted that the matter could be dealt with in an issue paper. There 
was also a request that the Board members be furnished regular 

385 3 
12/19/69 
-15-
reports on actions taken under delegated authority by the Board's 
staff and by the Reserve Banks. 
A Board member suggested that in the future the budget be 
structured to delineate more clearly the functions performed by the 
Secretary as chief of staff; it was of concern to him that perhaps 
not enough resources were being devoted to carrying out the functions 
associated with the Secretary's duties as chief of staff. 
Consideration of the proposed budget of the Division of 
Administrative Services resulted in comments by Board members 
reflecting concern about the quality of various services. As a 
result, it was understood that in preparation for the next Board 
meeting devoted to the budget the Division Director and the 
Controller would endeavor to provide a statement costing out an 
upgrading of such services. 
A Board member also suggested that provision be made in the 
budget for revision and printing of the book on System purposes and 
functions, and another member expressed interest in receiving cer-
tain information on outside space currently being leased. 
In a discussion of the proposed budget of the Division of 
Data Processing, Board members expressed interest in receiving 
information such as data on final output, with some user breakdown, 
on how much the Board was spending per research user as compared 
with the average university, and on recipients of computer time by 
broad categories. 
It was understood that an effort would be made 

3854 
12/19/69 
-16-
to supply such information to the extent it was reasonably avail-
able, although it was noted that revisions of budget and accounting 
techniques might have to be made to supply some of it. 
The final presentations were on behalf of the Office of the 
Controller and the Office of Defense Planning. With respect to the 
former, Governor Sherrill strongly recommended budget action to 
enable the acquisition of program analysts in order to facilitate 
preparation of various materials such as issue papers that had been 
mentioned during the discussion today. Other members indicated that 
they would be inclined to rely upon Governor Sherrill1s judgment in 
that regard in light of the managerial assignments that had been 
given to him by the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
