Minutes for March 12, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
/ 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Revised guidelines for foreign 
credit restraint program. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the meet-
ing, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If you 
were not present, your initials will indicate only that you have 
seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Rober 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

«JiJO 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, March 12, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Doyle of the Legal Division 
Miss Durkan and Messrs. Walter and White of the 
Division of Bank Operations 
Miss Stockwell of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Foreign credit restraint program (Items 1-4). The Treasury 
Department had released under date of March 7, 1968, an exchange of 

2B7 
3/12/68 
-2-
letters between the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury and the Canadian 
Minister of Finance relating to the application of U.S. balance of 
payments measures to Canada. A copy of the release quoting the letters 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
Under date of March 8, 1968, there had been distributed a memo-
randum from Mr. Sammons submitting for the Board's consideration 
amended guidelines for banks and for nonbank financial institutions 
under the Federal Reserve foreign credit restraint program to conform 
such guidelines to the agreement that had been entered into to exempt 
Canada from the balance of payments program. The changes in the bank 
guidelines, which were relatively few, were shown in an attachment to 
Mr. Sammons1 memorandum. The changes in the nonbank guidelines were 
more extensive, and a complete new version of those guidelines was 
attached to the memorandum. 
Governor Robertson commented that, as indicated in the memoran-
dum, the proposed changes in the bank guidelines were relatively few. 
However, their effect was significant. It was essential, he added, 
that the Canadians take steps to avoid "pass-throughs" by which the 
purpose of the U.S. balance of payments program would be frustrated. 
A group was working on that problem now, and the Secretary of the 
Treasury had requested that the work be completed within the next week 
or ten days. The Canadians had assured the Secretary that they would 
take whatever steps the U.S. considered necessary to prevent pass-
throughs. 

3/12/68 
-3-
Governor Robertson went on to discuss in more detail the scope 
of the changes being proposed in the Federal Reserve program and the 
possible consequences, with emphasis on the changes in the guidelines 
for nonbank financial institutions. There appeared to be no alterna-
tive, he said. The revised guidelines had been worked over carefully, 
and he would suggest that they be approved for issuance. 
Gove rnor Mitchell referred to the statement in the Canadian 
Finance Minister's letter that it was the intention of the Canadians 
to take any steps necessary to insure that the exemption of Canada from 
the U.S. program did not result in its being used as a pass-through by 
which the purpose of the U.S. program would be frustrated. He inquired 
whether it appeared that the term "pass-through" was being construed 
technically or comprehensively. If the Canadians were going to insti-
tute a restraint program similar to the U.S. program, the U.S. would 
be protected. If not, there would appear to be some hazard. 
Governor Robertson replied that he thought the hazard was 
great. He understood from the Treasury that the Canadians had indi-
cated that they would do whatever the U.S. specified to make sure there 
were no pass-throughs. The U.S. representatives would now have to do 
the best job they could in obtaining suitable action. That was one 
of the agreements before the exemption of Canada from the U.S. balance 
of payments program was granted. 
Governor Brimmer said that he had asked Mr. Dunn of the Divi-
sion of International Finance to put together for the Board a paper 

999 
3/12/68 
-5-
dealing with several aspects of the problem of pass-throughs. He went 
on to say that last Friday he and Governor Robertson had raised with 
the Canadians the question whether they were prepared to institute 
guidelines for their banks similar to those contained in the Federal 
Reserve program. The Canadians had indicated that they would look into 
the matter, but he did not feel that the question had been answered 
satisfactorily. It was his hope that after further study the U.S. 
could recommend that the Canadians adopt such guidelines. 
Mr. Solomon said he had reason to believe from last week's 
negotiations that the Canadians would resist duplicating the U.S. bal-
ance of payments program. However, some variation might be feasible. 
Governor Brimmer then commented that unfortunately he had not 
had much time with the Canadians. However, he felt strongly that the 
U.S. program had been dealt with in a way that was not called for, and 
without proper discussion. The steps looking toward implementation 
had not been developed as comprehensively as he would have considered 
desirable. The kinds of questions being raised at this meeting should 
have been raised ahead of time. Almost a week had passed from the 
date of the basic agreement to the time when a start was being made 
on the questions that arose under it, which were significant policy 
questions. He could appreciate the fact that the Canadians would 
resist a duplication in Canada of the U.S. program, but he feared that 
the Canadian program was likely to have substantial leakage in it, and 

1000 
3/12/68 
-5-
it was in the U.S. interest to press the Canadians as far as possible. 
The President's Executive Order issued at the beginning of the year 
conferred a direct responsibility on the Board of Governors under the 
balance of payments program, yet the Canadian matter had been disposed 
of without Board consideration, the basic decision apparently having 
been made by others. 
Governor Mitchell again inquired how broadly the term "pass-
throughs" should be construed, and Mr. Solomon said he did not believe 
the Canadians were looking for loopholes. Governor Robertson added 
that, to judge from the Secretary of the Treasury's comments to him 
and the Secretary's instructions to his subordinates, it was the Secre-
tary's understanding that the Canadians would take effective steps to 
prevent pass-throughs. The need was to follow the matter closely and 
obtain effective performance. Governor Daane agreed that as much as 
possible should be done to insure against pass-throughs in any signi-
ficant sense. 
The proposed amendments to the guidelines of the Federal 
Reserve foreign credit restraint program applicable to banks and to 
nonbank financial institutions were then approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that the revised guidelines would be issued as soon 
as possible. Attached as Item No. 2 is a copy of the press release 
issued on March 13, 1968. Attached as Item No. 3 is a summary of the 
changes in the guidelines for banks, and attached as Item No. 4 is the 
text of the revised guidelines for nonbank financial institutions. 

7 
3/12/68 
-5-
Governor Robertson then referred to a situation where U.S. 
corporate interests had set up a Delaware corporation to borrow funds 
to invest in Jamaica. He described the question of jurisdiction under 
the balance of payments program that had been raised by the Commerce 
Department and how the adoption of that Department's position would 
make administration of the program more difficult. He also said that 
a member of the Board's staff was attending a meeting on the matter 
today, and outlined the position that the staff member had been in-
structed to take. 
No disagreement with the view expressed by Governor Robertson 
was indicated. 
Vault construction. There had been listed for discussion this 
morning a memorandum from the Division of Bank Operations dated March 5, 
1968, regarding vault construction and protection at Federal Reserve 
Banks. However, Chairman Martin suggested that the subject be held 
over for consideration at another meeting. 
Regulation G. Mr. Hexter related that yesterday morning the 
court had rendered an opinion on the status of Regulation G, having 
to do with stock market credit extended by others than banks or 
brokers. Although he had not yet seen the opinion, he understood that 
the court had, in effect, ruled in favor of the Board on every point 
that was raised. The court had denied the plaintiffs' request for an 
injunction. While the suit had not been dismissed and counsel for the 

3/12/68 
- 8 -
plaintiffs might try to reach the court of appeals today in an effort 
to overthrow the lower court's decision, the possibility of success 
seemed slight. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Brill, 
Solomon, and Molony then withdrew. 
Gold problem. Chairman Martin commented informally on his 
attendance at the monthly meeting of the Bank for International Settle-
ments in Basle over the past weekend. In the early part of last week, 
he said, it had become obvious that the gold market was not doing well, 
and he had attended the Basle meeting, after some hesitation, at the 
suggestion of the Treasury. His trip abroad had been noted by the 
press because it became necessary for him to cancel certain engagements 
previously made. 
The Chairman reported that the atmosphere in Basle was gloomy, 
with little enthusiasm for continuing the operations of the gold pool. 
The central bankers feared that the U.S. was not going to effect a 
tax increase, that the budget deficit was understated, if anything, 
and that repeal of the gold cover was likely to be defeated. They 
were also keenly aware of the headlines on adverse developments in 
Vietnam. They seemed to favor moving toward a two-price system for 
gold. However, after considerable discussion of possible alternatives 
to the present arrangement, and the implications thereof, they joined 
in the issuance of a statement, the text of which had been carried in 

i0$3 
3/12/68 
-8-
the press, agreeing to continue their support of the gold pool. There 
was no commitment timewise, but it was hoped that this would provide 
an opportunity to determine what steps, if any, would be taken in the 
U.S. and whether the U.K. budget, soon to be announced, would be 
acceptable. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Pursuant to the action 
taken by the Board, it had been ascertained 
that B. R. Dorsey, President of Gulf Oil 
Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
would accept appointment, if tendered, as a 
director of the Pittsburgh Branch of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland for the 
unexpired portion of the term ending Decem-
ber 31, 1970. Accordingly, an appointment 
wire was sent to Mr. Dorsey today. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks (copy 
attached as Item No. 5) transmitting forms to be used by State member 
banks and their affiliates in submitting reports of condition as of 
the next call date. 
Memorandum from Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser in the Division of 
Research and Statistics, recommending the appointment of Irene E. Krebs 
as Secretary, Task Force-Special Regulations, with basic annual salary 
a t the rate of $5,937, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
On March 12, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 

I* j? f.< •»• c 
1004 
3/12/68 
.9. 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving the appointment of Charles C. Barnett 
as assistant examiner and the appointment of 
Nicholas A. Candito as examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
approving the appointment of Adelbert Robert 
Schwede as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
approving the appointment of Herman H. Buergler, 
Jr., as assistant examiner and the designation 
of Nancy Ann Norvell as special assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
approving the appointment of Jerry Nikituk as 
examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
approving the appointment of William T. Speer, Jr., 
as examiner. 
Letter to Marine Midland Trust Company of Western 
New York, Buffalo, New York, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch at 68-78 Seymour Street. 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The Provident Bank, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Anderson Township, Hamilton County. 
Item No. 
10 
11 
12 
. i <!..' .. f J 
Secretary 

bal T h e f o l l o w i n S letters relating to the application of U.S. 
b 
a n° e of payments measures to Canada were exchanged today 
Ween Secretary of the Treasury Henry H. Fowler and Canadian 
nister of Finance Mitchell Sharp. 
"Dear Minister Sharp: 
"Unique financial relations between our two 
countries have been a mutual support to both and to 
the international monetary system. These relations 
have served the interests of both our countries with-
out interfering with the domestic policies of either. 
"As was said so^ie years ago when it was agreed 
that Canada should be exempt under the Interest 
Equalization Tax: 
'For many years the capital 
markets of the two countries have been closely inter-
connected and U.S. exports of capital to Canada have 
financed a substantial portion of the current account 
deficit with the U.S. This need coatinues.' 
"At the same time this special financial inter-
dependence was underscored by the undertaking of 
Canadian authorities that it would not be the desire 
intention of Canada to increase her foreign ex-
change reserves through the procedure of borrowings 
in the United States. 
"It was agreed that active consultations would 
continue to strengthen the close economic relations 
between the two countries and facilitate measures for 
makirig the maximum practicable contribution to 
.economic expansion and the strength and stability 
both countries. 
"In keeping with this practice, we and our 
colle agues have had the benefit of regular consulta-
tions prior to and since the New Year's Day announce-
ment by President Johnson of the deterioration in 

- 2 -
10-08 
1967 of the U.S. balance of payments and the special 
program designed to bring the U.S. balance of payments 
to or close to equilibrium. 
"We have reviewed the new situation and the new 
program particularly because of some concern in 
financial markets over the potential effects of the 
program on Canada's financial position. 
"Our overall financial arrangements have worked 
well and to our mutual advantage. 
Our special relation-
ships in the financial field include: 
"-- All commercial bank lending to Canada, 
regardless of maturities, is exempt from 
the IET. Such loans to Canadian borrowers 
have priority under the Federal Reserve 
guidelines. 
"-- There are no restrictions on the amount of 
long-term loans to Canadian borrowers which 
can be made by U.S. non-bank financial 
••institutions. 
Such long-term loans are 
exempt from the IET, from the direct invest-
ment program, and from the Federal Reserve 
guidelines. 
"-- Canadian subsidiaries of U.S. companies as 
well as all other Canadian companies can 
come to the U.S. capital market and borrow 
free of the Interest Equalization Tax to 
finance their investments in Canada. 
"We agree that the time has now come to adapt these 
special relations in the financial field to our mutual 
advantage in handling the new U.S. direct investment and 
Federal Reserve programs as well as Canada's reserve 
management policies. 
"The cardinal element in the present financial relation-
ships between the U.S. and Canada is the fact that to the 
extent capital outflows from the U.S. to Canada of a kind 
now covered by the U.S. balance of payments measures are 
insufficient to finance Canada's current account deficit, 
Canadian borrowers would further exercise their existing 

- 3 -
1007 
rights to borrow more in U.S. capital markets. 
There-
fore, any decline in the level of particular capital 
outflows to Canada from the level of past years caused 
by new U.S. measures could be expected to lead to 
increased borrowings by Canadian entities in the U.S. 
capital market. 
"In the light of this situation and to make sure 
that the flow of funds from the United States to Canada 
is adequate, the U.S. will undertake to exempt Canada 
from all the new U.S. balance of payments measures 
affecting capital flows that are administered by the 
Department of Commerce and the Federal Reserve Board. 
"By these arrangements Canada's financial position 
is assured insofar as capital imports from the United 
States are concerned and the U.S. balance of payments 
objectives and program as announced on January 1 would 
not be affected. 
"I am sure that you will agree that it is desirable 
that we should continue to keep the economic and 
financial relationships between the two countries and 
with the rest of the world under continuing review, and 
that we should examine the detailed operation of this 
agreement and its impact on the balance of payments of 
both countries in the Joint Canada-U.S. Ministerial 
Economic Committee and through regular meetings of our 
officials. 
"I am satisfied that these arrangements will provide 
mutual support to our payments position and hence 
strengthen the international monetary system. 
"Sincerely yours, 
/s/ Henry H. Fowler" 
"Honorable Mitchell Sharp 
Minister of Finance 
Ottawa, Canada" 

4 
"Dear Secretary Fowler: 
"I acknowledge receipt of your letter of today. 
"Canada has, as you are aware, a great interest in 
the strength and stability of the United States dollar, 
and we have been deeply impressed by the steps you 
announced at the beginning of the year to reduce your 
balance of payments deficit. We have also been conscious 
of your desire to operate your program in a way which 
recognizes the special position of Canada. 
"I am, of course, very pleased that you have now 
reached the conclus ion that you can, consistently with 
the objectives of your programme, give further recogni-
tion to this special position by exempting Canada 
completely from your balance of payments programme. 
"The unique position of Canada was reflected in the 
IET Exemption Reserve Target Agreement reached in 1963. 
The Canadian Government feels that the further steps you 
are now taking should be matched by further steps on the 
Canadian side. First, to insure that your balance of 
payments position is in no way impaired as a result of 
your action, I am informing you that it is our intention 
to take any steps necessary to insure that the exemption 
from your programme does not result in Canada's being 
used as a "pass-through" by which the purpose of your 
balance of payments programme is frustrated. 
"It is also our intention to invest our entire 
holdings (apart from necessary working balances) of 
United States dollars in U.S. government securities 
which do not constitute a liquid claim on the United 
States, with of course effective safeguards to our 
position should our reserve level require. 
"I agree that these arrangements are in the interest 
of both countries and in the general interest and that 
they provide further evidence of close and mutually 
beneficial relationships between us. 
'Yours Sincerely, 
/s/ Mitchell Sharp 1! 
The Honorable 
Henry H. Fowler 
Secretary of the Treasury 
Washington, D. C." 
ii 
n 

F
E
D
E
R
A
L 
R
E
S
E
R
V
E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
'•f^LRtsf:-
Item No. 2 
3/12/68 
FORIMMEDIATE RELEASE 
March 13, 1968. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced revisions in the guidelines for banks and nonbank financial 
institutions issued January I, 1968, under the President's balance of 
Payments program. These revisions have been made for the purpose of 
implementing the agreement reached between the Governments of Canada 
and the United States as set forth in an exchange of letters between 
Secretary of the Treasury Fowler and Finance Minister Sharp on 
March 7, 1968. 
Banks will now be permitted to increase claims on residents 
Canada without reference to the ceilings suggested by the guide-
lines. The revisions in the bank guidelines, reflected in adjustments 
t o be made in the applicable reporting form, exclude from a bank's 
reportable foreign assets any change in claims on residents of Canada 
after February 29, 1968, whether an increase or a decrease. Banks 
Wlll not be able to increase foreign loans to other parts of the world 
by 
reducing their holdings of Canadian assets. There are no other 
substantive changes in the bank guidelines. 

1QW 
••tj 
The revised guidelines for nonbank financial institutions 
exclude all holdings of Canadian assets from the provisions of the 
guidelines. For this purpose, the reporting form will be changed 
to provide that Canadian assets, while still shown, will be deducted 
both frpm the base and from covered assets subject to the ceiling. 
Also, net financial investment in nonfinancial subsidiaries and 
affiliates located in developed countries other than Canada and Japan 
has been added to the definition of covered assets. Formerly only 
Such investment in foreign branches and financial subsidiaries and 
affiliates located in those countries was covered by the guidelines. 
The program for nonbank financial institutions still seeks a reduction 
I 
S • 1 
in covered foreign assets of 5 per cent or more during 1968. 
• 
. . . 
Copies of the changes in the Guidelines for Banks and the 
text of the revised Guidelines for Nonbank Financial Institutions art 
attached. 
f| it; . \*) >u 
' 
• 
- .g V 
am iSStv ^ • " • 
ATTACHMENTS 

ATTACHMENT 1 
CHANGES IN 
Item No. 3 
GUIDELINES FOR BANKS 
3/12/68 
i 
and reporting 
- 
* * * 
, B. Specific inclusions and exclusions in calculating the ceiling: 
V • •-•v.- 1 ' ' ' 
• 
it it -k 
/ ^ ^ 
(2) Contingent claims, unutilized credits, claims held for 
account of customers, acceptances executed by other U.S. banks, loans 
guaranteed or participated in by the Export-Import Bank or insured 
ty the Foreign Credit Insurance Association, and any increase in 
on Canadian residents over the amount of such claims held on 
Sgfevarv 29. 1968. should be excluded. 
. 
Exclusions from the ceiling 
Loans guaranteed or participated in by the Export-Import Bank or 
^ insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Association are excluded from 
the ceiling. The role of the Export-Import Bank within the framework 
the President's program is coordinated by the National Advisory 
.Council for International Monetary and Financial Policies. Also, 
^eluded is any increase in claims on Canadian residents..oyer the. 

fry 
H.t> sm 
«f.l«
DJ. 
I® 
- 2 -
Loan priorities 
* 
* 
* 
With respect to nonexport credits, banks should give the 
high 
est priority to loans to developing countries and should avoid 
restrictive policies that would place an undue burden on 6aRada-aR^ 
Japan or the United Kingdom. 
* Jc "k 
£ 
T 
-Transactions for the account of customers 
A bank should bear in mind the President's balance of payments 
Program when acting for the account of a customer. Although the bank 
V'IV/. 
v- 
i.'" 
... 
• 
is obliged 
to follow a customer's instruct ions, it should to the ex-
tent possible discourage customers from placing liquid funds outside 
the United States, except in Canada. * * * 
-Management of a bank's liquid funds 
A bank should not place its ovn funds abroad for short-term 
investment purposes, whether such investments are payable in foreign 
currencies or in U.S. dollars. This does not, however, apply to in-
vestments in Canada, nor does it call for a reduction in necessary 
v°rking balances held with foreign correspondents. 
It-

I 
I 
If I 
' 
Attachment 2 
GUIDELINES FOR NONBANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
Item No. 4 
3/12/68 
Preface 
The program announced on January 1, 1968 has been changed as 
£ 
• " 
Allows: 
1. Liquid funds in Canada, as well as short- and intermediate-
^rm credits to Canadians, are no longer considered to be "covered" assets. 
With this change, all claims on Canadians, regardless of maturity, are 
GXemPt from the guideline ceiling. 
2. All net investments in foreign businesses are now considered 
0 be foreign financial assets reportable under the program. The effect 
01 this 
ange is to apply the same guideline treatment to investment in 
v . 
• 
• - -
^financial subsidiaries and affiliates located abroad as to investment 
in foreign branches, financial subsidiaries and affiliates. 
All institutions are still requested to reduce their holdings of 
0reign assets covered by the program by 5 per cent or more during 1968, 
W l t h the target reduction based on the amount of such assets held on 
Member 31, 1967. They generally are expected to reduce their holdings 
of 
1 Hquid funds abroad (other than in Canada) to zero during 1968, except 
to 
0 the extent that minimum working balances are required for the conduct 
of f foreign business activities. 
Institutions are expected also to refrain from making any new 
in 
Vestments, in either debt or equity form, in the developed countries 
c°ntinental Western Europe, except for new credits judged essential 
t ° the financing of U.S. exports as evidenced by exemption from the 
> 
nterest Equalization Tax that otherwise would apply. 

The definition of covered assets continues to: (a) exclude 
7 fore 
ign assets of types otherwise covered by the program but acquired as 
"free delivery" items after December 31, 1967; and (b) provide that 
e(luity securities held at the beginning of 1968 be carried throughout 
l968 at the values reflected in the report (on Form FR 392R-68) filed 
December 31, 1967, and that equities purchased during 1968 be carried 
at cost. 
Among the types of foreign assets covered by the program, insti-
tutions are still requested to give absolute priority to credits that 
re:Present financing essential to the sale of U.S. goods abroad. They may 
^Vest in noncovered foreign assets as desired. 
V'- •'.•••.• 
Only financial institutions holding covered assets of $500,000 
0t more, or total foreign assets of $5 million or more, are asked to file 
^Uarterly reports with their Federal Reserve Bank. However, institutions 
^th holdings below these amounts are also expected to abide by the pro-
visione of the program. 
fe •'Iff;. 
The group of institutions covered by the nonbank guidelines 
Coritinue8 to include trust companies and trust departments of commercial 
mutual savings banks, insurance companies, investment companies, 
^nance companies, employee retirement and pension funds, college endow-
m e n t funds, and charitable foundations. Also included are the U.S. 
^tvches of foreign insurance companies and of other foreign nonbank 
ln3ncial corporations. Investment underwriting firms, securities brokers 
a n d dealers, and investment counseling firms also are covered with respect 
t o foreign financial assets held for their own account and are requested 

.1015 
- 9 -
inform their customers of the program in those cases where it appears 
aPPUcable. 
Guidelines 
Through the end of calendar year 1968, each institution is re-
vested to reduce its aggregate holdings of "covered" foreign financial 
asset8 to 95 per cent or less of its "adjusted base-date holdings." 
Covered foreign financial assets, subject to the guideline ceil-
include the following types of investments, except for "free delivery" 
items received after December 31, 1967: 
This 
1. Liquid funds in all foreign countries other than Canada, 
category comprises foreign bank deposits, including deposits in 
teign branches of U.S. banks, and liquid money market claims on foreign 
Vigors, generally defined to include marketable negotiable instruments 
during in 1 year or less. 
2. All other claims on non-Canadian obligors written to mature 
^ years or less at date of acquisition. This category includes bonds, 
Hot e s 
mortgages, loans, and other credits. Excluded are bonds and notes 
of * 
"ternational institutions of which the United States is a member, and 
loans guaranteed or participated in by the Export-Import Bank or insured 
by 
Foreign Credit Insurance Association, regardless of maturity. 
3. Net financial investment in foreign branches, subsidiaries 
affiliates, located in developed countries other than Canada and 
Japan 1/ 
Such financial investment includes payments into equity and 
Capital accounts of, and net loans and advances to, any foreign 

busineeses in which the U.S. institution'' has an ownership interest of 10 
Per cent or more. Excluded are earnings of a foreign affiliate if they 
g 
e directly retained in the capital accounts of the foreign business. 
4. Long-term credits of foreign obligors domiciled in developed 
c°ur\tries other than Canada and Japan.- 
Included in this category are 
bo 
nds> notes, mortgages, loans, and other credits maturing more than 10 
ars after date of acquisition. Excluded are bonds of international 
\Vv > v 
. ; 
iri8tltutions of which the United States is a member. 
5. Equity securities of foreign corporations domiciled in 
d*Vel-Oped countries other than Canada and Japaiv^ except those acquired 
a*te* September 30, 1965, in U.S. markets from American investors. The 
tgg«- 
r 
, . > . 
whether an equity security is covered will depend on the insti-
4. 
obligation to pay the Interest Equalization Tax on acquisition. 
*c^UQion from covered assets under this program normally will be indicated 
when • 
» in acquiring an equity security that otherwise would be covered, the 
purchasing institution receives a certificate of prior American ownership, 
r brokerage confirmation thereof. 
"Base-date" holdings for any reporting date in 1968 are defined 
Qfj» (!) total holdings of covered foreign assets as of December 31, 1967; 
(2) 
minus, equity securities of companies domiciled in developed countries 
(e*cept Canada and Japan),that are included in (1) but had been sold 
to Ame*ican investors prior to the current quarter; (3) plus, or minus, 
the „ 
sold prior to the current quarter to other than American investors or 
difference between sales proceeds and "carrying" value of covered equi-
ln other than U.S. markets. On eAch reporting date in 1968, "carrying" 

Value should be the value reflected in the institution's report (on Form 
392R-68) for December 31, 1967, in the case of equities held on that 
and it should be cost in the case of equities purchased after that 
date. 
"Adjusted" base-date holdings, to which the 95 per cent ceiling 
aPplies, are equal to "base-date" holdings as defined above, with the two 
types of adjustment for sales of included covered equities during the 
CUrrent quarter. 
In making foreign loans and investments that are subject to the 
8uideline ceiling, institutions are asked to give absolute priority to 
Credits that represent the bona fide financing of U.S. exports, that is, 
dancing necessary to consummate the export sale. At the same time, 
*nstitutions generally are expected to reduce their holdings of covered 
f°teign liquid funds (both deposits and money market instruments) to zero 
during 1968, even though it entails a reduction in total covered assets 
C°nsiderably larger than 5 per cent. However, an institution may maintain 
8 U c h 
gLj-nimum working balances abroad as are needed for the efficient 
C°nduct of its foreign business activities. In addition, institutions 
reque8ted to refrain from making any new investments, in either debt 
or _ 
"nulty form, in the developed countries of continental Western Europe, 
• 
: 
- 
. 
...... 
ePfc for new credits judged essential to the financing of U.S. exports 
9s -
evidenced by exemption from the Interest Equalization Tax that other-
* l S e would apply. 
For some institutions, repatriation of liquid funds, cessation 
of Bo 
investment in the countries of continental Western Europe, and 

.1018 
- 9 -
Maximum restraint on reinvestment of current maturities of other covered 
assets may not be sufficient to reduce total covered assets by the target 
°bjective of 5 per cent or more. In such instances, or when there are 
°ther special circumstances--such as the existence at year-end 1967 of 
commitments to invest, or the need to accommodate requests for the 
fe^a fide financing of U.S. exports--an institution may consult with its 
federal Reserve Bank with a view to working out an individually tailored 
Pr°gram for achieving an orderly reduction in the institution's covered 
*°reign assets. In the absence of such an arrangement, institutions will 
expected to make progress from quarter to quarter on the reduction tar-
geted for the year as a whole. 
Foreign financial assets not covered by the guideline are still 
rePortable on the quarterly statistical reports to the Federal Reserve 
®anks, but are not subject to the target reduction. Such non-covered 
^°teign investments include the following: 
1. All financial assets in, or claims on residents of, the 
Pinion of Canada. 
2. Bonds and notes of international institutions of which the 
^ni-ted States is a member, regardless of maturity. 
3. Long-term investments in Japan and all developing countries, 
Eluding credit instruments with final maturities of more than 10 years 
at H 
date of acquisition, direct investment in subsidiaries and affiliates, 
all equity securities issued by firms domiciled in these countries. 

- 9 -
.1019 
4. Equity securities of firms in developed countries other 
than Canada and Japan that have been acquired in U.S. markets from 
American investors (see Point 5 above). 
Foreign assets of types covered by the program and acquired as 
free delivery" items--that is, as new gifts or, in the case of trust 
c°mpanies or trust departments of commercial banks, in new accounts de-
b i t e d with the institution--are not now defined as covered assets, if 
tl)ey are acquired after December 31, 1967. Such assets should be reported 
as « 
a memorandum item, as should loans guaranteed or participated in by the 
^xPort-Import Bank or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Association. 
Each nonbank financial institution holding, on any quarterly 
^Porting date, covered assets of $500,000 or more, or total foreign 
financial assets of $5 million or more, is requested to file a statistical 
tePort , covering its total holdings on that date, with the Federal Reserve 
®ank of the Federal Reserve District in which its principal office is 
Seated. The reports are due within 20 days following the close of each 
Calendar quarter, and forms may be obtained by contacting the Federal 
Reserve Bank. 
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 
In cooperating in the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
°gram, the nonbank financial institutions are requested to refrain 
fro 
utn making loans and investments inconsistent with other aspects of the 
s balance of payments program. Among these are the following: 

.1020 
- 9 -
(1) non-covered credits under this program that substitute for loans that 
cotnmercial banks would have made in the absence of that part of the pro-
-am applicable to them; (2) credits to U.S. corporate borrowers that 
^ould enable them to make new foreign loans and investments inconsistent 
with the corporate part of the program; (3) credits to U.S. subsidiaries 
and branches of foreign companies that otherwise would have been made to 
cne for 
eign parent, or that would substitute for funds normally obtained 
*rom foreign sources. 
The voluntary foreign crddit restraint program for nonbank 
financial institutions does not apply to the investment, within the 
c°untry involved, of reserves accumulated on insurance policies sold 
abroad, in amounts up to 110 per cent of such reserves. Furthermore, 
in view of the balance of payments objectives of the program, it is noted 
covered investments of nonbank financial institutions may be permitted 
to exceed the guideline ceiling to the extent that the funds for such 
investment are borrowed in countries that are subject to the same guide-
limitations. Thus, funds borrowed in the developed countries of 
c°ntinental Western Europe may be used to finance investments in= these 
c°untries, and funds borrowed in other developed countries (except 
^anada and Japan) may be used to finance investment in covered foreign 
assets elsewhere. Any institution desiring to offset foreign borrowing 
a&ainst foreign investment, however, should discuss its plans with the 
^et*eral Reserve Bank before entering into such an arrangement. 

.1021 
- 9 -
- 1 / N O T E - Developed countries other than Canada and Japan: 
c°ntinental Western Europe--Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany 
(Federal Republic), Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, 
Norway, Portugal, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland; other : 
developed countries are: Abu Dhabi, Australia, the Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bermuda, Hong Kong, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Kuwait, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia 
Neutral Zone, Libya, New Zealand, Qatar, Republic of South Africa, Saudi 
Arabia, and the United Kingdom. Also to be considered "developed" are the 
f°Uowing countries: Albania, Bulgaria, any part of China which is domi-
nated or controlled by international communism, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Esf 
tonia, Hungary, any part of Korea which is dominated or controlled by 
international communism, Latvia, Lithuania, Outer Mongolia, Poland 
including any area under its provisional administration), Rumania, 
S 
°viet Zone of Germany and the Soviet sector of Berlin, Tibet, Union 
Soviet Socialist Republics and the Kurile Islands, Southern Sakhalin, 
g 
i 
areas in East Prussia which are under the provisional administration 
fche Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and any part of Vietnam 
^at is dominated or controlled by international communism. 

V. 
£ 
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
3/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 13, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
The indicated number of copies of the following forms are 
being forwarded to your bank under separate cover for use of State 
member banks and their affiliates in submitting reports as of the 
next call date: 
Number of 
_ Copies 
Form FR 105 (Call No. 187, revised to short form 
September 1967), Report of Condition of State 
member banks. 
Form FR 105e (Revised June 1967), Publisher's copy 
of report of condition of State member banks. 
Form FR 105e-l (Revised June 1967), Publisher's 
copy of report of condition of State member banks. 
Form FR 220 (Revised September 1966), Report of 
Affiliate or Holding Company Affiliate. 
Form FR 220a (Revised September 1966), Publisher's 
copy of Report of Affiliate or Holding Company 
Affiliate. 
The face of the condition report form is identical to that 
used for the December 1967 call, and the reverse is in the short 
form used for recent spring and fall calls. The Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation will distribute a similar form. 

-2-
As for other recent spring and £all calls, memoranda items 
on the back of the form for reporting valuation reserves on loans 
and securities have been included but items pertaining to averages 
of deposits and loans have been eliminated. The average deposit and 
loan items have been retained on the publisher's copy of the State 
member form; however, reporting banks should be advised that publi-
cation is optional. The Comptroller of the Currency is not requiring 
publication of these items. 
Since many of the more important data from the face of the 
report are available from other sources for all member banks, and 
in view of the limited analytic use of the additional information 
in the short form call reports, it will not be necessary to keypunch 
for the Board's use condition data reported at the spring call date. 
State member banks should be reminded again of the provision 
contained in Public Law 90-44 (reporting of loans to executive officers) 
enacted July 3, 1967, Section 1, (g)(9). This law, which appeared 
in the August Federal Reserve Bulletin at page 1333, requires that 
each member bank include with (but not as part of) each report of 
condition and copy filed with the F.D.I.C, a report of all loans 
to executive officers under authority of that subsection made by 
the bank since its previous report of condition. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

BOARD OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• P THE 
Item No. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/12/68 
£*. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 13, 1968 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Timlen's letter of March 7, 1968, the Acting 
Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointments of Charles C. Barnett as an 
assistant examiner and Nicholas A. Candito, at present 
an assistant examiner, as an examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. Please advise the salary 
rate for Mr. Candito and the effective dates of the 
appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

J A r 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
3/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S P D N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 13, 1968 
Mr. Harry W. Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of March 7, 1968, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board 
of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Adelbert Robert Schwede as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

.^OTGOw.--
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
3/12/68 
''•SuEf^v 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 14, 1968 
Mr. 0. 0. Wyrick, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Mr. Wyrick: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
March 7, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the appointment of Herman H. Buergler, Jr., as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, effective April 1, 1968. 
The authorization heretofore given your Bank to designate Mr. Buergler 
as a special assistant examiner is hereby cancelled. 
As requested, the Acting Director also approves the designation 
of Miss Nancy Ann Norvell as a special assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

I 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
3/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 13, 1968 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of March 6, 1968, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board 
of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Jerry (given name Yaroslaw) Nikituk 
as an examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
effective March 25, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

I : 
1 0 2 8 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
3/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C 0 R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 13, 1968 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Davenport's letter of March 8, 1968, the Acting 
Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointment of William T. Speer, Jr., as 
an examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 
^LRtsfT- * 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
3/12/68 
March 19, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Marine Midland Trust Company of 
Western New York, 
Buffalo, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the establishment of a branch by Marine Midland Trust 
Company of Western New York, Buffalo, New York, at 68-78 Seymour 
Street, Buffalo, New York, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of'this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
and that establishment of the branch will not tend to create an 
undesirable competitive situation. It is suggested that all 
means to strengthen your bank's capital position be carefully 
considered. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 12 
3/12/68 
March 12, 1968 
Mr. Carl H. Lindner, 
President 
I'he Provident Bank 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
Dear Mr. 
Lindner-
The application of your bank dated January 4, 1968, for per-
mission to establish an out-of-town branch at 7500 Beechmont Avenue, 
Anderson Township, Hamilton County, Ohio, has been reviewed by this 
bank. 
Upon investigation, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland finds 
that the capital of the bank is ad equate, that its management is satis-
factory, that the proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs 
of the community, and that it will not tend to create an undesirable, 
c o m -
petitive situation. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland hereby approves the establishment 
of an out-of-town branch by your bank at 7500 Beechmont Avenue, 
pro-
vided the branch is established within two years from the date of this 
letter. 
On the day operations are started, will you please wire us that 
the branch has been officially opened for business. 
Very, truly yours, 
H. W. Huning 
Vice President 
