FR 609 
t'Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
February 11. 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
I 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate5 approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
/ ZKOA r 
b t P 
-
ti 
U 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

374 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 11, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
m 
£ 

375 
2/11/71 
-12-
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mr. Metzger and Miss Wolcott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The issuance of an order reflecting the 
Board's approval on February 2, 1971, of the application of Union 
Bank, Los Angeles, California, to merge The Stanford Bank, Palo Alto, 
California, was authorized. A copy of the document is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
Unanimous approval was given to the application of First 
Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, to acquire shares 
of First Bank & Trust Company, Colonial Heights, Virginia, a proposed 
new bank, and to the application of the latter for admission to member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter to First 
Bank & Trust Company is attached as Item No. 2. The issuance of an 
order reflecting the Board's approval of the holding company applica-
tion was authorized. A copy of the document is attached as Item No. 3. 

2/11/71 
-3-
The application of First Union, Incorporated, St. Louis, 
Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank of Springfield, Springfield, 
Missouri, was approved unanimously, and the issuance of an order was 
authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached as Item No. 4. 
Report on competitive factors. Approval was given to the trans-
mittal of a report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competi-
tive factors involved in the proposed merger of Oroville State Bank, 
Oroville, Washington, into Old National Bank of Washington, Spokane, 
Washington, in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
The effect of the proposed acquisition on competition 
would be adverse. Oroville State Bank at present is the 
only banking organization in the Oroville market. The 
proposed merger would, however, eliminate the nearest 
alternative source of banking services for Oroville resi-
dents because the sole organization in the adjacent market 
is a branch of Old National Bank of Washington. 
Thus, 
following the merger, an Oroville customer would have to 
travel 40 miles into a third banking market in order to 
reach an alternative source of banking services. 
C-jvf.-iios I 
• r sen 'luv.Uc.> S id 
w«3 
>t in tavor or i e 
As transmitted, the conclusion reflected a coupling of the adverse 
' 
; 
' 
'V 
• 
i i ' 
finding of the Division of Supervision and Regulation with the descrip-
tive language of the Banking Markets Section in support of its view 
that the competitive effect would be substantially adverse. 
Governor 
Robertson expressed a preference for the substandially adverse recom-
mendation of the Banking Markets Section but observed that the format 
suggested by Governor Mitchell might accomplish about the same purpose. 
Registration statements. 
In a memorandum dated February 10, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation described the account-
ing treatment of goodwill proposed in an attached draft of registration 

377 
2/11/71 
-12-
statement for one-bank holding companies that was being resubmitted 
I - i • - 
• 
• 
• 
' -
for Board consideration, and an alternative approach to goodwill 
recommended by several members of the Federal Advisory Council. 
Sug-
gested changes in the draft registration statement were included should 
the Board prefer the alternative approach. 
Several Board members expressed themselves in favor of the 
alternative goodwill approach suggested by the FAC members. More gen-
erally, however, reservations were voiced as to the need to require 
such an elaborate registration statement from small holding companies 
in uncomplicated situations. 
It was suggested that the form could 
either be condensed or a separate short form developed. Further dis-
cussion developed a consensus in favor of the latter approach, and 
suggestions were offered as to criteria for determining which form 
should be used in particular circumstances. 
Governor Robertson indicated that he was not in favor of the 
proposed treatment of goodwill. The question of writing off goodwill 
has arisen in the Comptroller's Office recently, and the subject was 
presently being considered on an interagency staff basis. 
It was understood that revised draft forms would be prepared 
in accordance with today's discussion and brought back for further 
consideration within a few days. 
u. 
Trust Company of Georgia. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated February 2, 1971, and other pertinent 

2/11/71 
-3-
papers had been distributed in connection with applications of Trust 
Company of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, to acquire the assets and assume 
the liabilities of Peachtree Bank and Trust Company, Chamblee, and 
Trust Company of Georgia Bank of Sandy Springs. 
The applications were approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that orders would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Proposed amendments to Export-Import Bank Act. Following dis-
cussion, a letter to the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs regarding S. 19 and S. 581, bills to amend 
the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, was approved unanimously subject 
to final review by Chairman Burns. A copy of the letter subsequently 
sent is attached as Item No. 5. 
Interest rate ceiling authority. 
In a memorandum dated Febru-
ary 9y 1971, Mr. Cardon discussed the provisions of a Treasury draft 
bill that would (1) make permanent the interest rate ceiling authority 
provided in Public Law 89-597 and (2) authorize the National Credit 
Un 
ion Administration to limit the rate of dividends paid on member 
accounts of insured credit unions. Attached to the memorandum was a 
Proposed letter to the Office of Management and Budget that would indicate 
support of the first objective but express the view that there was no 
clear need for the imposition of ceilings on the rate of dividends paid 
credit union accounts under present circumstances. 
In another memorandum dated February 9, 1971, Governor Mitchell 
summarized proposals reflected in draft legislation relating to interest 

2/11/71 
-3-
rate controls submitted by Chairman Martin of the Federal Home Loan 
Bank Board to the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
Governor 
Mitchell requested the Board's views with respect thereto. 
It was agreed that support of the Treasury proposal to make 
permanent the interest rate ceiling authority should be couched in 
strong terms in view of the proven usefulness of the authority. 
There 
was also agreement that a mildly negative approach on the credit union 
proposal would be appropriate. 
Members of the Board also commented on the Home Loan Bank Board 
proposals in such terms as to provide guidance to Governor Mitchell in 
his future discussions with the Coordinating Committee. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Office of 
Management and Budget in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
Payments mechanism. The System Steering Committee on Improving 
the Payments Mechanism, of which Governor Mitchell was Chairman, had 
selected a proposal submitted by Thompson, Ramo, Woolridge, Inc., 
Redondo Beach, California, to analyze and model the payments mechanism 
network at a cost not to exceed $214,750. 
In a memorandum dated Febru-
ary 8, 1971, Governor Mitchell proposed that the Board (1) authorize 
a letter of agreement with TRW on behalf of the System, and (2) autho-
rize payments to TRW monthly. At the end of the six-month contract 
period the Board would be reimbursed by assessment on the Federal Reserve 
Banks. 

2/11/71 
-3-
Following discussion, the proposals were approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter sent to TRW is attached as Item No. 7. A copy 
of the press release issued in this connection is attached as Item No. 8 
Annual Report. A draft of the economic and financial review 
proposed for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report for 1970 had been 
distributed with a memorandum dated February 4, 1971, from Mr. Partee. 
General agreement with the review was expressed, subject to 
certain editorial changes. 
Some members of the Board also indicated 
that they would appreciate additional time to study the material further 
Question was raised whether the review should be submitted to 
the Joint Economic Committee in connection with the Chairman's forth-
coming testimony, and there was some discussion of that possibility. 
It was understood that further comments with regard to the 
draft text would be forwarded to Mr. Partee, and that the timing of 
release would be left to the discretion of Chairman Burns. 
Directors Day. Unanimous approval was given to the recommenda-
tion of Governor Robertson, as set forth in a memorandum dated Febru-
ary 3, 1971, that meetings with new directors of Federal Reserve Banks 
and branches be reinstituted, with the understanding that the staff 
should proceed with the selection of a date and planning of a program. 
Members of the staff not concerned with the following items on 
the agenda withdrew from the meeting at this point, and Messrs. Slocum, 
Director, and Watt, Assistant Director, Division of Data Processing, 
entered. 

381 
2/11/71 
-12-
Culpeper computer. At the meeting on February 2, 1971, con-
sideration was given to the question whether the cost of the planned 
computer operation at Culpeper could be justified by the Board's short 
and long-range objectives in the data processing area. 
(The Division 
of Data Processing in a memorandum dated January 21, 1971, had recom-
mended that the operation be closed down as expeditiously as possible, 
while Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator, in a memorandum 
dated January 18, 1971, had advanced arguments in favor of maintain-
ing such a capacity.) Question had been raised as to the role that 
the Culpeper facility would play in terms of emergency planning, and 
the staff had been instructed to check with the Office of Emergency 
Preparedness. 
On the basis of information developed, from which it appeared 
to the staff that some level of computer capability at the Board's 
emergency relocation site was desirable, the Division of Data Process-
ing, in a memorandum dated February 9, 1971, proposed that a smaller 
computer system be installed. 
In a memorandum dated February 10 the 
Office of the Secretary summarized possible options as follows: (1) re-
tain the IBM 360/40 system at an annual cost of approximately $553,840 
and apportion the cost among the 12 Federal Reserve Banks on the basis 
that it was essentially an emergency installation for the use of the 
entire System; (2) substitute a smaller system, at an annual cost of 
approximately $46,144, and apportion the cost among the Federal Reserve 
Banks; or (3) close the Culpeper computer operation. 

382 
2/11/71 
-12-
Governor Robertson commented on the original rationale for 
installation of a large computer system at Culpeper for operating 
purposes and said he was still convinced that decentralization of 
the Board's computer facilities was the proper course over a period 
of time. 
Governor Sherrill noted that attempts by various organizations 
to install computer facilities at outlying locations had met with 
organizational and administrative difficulties, and it was his view 
that the trend was now in the other direction. 
Governor Maisel indicated that he would accept the technical 
advice in this matter and opt for the smaller system at Culpeper. 
In 
his view the expenditure required to hold the place for several years 
was not warranted, and in any event a larger system could be installed 
later if desired. 
Governor Daane said that at this time he would be willing to 
accept the second option, which he understood would meet emergency 
planning problems as now foreseen, although basically he agreed with 
Governor Robertson. 
Governor Mitchell discussed possible future System requirements 
and concluded that at some point a substantial increase in computer 
capacity would likely be called for either in Washington or at Culpeper. 
However, when the need arose, it could be met. 
The members of the Board had to leave at this time to attend 
the swearing in of Mr. Connally as Secretary of the Treasury. 
Accordingly, 

383 
2/11/71 
-12-
the meeting recessed and reconvened at 12:20 p.m. 
There followed further discussion of current and prospective 
demands on the Board's data processing facilities, including prospects 
for housing required personnel and equipment in available space in the 
Board's annex building. The expectation was expressed by staff that 
near-term needs could be accommodated satisfactorily, and Governor 
Sherrill noted that horizons could not be extended too far in the com-
puter field in the light of ongoing developments. 
Accordingly, although some reservations were noted by Governors 
Robertson and Daane, approval was given to the substitution of the 
smaller computer system at Culpeper, with the understanding that the 
cost thereof would be apportioned among the Federal Reserve Banks along 
with the costs incurred from a personnel and equipment standpoint in 
installing and converting from the computer system now installed at 
Culpeper. 
Sale by member banks of participations in pools of assets. 
In a memorandum dated January 28, 1971, the Legal Division discussed 
questions that had arisen concerning the sale by member banks of par-
ticipation certificates representing interests in pools of various kinds 
of assets. 
Issues presented included the extent, if any, to which 
Participation certificates involve bank liabilities subject to Regula-
tions D and Q; the extent, if any, to which participation certificates 
sold to an affiliate bank constitute loans by the purchasing bank; 

384 
2/11/71 
-12-
and the manner in which participation certificates should be reflected 
in the selling bank's condition report. The Legal Division recommended 
that the Board publish an interpretation establishing as a basic prin-
ciple the reasoning on the first and third of these questions that had 
been set forth in a letter sent to the Government National Mortgage 
Association in June 1970. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the memorandum tended 
to confuse the participation certificate issue with the repurchase 
agreement issue. He would like to have those two issues separated and 
to have the Board reconsider its position on repurchase agreements, 
which provides that a member bank may sell securities under such an 
arrangement with a nonbank without its obligation giving rise to a 
deposit liability only if the securities are direct obligations or fully 
guaranteed by the United States or an agency thereof. There had been 
changes in the environment since the Board's position was taken, along 
with changes in the composition of the Board, and he felt that re-exam-
ination was needed. 
In further discussion, Governor Maisel stated reasons for his 
view that the rules and regulations covering repurchase agreements 
should be the same as those for certificates of deposit. He agreed, 
like Governor Mitchell, with the interpretation as to participation 
certificates that was recommended by the Legal Division. 
At the end of the discussion Governor Mitchell repeated that 
he would like the Legal Division to recast its memorandum and treat 
-

385 
2/11/71 
-12-
separately the characteristics of repurchase agreements and participa-
tion certificates, with recommended guidelines in each case for the 
Board's consideration. 
Accordingly, it was agreed that no action would be taken today 
and that the staff would prepare a new memorandum against the background 
of the comments by Governors Mitchell and Maisel. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

386 
Item No. 1 
2/11/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
UNI0N BANK, 
L o s Angeles, California, 
approval of merger with 
J h c Stanford Bank, 
Palo Alto, California. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION 
FOR MERGER OF BANKS UNDER 
BANK MERGER ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
t h e Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Union Bank, 
Angeles, California, a member State bank of the Federal Reserve 
System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank and 
6 Stanford Bank, Palo Alto, California, under the charter and name 
f Union Bank. As an incident to the merger, the sole office of The 
St 
anford Bank would become a branch of the resulting bank. Notice of 
Proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published 
9s r e q m r e d by said Act. 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on 
the 
competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the 
S t r o l l e r of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
B°ard has considered all relevant material contained in the record in 
the 
6 ^ight of the factors set forth in the Act, including the effect of 

387 
-2-
the proposal on competition, the financial and managerial resources and 
Prospects of the banks conccrned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served, and finds that: 
Union Bank (deposits $1.5 billion) is the seventh largest bank 
ir* California, having about 3.3 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
i n the State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1970.) It operates 
its main office and 16 branches in southern California; in northern 
California it maintains eight offices in and in close proximity to San 
Francisco, and one office in San Jose, The Stanford Bank (deposits 
million) operates its sole office in Palo Alto, California, and it 
competes with 43 offices of 11 banks, including 35 offices of five of 
^ e six largest banks in the State, in a geographic area which lies 
between the communities of San Francisco and San Jose. The nearest 
offices of Union Bank to The Stanford Bank are the recently opened 
(September 14, 1970) office of Union Bank in San Jose, located 24 miles 
s°utheast of Palo Alto, and the offices of Union Bank in downtown San 
Pr 
rancisco, located 30 miles north of Palo Alto. There are located in 
th 
G densely populated areas intervening between the present offices of 
Un*on Bank and The Stanford Bank numerous offices of other banks. There 
*s> therefore, no substantial existing competition between Union Bank and 
T h e Stanford Bank. 
Under California law both Union Bank and The Stanford Bank could 
be 
Permitted to establish de novo branch offices in the areas served by 
e other. The Stanford Bank is unlikely to establish such a de novo 

16 
-2-
branch office. It does not appear probable that Union Bank would establish 
a ^ novo branch office in the area served by The Stanford Bank in the 
immediate future. The largest shares of deposits in the market area served 
by The Stanford Bank are held by offices of large banking institutions -
fiank of America, Wells Fargo Bank and Crocker-Citizens National Bank. The 
Stanford Bank is the seventh largest bank located in its market area in 
terms of market area deposits held by banks located therein. In these cir-
tances, the amount of potential competition between the merging banks 
^ich would be eliminated in this market area by the proposed transaction 
is not significant; at the same time, Union Bank's entry into the market 
acquisition of The Stanford Bank would likely result in increased 
c°ropetition in the market between it and the larger banks located in 
the market. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
the proposal would not eliminate significant existing or potential 
^Petition. Considerations relating to the financial and managerial re-
8°urces and future prospects of the banks involved are consistent with 
aPproval of the application. Customers of The Stanford Bank would benefit 
y the merger because Union Bank would offer to them a wider range of bank-
n8 services and through its larger lending limit would be better able to 
the needs of medium-sized business customers. Convenience and 
8 considerations are, therefore, consistent with approval of the appli-
°n* 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed merger 
S i d u 
u be in the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 

389 
-4* 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that 
the merger so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later than three 
months after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 11, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 
20551 
39D 
Item No. 2 
2/11/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
February 11, 1971 
Board of Directors 
First Bank & Trust Company 
Colonial Heights, Virginia 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of First Bank & Trust Company, Colonial 
Heights, Virginia, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond effective if and when the bank opens for business under 
appropriate State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth; 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $250,000, and other capital funds of 
not less than $350,000. 

B O A R D 
DF G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
JL 
Board of Directors 
-2-
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, to-
gether with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond. Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment 
for an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept 
the deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and that 
the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued 
to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

392 
Item No. 3 
2/11/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST VIRGINIA BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Arlington, Virginia, 
for approval of acquisition of 90 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
First Bank & Trust Company, Colonial 
Heights, Virginia, a proposed nex* bank, 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of First Virginia Banlcshares 
Corporation, Arlington, Virginia ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of First Bank & Trust 
Company, Colonial Heights, Virginia, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 

Banking for the State of Virginia and requested his views and recom-
mendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 25, 1970 (35 Federal Register 19645), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communi-
ties to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the sixth largest banking organization, and 
the fourth largest bank holding company in Virginia, controlling 
14 banks with $446.5 million in deposits. This represents 6.1 per 
cent of total banking deposits in the State of Virginia. 
(Bank-
ing data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding 
company acquisitions and formations approved by the Board to date.) 
Since Bank is a proposed new bank, consummation of the proposal 
would not increase concentration in any market. 

Bank primarily would serve the cities of Petersburg and 
Colonial Heights, and adjacent portions of Chesterfield County, 
and would be in competition with 16 offices of 11 banking institu-
tions. The closest office of any of Applicant's subsidiaries, 
Richmond National Bank (deposits $23 million), is located more 
than 20 miles from Bank. Consummation of the proposed transaction 
would neither eliminate existing competition, foreclose potential 
competition, nor have adverse effects on the viability or com-
petitive effectiveness of any competing banks, but might stimulate 
competition in the Colonial Heights-Petersburg market. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area, and might have a pro-
competitive effect in the Colonial Heights-Petersburg area. The 
banking factors, as applied to the facts of record, and considera-
tions relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served are consistent with approval of the application. It is 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the 
Public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of 

3P5 
-4-
this Order; and that First Bank & Trust Company shall be opened 
for business not later than six months after the date of this 
Order. The latter time periods may be extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 11, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

396 
Item No. 
3 
2/11/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
FIRST UNION, INCORPORATED, 
1 
St. Louis, Missouri, 
' 
for approval of the acquisition of 80 1 
per cent or more of the voting shares ' 
of Bank of Springfield, Springfield, ' 
Missouri. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Union, Incorporated, St. 
Louis, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board1s prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent 
°r more of the voting shares of Bank of Springfield, Springfield, 
Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 

Finance of the State of Missouri and requested his views and recommenda-
tion. The Commissioner advised that he had no objection to approval of 
the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 24, 1970 (35 Federal Register 19595), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such 
consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant has two subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of 
$721 million, representing 7.1 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deposits in the State, and is the third largest banking organization 
and third largest bank holding company in Missouri. (All banking data 
are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company acquisitions 
and formations approved by the Board to date)• 
Bank, with deposits of $8 million, is one of the smaller banks 
in Springfield, and ranks sixth among the eight banks in that city and 

398 
-3-
sixth among the twelve banks in Greene County, which approximates the 
relevant banking market. Bank holds 3.3 per cent of commercial bank 
deposits in the market area. Each of Applicant's present subsidiary 
banks is located more than 200 miles from Bank, and neither of them 
appears to compete with Bank to any significant extent. In the light 
of the facts of record, including Missouri's restrictive branching law 
and the distances separating Applicant's present subsidiaries from Bank, 
the development of such competition in the future is not considered 
likely. Since three of the Springfield banks (including the two largest 
on the basis of deposits) are subsidiaries of bank holding companies, 
Bank's affiliation with Applicant should foster competition by enabling 
Bank to become a stronger competitor to the local banks. It appears 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not eliminate any 
meaningful competition or foreclose significant potential competition, 
and would not have any undue adverse effects on other banks in the 
area involved. 
Based upon the record before it, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect 
competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, as they relate 
t o Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are regarded as consistent 
With approval of the application. Considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend some weight 
in support of approval since Bank, through participations with Applicant's 
subsidiaries, should be able to provide an additional source for larger 

399 
U4<i> 
loans in the expanding Springfield area. It is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period shall be extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 11, 1971. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No 
C H A I R M A N O P T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
2/11/71 
February 11, 1971 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban A f f a i r s 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear M r . 
Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for comments on S. 19 and 
S. 581 , bills to amend the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945. 
The Board continues to recommend against enactment of those 
provisions of the bills that would exclude the Bank's receipts and 
disbursements f r o m the totals of the budget of the U. S. Government 
and exempt them f r o m any annual expenditure and net lending 
limitations imposed on the budget. 
These provisions would make 
possible an expansion of Export-Import Bank operations by freeing 
them f r o m budget restraints imposed on other Federal programs. 
Such restraints are designed to limit the demands of the Govern-
ment on the real resources of the economy and to enable the 
Congress and the Administration to establish priorities among 
Federal programs, so that the maximum benefit is derived f r o m 
the total outlays of the Government. 
If this exclusion f r o m the budget is to have any effect, it v/ill be to 
allow Export-Import Bank outlays to exceed those that it would make 
Under present restraints. 
A s a result, total Federal outlays will 
rise without being reflected in the budget totals, or the Bank's 
increased outlays will cause a reduction in other Federal programs 
that would otherwise have been accorded a higher priority. 
If the Bank's operations are sufficiently different f r o m those of 
other Federal agencies to exclude them f r o m the budget process, 
may be that the best answer lies in converting the Bank to a 

The Honorable John Sparlcman 
- 2 -
401 
private institution, as has been done with the Federal National 
Mortgage Association. 
Such a solution would provide the Bank 
with the flexibility it seeks, without doing violence to the principles 
of the unified budget. 
The Board has no recommendations with respect to the other 
provisions of the bills. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

B O A R D OF G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
402 
Item No. 6 
2/11/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO TH E HOAR D 
February 12, 1971 
Mr. C. William Fischer 
A ssistant Director f o r 
Legislative Preference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. 
Fischer: 
I am writing in response to your request for comments on 
the Treasury draft bill to make permanent the interest rate ceiling 
authority provided in Public Law 89-597. 
The Board strongly 
favors making that authority permanent, and accordingly supports 
the f i r s t section of the draft bill. 
The flexibility provided by the 
1966 amendments to the rate ceiling law has proved highly useful 
in moderating strains on financial markets in recent years. 
Provisions of such demonstrated value should not be allowed to 
expire. 
Section 2 of the draft bill would authorize imposition of 
rate ceilings on insured credit unions. 
It seems clear that there 
18 n o need for such authority now, and it raises questions, such 
as whether it would be fair or effective to impose ceilings on 
insured credit unions without covering those not insured. 
Barrin° 
some greater demonstration of need, the Board recommends 
against extending ceilings to credit unions. 
V e r y truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

res^ : 
B D A R D O F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
403 
Item No. 7 
2/11/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 11, 1971 
TRW, Inc. 
TRW Systems Group 
One Space Park 
Redondo Beach, California 
90278 
Attention Mr. E. M. Foley, Vice President and General Manager 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System hereby 
accepts, subject to certain modifications described below, your pro-
posal, A Proposal to Analyze and Model the Payments Mechanism Network, 
which was enclosed with your letter of December 21, 1970, at a cost 
not to exceed $214,750. The proposal (submitted in three parts: 
Volume I, Project Plan; Volume II, Price Summary; and Executive Summary) 
is in response to the requirements as set forth in Phase I Project Speci-
fications, dated June 1, 1970, together with the Addendum thereto, dated 
November 30, 1970, as prepared by the Payments Mechanism Project Staff 
for the Federal Reserve System Steering Committee on Improving the 
Payments Mechanism. 
The modifications to the proposal are as follows: 
1. TRW will commence performance under the contract on 
February 15, 1971. 
2. During the first phases of this project, members of 
the Payments Mechanism Project Staff and TRW will develop 
jointly data requirements and definitions. Since this 
activity will have some effect on and improve the visibility 
of the cost of the project, TRW will submit a revised estimate 
of total price to the System Steering Committee on Improving 
the Payments Mechanism no later than the end of the sixth 
week following the contract date. 
3. The Board will be billed monthly by TRW on the basis 
of time and material used. 

BOARD 
OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
404 
- 2 -
4. Upon giving TRW fifteen days notice, the Board may 
terminate the Phase I study effort at the end of any month. 
It is further understood and agreed between the contracting 
parties that the General Provisions covering Government supply contracts 
set forth in Standard Form 32 (copy attached), as amended by deletion of 
Items 7, 8, 9, and 21, are incorporated into this contract by reference; 
and that, for purposes of this contract, the terms "Government" and 
"Comptroller General" as used in said Standard Form 32 shall mean the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
If the proposal as modified herein meets with your approval, 
please signify your acceptance on the enclosed copy of this letter and 
return it to the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary 
Enclosures 
ACCEPTED: TRW, Inc. 
by: 
Title: 
Date: 

m m m m m m m m w m m m ^ m m m m m a ^ m m m m ^ - , - ^ 
•'•••' 
- 
i 
c ir-v jt 
/. j•' 
(D] ]«e (<- i r? !«> W 
fr 
.,, k 
k ip \g k 
& 
, 
k 
II 2 k 's \ ' 4 e 5 
^ 
ft I 
1* 
v 
if 
(o- * & 
^m&w&mmizmmm 
I'n'.Ufcfli •! jiilfll 
Item No. 
2/11/71 
For immediate release 
February 16, 1971 
The Federal Reserve has awarded a contract to the Systems 
Application Center of TRW, Inc., Redondo Beach, California, to develop 
a computer model that will simulate the nation's payments mechanism, 
the Board of Governors announced today. 
The $214,750 contract is part of the System's over-all effort 
to improve the mechanism through which funds are transferred from one 
person or corporation to another. The computer model will portray the 
flows of checks and other cash items within and among the cities where 
the Federal Reserve maintains offices. 
Primary purposes of the model will be to determine the 
future potential of the existing check collection network and in the 
light of technological developments to evaluate possible alternatives 
.to the present system. The model and accompanying analysis will pro-
vide the Federal Reserve with a more thorough delineation of the payment 
system processes, functions, costs and operations as well as provide 
detailed characteristics of check traffic through the payments mechanism. 
por example, the model will permit investigation of causes of delays 
in the flow of checks that may be due to clearing arrangements, trans-
« 
Portation bottlenecks or processing practices. Check traffic will also 
be correlated with demographic and economic conditions to permit pro-
jections of future check volumes. 

406 
-2-
The contract will extend for six months beginning February 15, 
1971. As an incident to the model development, TRW and the Federal 
Reserve will survey commercial banks, clearinghouses and Federal Reserve 
offices to determine more precisely the volume and value of cash items 
flowing within and among major cities across the country. 
In awarding the contract, the Board acted on the recommenda-
tion of the Federal Reserve System Steering Committee on Improving the 
Payments Mechanism. Governor George W. Mitchell is Committee chairman. 
Other members are Governors Sherman J. Maisel and William W. Sherrill; 
Aubrey N. Heflin, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond; 
George H. Clay, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City; 
Eliot J. Swan, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco; 
William F. Treiber, first vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f New York, and Ernest T. Baughman, first vice president of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
The objectives of the steering committee are to define and 
direct the role of the Federal Reserve as changes in the national pay-
ments mechanism occur, and to insure that the Federal Reserve provides 
the technological capability to accommodate payments services needed by 
public. 
-0-
