MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 25, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
Squired to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
reduction at Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. Louis. 
U- :« 

504 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, February 25, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
• ; 
• 
v 
. 
. . 
, 
, 
„ . 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Miss Wolcott and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical 
Assistants, Office of the Secretary 
The staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial 
review. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the in-
dividual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed matters of interest to the Federal 
Reserve presently being considered by the Congress. 
Other o f f i c e r s and staff of the Division also were present. 

505 
2/25/72 
-11-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. On February 24, 1972, the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis had established, subject to review 
and determination by the Board of Governors, a rate of 4 per cent (a 
decrease from 4-1/2 per cent) on discounts for and advances to member 
banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, a rate of 
4-1/2 per cent on advances to member banks under section 10(b) of the 
A-Ct, and a rate of 6 per cent on advances to individuals, partnerships, 
and corporations other than member banks under the last paragraph of 
Q > 1 
section 13 of the Act. 
(The Board had disapproved on February 18, 
1972, proposals for discount rate reductions by the Federal Reserve 
• - i !• • • 
.. <•',' ;.:>'• , J 
. 
• 
• .• 
Banks of Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Kansas City.) 
i " 
' iif ! J. L' i , ' ' i • '» 
: C j 
1 '.•.,! i • • i 
The Board by unanimous vote disapproved the discount rate 
j ' : . 
: 
; .... En-
action taken by the St. Louis Bank for reasons similar to those ex-
Pressed in its disapproval on February 18. Particular note was taken 
>ft 4 , 1 , 1 - 
V- 
» » 
,' / 
j 
the adverse impact that the proposed reduction could have on the 
i j
international position of the dollar at a time when it remained under 
Selling pressure. It was understood that the St. Louis Bank would be 
advised of the Board's action by telephone today, and that a letter 
informing the Bank of the Board's decision would also be sent. A 
CoPy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
> 

506 
2/25/72 
-11-
Other discount rates. The Board then approved unanimously 
action taken by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on February 18, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond on February 23, and by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, 
and Dallas on February 24, 1972, establishing without change the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to the 
respective Banks. 
Several members of the staff who had attended the earlier 
Portion of the meeting then reentered the room, along with the 
following: 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Miss Stockwell, Assistant Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Other appropriate supporting staff 
Mr. Schultz , Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago 

2/25/72 
-4-
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to State Bank and Trust Company of Petoskey, Petoskey, Michigan, 
approving the issuance of capital notes. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
approval on February 17, 1972, of the applications of The Jacobus 
Company and Inland Financial Corporation, both of Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Heritage Bank-Mayfair, Wauwatosa, 
Wisconsin. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Florida 
Bancorp, Inc., Pompano Beach, Florida, to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of shares of Pompano Beach Bank and 
Trust Company and Oceanside Bank, also of Pompano Beach, and 
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A 
c°Py of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Barnett 
Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Barnett Bank of West Orlando, Orlando, Florida, a proposed new bank, 
atld authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A 
copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First 
Tennessee National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to The Kingsport National Bank, 

^
•
•
•
^
•
•
n
H
n
n
H
H
H
i
l
i
^
^
H
H
H
i
l 
508 
2/25/72 
-5-
Kingsport, Tennessee, and authorized the issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item 
The Board approved unanimously the application of U.S. Bancorp, 
Portland, Oregon, to retain shares of U.S. Datacorp, also of Portland, 
a n d authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A 
copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Third National Bank. In a memorandum dated February 14, 19 72, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of Third National Bank, Nashville, Tennessee, to es-
tablish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, West 
Indies. The Division stated that the application was the first one 
filed for the establishment of a "shell" branch in the Cayman Islands; 
the branch would be operated in the same manner as the shell branches 
located in Nassau. 
After discussion, the Board approved the application, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting and Governor Sheehan abstaining. A 
copy 0f the letter sent to Third National Bank is attached as Item 
No^J}. 
Riggs National Bank. In a memorandum dated February 11, 19 72, 
fche Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
aPplication of The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D. C., 
Washington, D. C., to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. 
id 

2/25/72 
-4-
After discussion, the Board approved the application, 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the letter sent 
to The Riggs National Bank is attached as Item No. 9. 
SBA bill. The Office of Management and Budget had requested 
the Board's views on a bill proposed by the Small Business Administra-
tion to amend the Small Business Investment Act to (1) restore the 
authority of banks to acquire majority ownership of small business 
investment companies, and (2) increase the ceiling on Federal assis-
tance to small business investment companies to the extent of their 
investments in companies engaged in innovative technology. In a 
memorandum dated February 23, 1972, the Legal Division recommended 
that the Board support the proposal, but suggested that as an addi-
tional safeguard to insure the separation of banking from commerce, 
the bill should be modified to include a divestiture requirement 
relating to companies that outgrew specified size criteria for small 
business concerns. A draft letter reflecting the Division's 
recommendation was attached to the memorandum. 
Comments indicated general agreement with the purpose of the 
Proposed bill. However, it was suggested that if the Board recommended 
a Modification with respect to divestiture by bank-controlled small 
business investment companies of controlling interests in small 
business concerns that grew to the point of dominance in their 
^-ndustries, it should also recommend that regulatory authority be 

510 
2/25/72 
-11-
vested in the Federal bank supervisory agencies. Another view favored 
vesting such regulatory authority in the Board alone or in the Small 
Business Administration in order to achieve uniformity of approach. 
In this connection, it was suggested that the SBA would be in a better 
Position to impose regulations with regard to size limitations. 
Reservations were expressed with respect to the consistency of the 
legislative proposal as regards control with the spirit of the Bank 
Holding Company Act. Other reservations were voiced concerning bank 
involvement in the venture capital industry. 
Continuing discussion developed support for a modified proposal 
relating to regulation of divestitures of certain small business con-
cerns by bank-controlled small business investment companies, and it 
W a s understood that the staff would obtain the reactions of the other 
Federal bank supervisory agencies and the Small Business Administration 
with respect thereto. 
(The letter to 0MB was brought back to the Board 
further consideration on February 29.) 
Float. In a memorandum dated February 18, 1972, Governor 
Mitchell proposed that the Board publish in the Federal Register for 
comment amendments to Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other 
Items by Federal Reserve Banks, that would reduce Federal Reserve 
float. The subject had been the focus of study by the System Steering 
Committee for Improving the Payments Mechanism for some time. The 
comments of the Reserve Banks on draft amendments previously circulated 

511 
2/25/72 
-11-
were discussed in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
February 24, 1972. 
At today's meeting Governor Mitchell outlined the issues 
involved, some of which related to the question of equity among 
banks while others were political in nature. He suggested that 
combining the requirement to pay on presentment with a substantial 
release of reserves, such as would occur upon adoption of a proposal 
Pending before the Board to restructure member bank reserve require-
ments, would doubtless dilute opposition to both proposals. Mr. 
Schultz then described the check collection process and commented 
on various aspects of the problem of float. 
Comments indicated that members of the Board viewed the 
Proposed amendments to Regulation J favorably, and there was agree-
ment with the suggestion that the proposal should be discussed with 
°ther agencies participating in the Coordinating Committee on Bank 
Regulation. However, it was the consensus that action on the pro-
posal should be taken in conjunction with a move on reserve requirements. 
Accordingly, it was understood+that the matter would be brought back 
t o the Board for further discussion at a time when active consideration 
Was being given to proposals to restructure reserve requirements. 
Finance company paper. In a memorandum dated February 14, 
i*9'72, Mr. Hackley recommended that the 1965 published interpretation 
the Board regarding eligibility of consumer loans and finance 

512 
2/25/72 
-11-
company paper for discount with and as collateral for advances by 
the Reserve Banks be amended so as to liberalize or clarify that 
interpretation in certain respects. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation. A copy 
°f the revised interpretation subsequently published in the Federal 
Register is attached under Item No. 10, along with a copy of the 
letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Truth in Lending. With a memorandum dated February 25, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation submitted a draft reply 
to Senator Proxmire's request for specific language to implement the 
Board's recommendations to Congress, made in its 1971 Annual Report 
°n Truth in Lending, for amendments to the Truth in Lending Act. 
After discussion during which suggested changes were agreed 
uPon, the Board approved the transmittal of a letter to Senator 
Proxmire in the form attached as Item No. 11. 
Mountain Banks, Ltd. In memoranda dated February 11, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the applications of Mountain Banks, Ltd., Colorado Springs, Colorado, 
(1) to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares 
the following Colorado banks: The Exchange National Bank of 
Colorado Springs, Colorado Springs; The First National Bank of 
Pueblo, Pueblo; Cherry Creek National Bank, Denver; South Denver 
National Bank, Glendale; and Park National Bank of Pueblo, Pueblo; 

513 
2/25/72 
-11-
and (2) to acquire shares of nonbanking subsidiaries of Rocky 
Mountain Financial Services, Inc., Colorado Springs, Colorado, as 
follows: Plaza Finance Company, Pueblo; Valley Industrial Bank, 
Blende; Bankers Motor Leasing, Inc., Colorado Springs, all in 
Colorado; and Cherokee Life Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona. 
The Board approved unanimously the applications, and 
authorized the issuance of orders reflecting that decision. Copies 
of the orders are attached as Items 12 and 13. 
Armored car and courier services. In November 1971 the Board 
had published for comment a proposal to amend Regulation Y, Bank 
Holding Companies, so as to add armored car and courier services to 
the list of activities previously found by the Board to be so closely 
related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be permissible 
for bank holding companies..r Subsequently, the National Courier Asso-
ciation and the National Armored Car Association asked that the Board 
include in its notice of proposed rule making an informative preamble 
that would set out in reasonable detail considerations that led to the 
decision of the Board to issue the proposed amendment to Regulation Y. 
a memorandum dated February 24, 1972, the Legal Division recom-
mended that the petition be denied, on the grounds that the Associations 
W ere well aware of the issues involved and the petition was just one 
m°re maneuver in a series of delaying tactics. Attached to the memo-
randum was a draft order reflecting the Legal Division's recommendation. 

514 
2/25/72 
-11-
Following discussion, the Board authorized the issuance of 
the order in the form attached as Item No. 14. 
Applications denied by a State. In a memorandum dated 
February 23, 1972, Mr. Leavitt recommended that the Board adopt certain 
procedures with respect to bank holding company applications in those 
instances where disapproval action by the appropriate State banking 
authority would preclude consummation of the proposed acquisition. 
Mr. Leavitt proposed that a notice be published in the Federal Register 
in order that applicants might be officially informed of the Board's 
policy in this regard, and submitted a suggested paragraph that would 
accomplish this purpose. 
Following discussion, the procedure recommended was approved 
unanimously, subject to modification of the proposed notice in certain 
respects. A copy of the notice in the form published in the Federal 
I > : ; : • H 
• ( . 
Register is attached as Item No. 15. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
515 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
2/25/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A H O R E U B 
O F F I C I A L 
C O f R E S P O N P E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
H D A F i D 
F e b r u a r y 25, 197 2 
Mr. Darryl R. F r a n c i s , 
President 
F e d e r a l R e s e r v e Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, M i s s o u r i 
64198 
Dear M r . 
F r a n c i s : 
The Board voted today to disapprove the action 
by the directors of your Bank on February 24 to reduce 
the discount rate f r o m 4 - 1 / 2 to 4 per cent. 
The B o a r d ' s 
decision was taken for reasons similar to those c o m m u n i -
cated to you in m y letter of February 18. 
M e m b e r s of the Board understand, and a r e 
appreciative of the considered judgment e x p r e s s e d by your 
d i r e c t o r s in carrying out their statutory responsibilities 
in this matter. 
Sincerely yours, 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
516 
Item No. 2 
2/25/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
February 25, 1972 
Board of Directors 
State Bank and Trust Company 
of Petoskey 
Petoskey, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $500,000 
in subordinated capital notes by State Bank and Trust Company of 
Petoskey, Petoskey, Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago. This approval is given on the condition 
that the capital notes cannot be called for redemption prior to 
maturity without the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval 
is granted with the understanding that the sale of these capital 
debentures will be consummated within six-months from the date of 
this letter. It is further understood that any advertising with 
respect to the obligations will, in addition to being in compliance 
vith the provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly 
distinguish the nature of the obligation from a deposit, including 
% 
setting forth in bold face type that the obligation is subordinated 
to the claims of depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit 
insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

517 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/25/72 
THE JACOBUS COMPANY AND 
INLAND FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Jacobus Company ("Jacobus") and its majority owned 
8ubsidiary Inland Financial Corporation ("Inland"), both of Milwaukee, 
iSconsin, bank holding companies within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
CoiIlPany Act, have applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of 
the
 Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a) (3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' 
qUalifying shares) of the voting shares of Heritage Bank-Mayfair, 
u^atosa, Wisconsin ("Bank"). The acquisition will be made by Inland 
9tUi as a result Jacobus will indirectly acquire voting shares of the Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
aCc°*dance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
Vievs has expired. The Board has considered the applications and all 
c°%ents received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicants control one bank with aggregate deposits of 
appr°Ximately $46 million, representing 0.5 per cent of the commercial 
deposits in Wisconsin. Since Bank was only opened on December 13, 
197] 
» its acquisition by Applicants would not significantly increase 
th*ir v 
share of deposits in any relevant area. 

w 
518 
- 2 -
Applicants1 only banking subsidiary is located in the Milwaukee 
area which includes Wauwatosa. However, that subsidiary controls under 
* 
per cent of deposits in the market and the acquisition of Bank 
vti, 
A not have any significant adverse effects on present or potential 
^Petition. Rather, Bank's acquisition by Applicants could have a 
h v . 
Competitive impact on the Milwaukee area, since affiliation of Bank 
n inland 
should make Bank a stronger competitor in an area where 
are many subsidiaries of major Wisconsin bank holding companies. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicants, its subsidiary bank, and Bank are generally satisfactory 
insistent with approval of the application. In this connection, 
^Plicants have assured the Board that the acquisition debt relating 
° Bank will shortly be paid off through the proceeds obtained from 
o f capital stock. Considerations relating to the convenience of 
the 
c°mmunity to be served lend some weight for approval of the 
Nations, since Bank proposes to offer some services which are 
widely available in the area at the present time. 
Jacobus is a bank holding company only through its ownership 
0f Im 
aj-and. To be able to expand its activities outside of the field 
ba u 
inking, Jacobus has filed an irrevocable declaration with the 
u Pursuant to 12 CFR 225.4(d) that it will cease to be a bank 
company by January 1, 1981. Normally, the Board would not 
° V e acquisition of another bank by a company that has filed such 

519 
- 2 -
an application. However, Jacobus has committed itself to divest itself 
0f its interest in Inland within 90 days of the passage of any enabling 
leSislation permitting distribution of Inland shares to Jacobus share-
elders on a tax free basis. Legislation is pending which is similar 
to ^at included in the original Bank Holding Company Act, and under 
the Proposed legislation Jacobus could divest itself of Inland on 
a tax free basis. Inland would thereupon become an independent 
^Ui-bank holding company. Thus, approval of the application would 
1)6 in the public interest by separating nonbanking activities from 
banking at an earlier time than divestiture is required by statute. 
Upon consummation of the proposed transaction, Jacobus 
Shall divest itself of Inland within 90 days of the passage of 
le£i8lation such as referred to above, and, in any event, Applicants 
8^ aU not retain or acquire any nonbank shares or engage in any non-
activities to a greater extent or for a longer period than 
Woulc* apply i n the case of a bank holding company which became such 
°n the date of such consummation, except to the extent otherwise 
Pe*mitted in any regulation of the Board hereafter adopted specifically 
to the effect of the acquisition of an additional bank on 
the 
8tatus of nonbank shares and activities of a one-bank holding 
A -
pa*iy formed prior to 1971, or unless the Board fails to adopt any 
regulation before the expiration of two years after the consumma-
te 
the proposed acquisition. 

: 
520 
- 4 -
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°nsunimated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
. i 
0f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°rder» unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r bY the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ 
February 25, 1972. 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
k V; 
4:S 
lipping for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sheehan. 
m 

521 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
2/25/72 
FLORIDA BANCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Florida Bancorp, Inc., Pompano Beach, Florida, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
trough acquisition of 30 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
P°Npano Beach Bank and Trust Company ("Pompano Bank"), and Oceanside 
> both located in Pompano Beach, Florida, 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
a°cordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
0f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, an inactive corporation, was formed for the purpose 
of 
acquiring Pompano Bank (deposits of $30.3 million) and Oceanside 
(deposits of $9.0 million).""^ Applicant, upon consummation of 
Proposal, would control .4 per cent of aggregate commercial bank 
^Posits in Florida, and would become the State's 25th largest bank 
company. In the North Broward County-Boca Raton area (the 
m Levant banking market), Applicant would become the fourth largest of 
8*ven 
market area deposits. 
competing banking organizations, and would control 11.7 per cent 
of 
Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
Nations and acquisitions approved through January 31, 1972. 
I 

522 
- 2 -
The two banks that would form the holding company group 
ar* located in Pompano Beach. In spite of the overlapping service 
area of the two banks, formation of the holding company would not 
eUminate any substantial amount of present competition nor would it 
likely foreclose potentia1 competition because of the close affiliation 
o f the two banks. Oceanside Bank was organized in 1969 by the stock-
riders of Pompano Bank; common stockholders have continuously owned 
mo*e than 51 per cent of the stock of both banks. The two banks have 
a common auditor, share advertising, participate a substantial amount 
o f loans with the other, and their disaffiliation appears unlikely. 
proposed holding company would compete with two bank holding 
companies in rapidly growing Broward County, and it appears that the 
f°rmation would not adversely effect other area banks. 
The management of Applicant and the banks to be acquired is 
generally satisfactory. Applicant plans to increase the capital of 
b o th banks; prospects for the group are favorable and banking factors 
a r e consistent with approval. Convenience and needs aspects of the 
Proposal are consistent with, and lend some weight toward approval. 
holding company form of organization xjould increase operating 
Efficiencies with respect to loan participations, trust and financial 
advisory services, purchasing, and the interchanging of personnel. 
It: is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be 
tn the public interest and that the application should be approved. 

- 2 -
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
0rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
February 25, 1972. 
e 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(SEAL) 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
1 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^tchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
GoVf 
'ernor Maisel. 
"I 
« H 
'•/•a;-
523 
! r.-^t 

524 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/25/72 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a 
hank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Barnett Bank of West Orlando, Orlando, Florida ("Bank"), a 
Pfoposed new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
a n d views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a l 1 comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
0 f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls 31 banks with aggregate deposits of about 
million, representing 6.4 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
i n Florida and ranking it third in the State. Since Bank is a proposed 
bank no existing competition would be eliminated, nor would con-
juration be increased in any relevant areas. 
Applicant presently operates four banks in the Orlando area; 
thr 
e e of these four are recently chartered and Applicant's share of 
^Posits in the Orlando area is 11.4 per cent. Consummation of the 
Pt°Posal will not place Applicant in a dominant position in the Orlando 

area since the largest organization has something over 40 per cent 
of 
area deposits, and two other organizations are approximately Appli-
cant's size. Significant barriers to entry will not be raised since 
the population per banking office in Bank's service area will still be 
relatively high. For these reasons and other facts of record, the 
Board concludes that consummation of the transaction will not adversely 
affect competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are generally satisfactory 
and consistent with approval of the application. Considerations relating 
t o the convenience of the community to be served lend some weight to 
approval of the application since the service area of Bank appears to 
b e relatively underbanked and would benefit from an additional source 
o f services. The Board finds that the proposed application is in the 
W 
c 
interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
m 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order; and 
Barnett Bank of West Orlando, Orlando, Florida, shall be opened 
f°r business not later than six months after the date of this Order. 

-3-
Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant 
t o delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
February 25, 1972. 
; 
> 
. , • 
\ 
- . 
•• . 
. 
• 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
lt:chell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
ernor Maisel. 

Item No. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/25/72 
FIRST TENNESSEE NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Tennessee National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of 
fche Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors1 
Qualifying shares) of the voting shares of the successor by merger 
t o The Kingsport National Bank, Kingsport, Tennessee ("Bank"). The 
bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except 
a s a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of 
Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares of the 
Accessor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition 
o f the shares of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with 2 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
a a d all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls three banks with total deposits of 
million, representing 10.4 per cent of total commercial deposits 
the State. (Banking data are as of June 30, 1971.) Acquisition 
o f Bank (deposits of $22.6 million) would not significantly increase 
^Plicant1 s share of total deposits in the State. 

528 
-2-
Bank operates four offices ia the Kingsport banking 
market which is approximated by the western portion of Sullivan 
County. Bank controls 21.G per cent of the deposits in the market 
ar*d is the second largest of three banks in that market. Applicant's 
subsidiary office closest to Bank is located seven miles away and 
is located in the Jonesboro banking market which is approximated 
ky Washington County; there is only nominal existing competition 
between Bank and Applicant's existing subsidiary. Consummation of 
proposal would eliminate only a small amount of existing corn-
Petition and would not adversely affect any competing bank in any 
relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and 
Bank are generally satisfactory and consistent with approval in that 
c°nsummation of the proposed transaction will enable Applicant to 
lengthen Bank's capital structure which, in turn, will enable 
to become a more effective competitor. Consummation of this 
Proposal would have beneficial effects on the convenience and needs 
the communities in that Bank's ability to compete for larger 
InH 
Qustrial and commercial accounts will be enhanced and de novo 
branch expansion by Bank into the Bristol market (which is located 
^Proximately 20 miles east of Kingsport) will be facilitated. 
C°nsiderations related to the convenience and needs of the communities 
0 he servedj therefore, lend some weight for approval. It is the 
Bo 
a r d ,8 judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
nterest and that the application should be approved. 

On the basis of the record* the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of St, Louis pursuant 
.. j 
c° delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!^ February 25, 1972, 
/' * ft v , 
v 
, 
'" 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
"-voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
fttchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan, Absent and not voting: 
G°vernor Maisel, 

530 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/25/72* ? 
U.S. BANCORP 
Order Approving Retention of Shares of U.S. Datacorp 
.. 
U.S. Bancorp, Portland, Oregoa, a bank holding company 
registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
has applied for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of the 
A ct and section 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to retain 
shares of U.S. Datacorp, Portland, Oregon. Notice of the applica-
tion, affording opportunity for interested persons to submit com-
e t s and views, was duly published (36 Federal Register 23840). 
^ e time for filing comments and views has expired, and none have 
been received. 
The Board has determined that certain types of data 
Processing activities are closely related to banking (12 CFR 
2^5.4(a)(8)). A bank holding company may own shares of a com-
pany engaged in such activities if such ownership is consistent 
. > 
with the relevant factors specified in section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act. 
Applicant's only banking subsidiary is United States 
Bank of Oregon (deposits $1.5 billion), the second 
largest bank in Oregon, with control of 37.7 per cent of the 
t o t al commercial bank deposits in the State. The data processing 
\ 

-2-
53i 
operations It formerly conducted were transferred to U.S. Datacorp 
when that company was organized by Applicant in January 1971 
(apparently on authority of section 4(c)(5) of the Act). Those 
operations were conducted principally in Portland, where the offices 
United States National Bank of Oregon were located. Applicant 
expanded the scope and range of U.S. Datacorp1s activities (all of 
type described in 12 CFR 225.4(a)(8)) by acquiring, immediately 
after the organization of Datacorp, the assets of Data Planning 
Corporation, Seattle, Washington, a going concern. (Hence, the 
Board treats the application to retain the shares of U.S. Data-
corp as an application also to retain the assets of Data Planning.) 
At the time of its acquisition by Applicant, Data Plan-
ning 
was offering data processing services in the local Seattle 
Market that were, for the most part, similar to the data pro-
cessing services offered by Applicant's subsidiaries. It was 
also supplying a computer output microfilm service, for which 
the relevant market included both Portland and Seattle. 
At the time of the acquisition, Applicant competed in 
the data processing field in Portland with three bank or bank-
delated firms and 36 other companies. Data Planning was com-
peting in the Seattle market with 42 banks and 80 other companies 
i n the data processing field. In view of the relatively small 
9l*ount of data procesaing performed by Applicant and Data Planning, 
large number of competitors In the market area of each, the 

distance between market areas, and other-such considerations, it 
aPPears that Applicant and Data Planning were not significant com-
petitors with each other at the time of the acquisition, nor that 
they would become such in the future. Moreover, it appears likely 
that U.S. Bancorp, through U.S. Datacorp,will be able to expand 
^ e range of services offered to the public. The Board concludes 
that the acquisition by Applicant of the assets of Data Planning 
not have significant anticompetitive effects; that the con-
tinued operation of U.S. Datacorp by Applicant will not have 
8lgnificant anticompetitive effects; and that, on balance, the 
Pnblic benefits to be expected by permitting U.S. Bancorp to 
retain shares of U.S. Datacorp outweigh any possible adverse 
effects on competition. 
On the basis of the foregoing and other considerations 
Reflected in the record, the Board has determined that the bal-
ance of the public interest factors the Board is required to 
c°nsider under section 4(c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, the 
^Plication is approved, and the Applicant is hereby permitted 
to 
engage in the activities conducted by U.S. Datacorp that are 
authorized 
by 12 CFR 225.4(a)(8). This determination is subject 
the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y 
""a to the Board's authority to require such modification or 

termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
wi-th the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion 
thereof, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
February 25, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
p*tchell, Daane, Briir.mer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
°v®rnor 
m m s p ! 
v°ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
'ernor Maisel. 

534 
Item No. 8 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
2/25/72 
/ i o f j o ^ . , 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
VP? 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
n . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
U r Fl n IA L 
C n i ! : J t ! i P D N D t N C t 
T U 
T H E 
l i D A D D 
February 28, 1972 
Jiira National Bank 
ashvilie Tennessee 37202 
G^tlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants its 
^tmission to Third National Bank, Nashville, Tennessee, pursuant to the 
viMdhs of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch 
in P 
ofOorgeLovzn, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, and to operate and maintain 
,lch branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
, 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
be used for developing new international business and not as a means 
shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States, It is 
tho° Unx*Grst:ood that there is to be no contact with the local public at 
0 k'canch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in 
> be supplied under contract by another party. 
pe 
In view of the special character of this operation, the foregoing 
£ ^salon is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these types of 
c°nd 
an<^ a ^ t e r c*uc n o t ;i c e may be withdrawn or modified, (2) the 
Unci 
l o n that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in this branch 
Vt^er Action 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the deduction pro-
late/. 
subparagraph (ii) of Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in 
i n f
V l S o C1) 
Section 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate 
0£f°"n,rUi-on covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
and will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives, 
should be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's 
^
s 
of operation, including changes in any contract under which services 
Applied to the branch. 
o^ 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for business 
r before March 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall be deemed to 
Di;^0 
abandoned and the authority hereby granted will automatically ter-
* t e on that date. 

535 
-2-
. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal Reserve 
nk of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business, furnishing information 
fs to the exact location of the branch. The Board should also be promptly 
tormed of any future change in location of the branch in Georgetown, Grand 
dayman „ 
at 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable only 
a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the United States 
Q the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations on rates of in-
br
reGt* Inscribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such 
at*ches are not generally subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D. 
general purpose of these exemptions is to allow, foreign branches of United 
^ a t e s banks to compete abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, 
to 
been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System 
U^.^-^oourage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
States banks unless such deposits have been placed to servo a definite, 
*8"ary purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
tside the United States. 
p 
^ 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
0l. v'uled by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, advances, 
c.fr^1aerwi.se) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes of the foreign 
iia 
rastraint effort. J.n view of the Board's concern with minimizing the 
-C 
foreign investments on the balance of payments, the above consent 
itig>?lven with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
4ct"lniUm reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United States, 
the i. 
it is understood that any investment required will be made within 
'°reign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
fi F 
•'» 
• tv.... 

B O A R D D F G DVER'N • R S 
o v V o ^ ; . . 
D F T H E 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2/25/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
tfMf 
. 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
February 28, 1972 
A D D R E S S 
U F r I C IA L C U R R ESi F>n N D E N 
m y 
, 
Riggs National Bank 
lc
of Washington, D. C. 
J03 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W. 
aslUngton, D. C. 20013 
Geilt lemon: 
D _ _ 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants its 
f i s s i o n to The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D. C. , Washington, D. C. , 
°uant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
a° 1-ish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such 
ai,ch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
b 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch will 
shifS<^ J"or developing new international business and not as a means of 
^ 
loans or deposits from officer, in the United Stales. It is also 
and^lr'tO0C* l'hat there is to be no contact with the local public at the branch, 
Su t\ia- i t s quarters, staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be 
'-'Plied under contract by another party. 
p0i. , 
In view of the special character of this operation, the foregoing 
fa ^f8-*-01"1 j-s granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these types of 
di^ ^ies, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, (2) the con-
^tui ° U that" reserves shall be maintained against deposits in this branch 
in 
^ect"ion 213 „ 7 of Regulation M without benefit of the deduction provided 
(^SubParagraph (ii) of Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso 
^at*0^ ^ect;ion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate infor-
a^d 
COvering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office 
B0 
be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. The 
of 
should be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods 
O p t i o n , including changes in any contract under which services are 
pPUed to the branch. 
On 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for business 
before March 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall be deemed to 
ttiin. 
abandoned and the authority hereby granted will automatically ter-
clt° on that date. 

m-M. 
r 4.'' ' • 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal Reserve 
^nk of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business. The Board should 
.. ,0 be promptly informed of any future change in location of the branch in 
N*ssau. 
^ 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Acts deposits payable only 
a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the United States 
. 
the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations on rates of 
, erest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such 
,^<riChes are not generally subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D. 
General purpose of these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United 
^ ates banks to compete abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it 
been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to 
^ Co'Jrage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United 
s banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
CRsary purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
si(*e the United States. 
by 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds provided 
lorTie office (whether in the form of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) 
be regarded as foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit re-
effort. In view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of 
tv "• S1' investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
.Urid®rstanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum 
a n° e 
be placed on resources obtained outside the United States, 
the. r 
nSly, it is understood that any investment required will be made within 
foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

I R i : 
538 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 10 
2/25/72 
S-2189 
A D D R L E j S 
O F F I C I A L CDRRESPHNOENCt 
T O 
T H E 
U C3 A R D 
February 23, 1972 
Qs 
Enclosed is a copy of an interpretation of the Board effective 
^ o f February 2.5, 1972, regarding the eligibility of consumer loans and 
fiance company paper for discount and as collateral for Reserve Bank 
dances. it replaces a 1965 published interpretation of the Board on 
same subject, 12 CFR 201.104. 
5q 
The new interpretation (1) establishes an assumption that 
ccnt of "direct consumer instalment loans" by a finance company 
io-t0 
there is no definite information as to the purpose of such 
tHc.nS c?,n ke regarded as "notes receivable which appear eligible for re-
lo
Sc*UTxt" in determining whether the amount of the finance company's 
" 
-for eligible purposes exceeds its current liabilities; (2) defines 
th.trent liabilities" as meaning "notes due within one year", rather 
t / n "liabilities maturing witliin one year", in order to exclude liabili-
5tv° 
a c c rued payroll and tax expenses; (3) makes it clear that notes • 
fy 
for the purchase of mobile homes, when acquired by a finance company 
c0u
 1 j|ealers, may be regarded as notes that "appear eligible for redis-
Cty*'' 
^ 
makes it clear that a note of an agricultural finance 
f0t
PanV engaged in making loans for agricultural purposes is eligible 
discount and as collateral for advances if it has a maturity of not 
than nine months. 
This interpretation will be published shortly in the Federal 
a t er and in the March 1972 issue of the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Very truly yours, 
'7 
A 
/ Tynan Smith 
/ 
Secretary 
El>cloaur e 
Jll? PRF'SIDF.NTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
D *HE VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

if 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF TIIE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 201--ADVANCES AND DISCOUNTS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
' : r !• 
Eligibility of Consumer Loans and Finance Company Paper 
Effective immediately,' S 201.104 is revised to read as follows: 
V 
. 
• .... .... 
S 201.104 Eligibility of consumer loans.and finance comeang 
paper. 
(a) The Board of Governors has clarified and modified its position 
"ith respect to the eligibility Of consumer loans and finance company paper 
{or discount with and as collateral for advances by the Reserve Banks. 
(b) Section 13, Paragraph X, of the Federal Reserve Act authori.es 
a Federal Reserve Bank, under certain conditions, to discount for member 
batH<o ••* * * notes, drafts,- and bills of exchange arising out of actual 
c°K»ercial transactions; that is, notes, drafts, and bills of exchange 
lo="ed or drawn for agricultural, industrial, or commercial purposes, or 
Proceeds of which have been used, or are to be used, for such purposes, 
th° Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to have the right to 
d*te r n l n c or define the character of the paper thus eligible for discount, 
vithln tllc meaning of this Act." 
(c) It continues to be the opinion of the Board that borrowing 
the purpose of purchasing goods is borrowing for a commercial purpose, 
the borrower intends to use the goods himself or to resell them. 
lte»cc, ,.0;jn3 made to enable consumers to purchase automobiles or other 
6o°ds s h o u l d b 0 included under commercial, agricultural, and industrial 

Paper within the meaning cf the Federal Reserve Act, and as such are eli-
Sible f o v discounting with the Reserve Banks and as security for advances 
' ^ f 1f ^ 
fj* 
the Reserve Banks under section 13, paragraph 3, of the Federal Reserve 
as long as they conform to requirements with respect to maturity and 
other matters. This applies equally to loans made directly by banks to 
c°nsumers and to paper accepted by banks from dealers or finance companies, 
tt i 
also applies to notes of finance companies themselves as long as the 
^oceeds of such notes are used to finance the purchase of consumer goods 
°l 
other purposes which are eligible within the meaning of the Federal 
*ea*tve Act. 
(d) If there is any question as to whether the proceeds of a note 
of; _ c. 
a finance company have been or arc to be used for a commercial, agri-
^tural, or industrial purpose, a financial statement of the finance 
fcp 
0lnPany reflecting an excess of notes receivable which appear eligible 
^discount (without regard to maturity) over total current liabilities 
notes due within one year) may be taken as an indication of eligi-
bji j AUy. Where information is lacking as to whether direct consumer loans 
by cl finance company arc for eligible purposes, it may be assumed that 
50 n 
1 
cent of such loans are "notes receivable which appear eligible 
discount". 
In addition, that language should be regarded as in-
u8 notes given for the purchase of mobile homes that are acquired 
by 
finance company from a dealer-seller of such hemes. 
(c) The principles stated above apply not only to notes of a 
cn°e company engaged in making consumer loans but also to notes of a 
^once company engaged in making loans for other eligible purposes, 
II ' ' t 

I1' - . 
.v' 
S t 
541 
o 
J 
•v. 
dividing business and agricultural loans. Under section 13a of the Federal 
eserve Act, paper representing loans to finance the production, marketing, 
carrying of agricultural products or the breeding, raising, fattening, 
* Marketing of livestock is eligible for discount if the paper has a 
purity of n o t exceeding nine months. Consequently, a note of a finance 
CorQPany the proceeds of which are used ?:>y it to make loons for such pur-
P°SGr' Is eligible for discount or as security for a Federal Reserve advance, 
8uch a note, unlike the note of a finance company making consumer loans, 
^y have a maturity of up to nine months. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 25, 1972. 
f y ;. 
u 
t 
(hi 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
i) ' 
X ih). \ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
... _ 
; i * > 

• 
* 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
OKTHE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 2CJ55I 
CT/1 O 
Item No. 11 
2/25/72 
O F F I C E G F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
F e b r u a r y 28, 1972 
ii-
V>* t ,-, 
honorable William Prcxmire, Chairman 
^"committee on Financial Institutions 
Jtanittee on Banking, Housing and 
Urban Affairs 
aited States Senate 
ugton, D. C. 20510 
ear Mr. Chairman: 
j 
In response to your request of January 12,' 1972, that the 
QQ
arc* supply specific language to implement its recommendations to 
. ^gress for amendments to the Truth in Lending Act contained in its 
c 1 Annual Report on Truth in Lending, we are pleased to submit the 
adi 
GU8S-stions for your consideration. Where language has been 
cd to existing provisions it has been underlined, and deletions are 
=iiiUlabUi tv 
The Board recommended that the Act's civil liability provisions 
L30 be amended to provide for a "good faith" defense similar to one 
^lltained in § 23(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 
,?<*>>. The Board suggests that the present § 130(d) be redesignated 
30(e) and a new § 130(d) be inserted as follows: 
, 
-v .; 
i U'W 
5 130(d) No provision of this section imposing any 
liability shall apply to any act done or omitted in good 
faith in conformity with any rule, regulation or inter-
pretation thereof by the Board, notwithstanding that 
such rule,, regulation or interpretation may, after such 
act or omission, be amended or rescinded or be deter-
mined by judicial or other authority to be invalid for 
any reasoru 

V 
" 
•• 
Honorable Y7illiara L'roxmire 
To deal with the problem of uncertainty about the scope 
the definition of "transaction" under § 130(a), to which the 
$100 minimum recovery of that section applies, the present § 130(e) 
8h°uld be redesignated § 130(g) and a new § 130(f) added. The new 
Provision is designed to insure that although there may have been 
^ItipiQ failures to disclose required information on an account 
°r in connection with a single credit transaction, for example, 
an omission occurs in a scries of periodic billing statements, 
the minimum recovery to a consumer would be a single $100. 
§ 130(f) The multiple failure to disclose to any 
person any information required under this chapter 
to be disclosed in connection with a single account 
under an open end consumer credit plan, other single 
x 
consumer credit sale, consumer loan or other extension 
of consumer credit, shall entitle the person to a 
single recovery under this section. 
. "^-fitlLjpf Rescission 
H 
The following addition to § 125 is suggested to set an 
°utsidc limit on' the time the right cf rescission may run. The recom-
Nidation is made to avoid clouds on the title to residential real 
estate, since under the present language of the Statute, the rescission 
might run indefinitely under certain circumstances. The follow-
8 addition is recommended: 
§ 125(f) A customer's right of rescission shall expire 
three years after the date of consummation of the trans-
action, notwithstanding the fact that the disclosures 
required under this section or any other material dis-
closures required under this chapter have not been 
delivered to the customer. 
, 
' To clarify the fact that the rescission right under § 125 
f aPPHcable to cases in which customers may lose their homes through 
'^closure under lien rights as well as under mortgages or deeds of 
I s t, the following indicated additions to the first sentences of 
(a) and (b) are suggested: 
3 ^ 3 
- 2 -

544 
Honorable William Proxmire 
-3-
§ 125(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
in the case of any consumer credit transaction in which 
a security interest, including; anv arising by operation 
of law, is or will be retained or acquired. . 
etc. 
(b) When an obligor exercises his right to rescind 
under subsection (a), he is not liable for any finance 
or other charge, and any security interest given by the 
ob1Igor, including any arising by operation of law, 
becomes void upon such a rescission. 
These changes are suggested in response to the opinion of • 
th* court in N. C. Freed Company. Inc. v. Board of Governors, U.S.D.C., 
W'l).N.\\, SeptT 29, 1971, 4 CCH Consumer Credit Guide «;99,356, which 
that 6 2^6.9(a) of Regulation Z, which implements § 125 of the 
^t, l 3 " i n v a l i d and null and void, and in excess of the power of#the 
Board granted to it by Congress, and not within the scope of Section 12j(a) 
• • .insofar as it relates to liens which may come into existence by 
Oration of law after midnight of the third business day following the 
of consummation of the credit transaction." The Board previously 
Gained a summary judgment in its favor in a similar suit in the United 
States District Court for the District of Columbia. Gardner and North 
ancl Sidinft Corp. v. Board of Governors, Jan. 6, 1971, 4 CCH 
Credit Guid e «j997621. 
M 
"^I'Jhgn- four-instalment rule 
To clarify the Act's application to transactions involving 
^°re than four instalments where no separately identifiable finance 
p r g e s are shown, the following indicated amendments to § 103(f) and 
121(a) are suggested: 
§ 103(f) The term "creditor" refers only to creditors 
who regularly extend, or arrange for the extension of, 
credit which is payable by agreement in more than 
four inTtaTmenTs^or for which the payment of a tinance 
' 
charge I S required, whether in connection with loans, 
sales of property or services, or otherwise. The pro-
visions of this title apply to any such creditor, ir-
respective of his or its status as a natural person or 
any type of organization. 

Honorable William Proxmire 
-4-
§121(a) Each creditor shall disclose clearly and 
conspicuously, in accordance with the regulations of 
the Board, to each person to whom consumer credit is 
extended^ »nd-ap©n-whom-A-cinaHee-eha*ge-i9-ae-»fiay-fee 
irapoaed the information required under this chapter, 
where 
C1) a finance charge is or may be imposed, or 
'(2) the extension of credit: is payable by agree-
ment in more than four instalments. 
These suggestions are in response to the opinion of the 
jilted States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Mourning v. 
tions Service, Inc., Sept. 27, 1971, 4 CCH Consumer 
^ d u Guide ^"99,337 which held that the Board exceeded its authority . 
in specifically defining "consumer credit" to include transactions 
Payable by agreement: in more than four instalments. This opinion was 
^°ntrary to the court's holding in Strompolos v. Premium Readers Service, 
S«r).C., N.D.lll., May 18, 1971, 4 CCH Consumer Credit Guide <199,471. 
In that case the court concluded that "the four instalment rule falls 
8<iuarely within the scope of the Act's provision authorizing the Board 
to Promulgate regulations that are proper or necessary to prevent cir.-
Cu®Vfcntion or evasion of the Act." 
•^Sieultural Credit 
The Board recommended that agricultural credit above an 
appropriate amount be excluded from the Act's coverage. The report 
0tails the lack of uniformity of view among the users of agricultural 
Ctodit as to whether it should be covered at all, or what limit might 
^Ope ri y b e p l a c e d on its coverage. Nevertheless the Board believes 
a t the responses received reinforce its view that some agricultural 
gt0(Ht should be exempt from coverage. While the Board is happy to 
u2gest language for the exclusion, and believes an exclusion of trans-
itions above $25,000 would alleviate the problem, it is aware that 
Pinions legitimately may vary about the appropriate amount. 
S 104(5) Credit transactions primarily for agricultural 
purposes in which the total amount to be financed exceeds 
$25,000. 

546 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
-5-
Adrninj_stra tive Enforcement 
To implement its recommendation for the transfer of certain 
io impif.mtuL i. 
« , p r a l Trade Commission to the i-arm 
enforcement jurisdiction from the Federal iiaae 
a d d i t i o n to 
Credit Administration, the Board suggests the following 
8 108: 
B 103(a)(7) the Farm Credit Act of 1971, by the Farm 
C
r
e
d
i
t Administration with respect to any Federal 
i 
a L n V 
Federal land bank association, Federal 
E i i S u t i l S i t ban,, or production credit assocra-
tion. 
we hope these suggestions will assist you in implementing 
the Board's recommendations. 
Sincerely, 
Q J 2 
a
g
f
e
^ 
/ / I L./Robertson 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MOUNTAIN BANKS, LTD. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Mountain Banks, Ltd., Colorado Springs, Colorado, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
through acquisition of 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Exchange National Bank of Colorado Springs, Colorado Springs 
("Exchange National"); The First National Bank of Pueblo, Pueblo 
("First National"); Cherry Creek National Bank, Denver ("Cherry Creek 
National"); South Denver National Bank, Glendale ("South Denver National"); 
Park National Bank of Pueblo, Pueblo ("Park National"), all in Colorado. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and views has 
e*Pired. The Board has considered the application and all comments 
Reived in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant proposes to acquire Cherry Creek National ($37.5 
Million in deposits), the eleventh largest of 81 banks in the Denver 
^anking market, and South Denver National ($10.2 million in deposits), 
ttle thirty-eighth largest bank in that market. Cherry Creek National 
Co*trols 1.4 per cent and South Denver National controls 0.4 per cent 
OF 
total deposits in commercial banks in the market. South Denver 
^ational has been affiliated with Cherry Creek National since it was 
547 
Item No. 12 
2/25/72 

KA JL 
- 2 -
organized in 1963; the President of Cherry Creek National serves also 
as chairman of the board of South Denver National, and more than 92 per 
cent of South Denver National's stock is owned by Cherry Creek National 
stockholders controlling 90 per cent of the stock of the latter bank. 
A change in this common control in the foreseeable future appears 
unlikely. 
Accordingly, consummation of the proposal would not appear 
to eliminate any meaningful existing or potential competition between 
the two banks. 
Applicant further proposes to acquire control of three other 
hanks now under common control: First National ($57.5 million in 
deposits), Park National ($4.7 million in deposits), and Exchange 
National ($72.6 million). One individual, through family holdings 
of stock and as beneficiary of family trusts, controls 52 per cent of 
first National, 63 per cent of Park National, and 55 per cent of Exchange 
National. First National, the largest bank in the Pueblo banking market, 
and Park National, the seventh largest of nine banks in that market, 
control 34.9 per cent and 2.8 per cent, respectively, of total deposits 
in commercial banks in the market. Park National was established in 
1963 as an affiliate of First National and has remained an affiliate 
since that time. Exchange National controls 13.7 per cent of total 
commercial bank deposits in the Colorado Springs banking market which 
^ located 43 miles south of Pueblo. In view of the existing relation-
ships between the banks and in view of the fact that these relationships 
appear unlikely to end in the foreseeable future, it appears that 
consummation of this proposal would not eliminate any meaningful 
listing or potential competition between these three banks. 

549 
- 2 -
The two banks in the Denver banking market are located 
approximately 65 miles from Exchange National and 108 miles from 
pirst National and Park National. In view of the distances separating 
the Denver area banks and the three other banks, the numerous inter-
r i n g banks, and Colorado1s laws prohibiting branching, there appears 
t o be no existing competition between the two groups, and such 
competition appears unlikely to develop. 
Consummation of the proposal would create the State's 
seventh largest banking organization and the sixth largest multi-
bank holding company, controlling 3.9 per cent of the State's total 
c°nimercial bank deposits. Applicant should thus be able to provide 
m°re effective competition to the other holding companies in the three 
banking markets where its proposed bank subsidiaries are located. 
Formation of the holding company would permit the banks 
t o make larger loans through participation agreements, would enable 
m° r e funds to be channeled into mortgage lending through Exchange 
National's mortgage lending department, and would coordinate and 
improve the effectiveness of the trust activities of First National 
a n d Exchange National. The banks should benefit from the savings 
^suiting from more efficient auditing, data processing, management 
Election, training and succession, and marketing functions, 
applicant also intends to construct new banking houses for Exchange 
National and Park National. Considerationa related to the convenience 
needs of the communities to be served lend weight toward approval. 

550 
- 2 -
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant are dependent on its proposed bank subsidiaries, all of 
whose resources and prospects are satisfactory and consistent with 
approval. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction is in the 
public interest and that the application should be approved. 
In connection with the present application, Applicant has 
applied to acquire substantially all of the nonbanking assets of 
Rocky Mountain Financial Services, Inc. a one-bank holding company 
presently owning Park National. This matter was separately considered 
by the Board under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and is the subject of another 
°rder issued today by the Board. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
^ (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors^ February 25, 1972. 
Voting for this action: 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
V o t i n g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^tchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
G°vernor Maisel. 

551 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/25/72* ^ 
MOUNTAIN BANKS, LTD. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Nonbanking Companies 
Mountain Banks, Ltd., has applied for the Board's approval 
under § 4(c)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) to acquire all the 
shares of each of the following companies: P l w a Finance Company, 
Pueblo, Colorado; Valley Industrial Bank, Blende, Colorado; Bankers 
Motor Leasing, Inc., Colorado Springs, Colorado; and Chtxokee Life 
Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona. These nonbanking companies, 
as well as a bank, are now owned by Rocky Mountain Financial 
Services, Inc., Colorado Springs, Colorado, a registered bank holding 
company. Mountain Banks, Ltd., has today received the Board's permission to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 51 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of five banks located in Colorado. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been duly 
Published. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a U those received have been considered. 
Plaza Finance Company is engaged in the business of a 
finance company. Valley Industrial Bank is engaged in the business 
o f an industrial bank and does not accept demand deposits. Both 
Plaza Finance Company and Valley Industrial Bank engage in certain 
insurance agency activities which are directly related to their 
^tensions of credit. Bankers Motor Leasing, Inc. engages in full 
\ f 

- 2 -
552 
Payment leasing of automobiles. The operation by a bank holding 
company of companies engaged in the above activities has previously 
been determined by the Board to be closely related to banking. 12 CFR 
225.4(a)(1), (2), (6), (9), (11). Cherokee Life Insurance Company 
formerly engaged in the business of reinsuring credit life and disability 
insurance but has terminated all business activities and Applicant is 
U o t seeking approval for it to engage in any activities. 
1/ 
Plaza Finance Company ($2.4 million in assets) 
is a 
c°nsumer finance company doing business in Pueblo, Colorado Springs, 
21 
^°ngmont, and Fort Collins." 
In Pueblo and Colorado Springs (where 
Applicant will have bank subsidiaries), Plaza Finance is a relatively 
Small competitor, having only $0.8 million of loans outstanding in 
*U*blo, and $0.4 million of loans outstanding in Colorado Springs; 
it appears that, in each city, over 50 companies make consumer loans. 
Ac 
Co*"dingly, the proposed acquisition of Plaza Finance would appear 
to have only very slight adverse effects on competition in the relevant 
Markets. 
Valley Industrial Bank makes consumer loans in the Pueblo 
Market, where Applicant has two bank subsidiaries. The industrial 
however, has only $1.1 million in outstanding loans in a market 
^ Asset data for Plaza Finance Company and for other proposed subsidiaries 
^ are as of December 1970. 
plaza Finance also owns First Industrial Loan Company, Greeley, Colorado, 
^ith outstanding loans of $0.3 million. 

where over 50 consumer lenders compete. Accordingly, the proposed 
acquisition of Valley Industrial Bank would appear to have only 
slightly adverse effects on competition in the Pueblo market. 
Bankers Motor Leasing, Inc., which leases automobiles in 
the Colorado Springs area, does not compete with any of the proposed 
subsidiaries of Mountain Banks, Ltd. There is no evidence in the 
record indicating that consummation of the proposed transactions would 
result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, 
conflict of interests, unsound banking practices, or other adverse 
effects on the public interest. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposed nonbanking acquisitions 
*ould result in greater efficiency through the use of centralized 
auditing and computer services. Several of the proposed subsidiaries 
aPpear to be unable to expand their activities significantly because 
they lack access to additional funds from banks or from their present 
Parent company, Rocky Mountain Financial Services, Inc. Mountain 
Banks, Ltd., which has access to substantial financial resources, 
c°uld provide these companies with needed funds, thereby allowing the 
companies to expand their services to the public. On balance, the 
Board concludes that these public benefits outweigh any adverse 
effects on competition. 
On the basis of the foregoing and other considerations 
^fleeted in the record, the Board has determined that the balance 

- 2 -
554 
Of the public interest factors the Board is required to consider under 
section 4(c)(3) of the Act is favorable, and the application is hereby 
approved. This determination is subject to the conditions set forth 
in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's determination 
°f the activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as 
the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or 
to prevent evasions thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors, V February 25, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Slieehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Maisel. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m No- 1 4 
2/25/72 
[12 CFR Part 225] 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Hearings Regarding Courier and Armored Car Services 
On January 20, 1972, the Board announced that it was appoint-
ing a hearing officer to consider whether armored car and courier ser-
vices are closely related to banking under the 1970 Amendments to the 
Bank Holding Company Act, and indicated that the hearing officer would 
resolve all matters relating to the number and identity of participants, 
time accorded to participants, the receipt of evidence, expert opinion, 
Abuttal, written and oral arguments and other presentations, and 
the desirability of use of a prehearing conference. 
A prehearing conference was held on February A pursuant to 
the hearing officer's direction. Following the conference the hearing 
officer issued an order on the conduct of the hearing and related 
Matters and postponed the hearing on courier services until February 29 
ar>d the hearing on armored car services until a later date to be speci-
fied by the hearing officer.--
In conjunction with procedural requests submitted to the 
bearing officer, the National Courier Association and the National 
Armored Car Association filed a petition with the Board asking that it 
delude in its notice of proposed rule making (Federal Register of 
November 17 , 1971, 36 F.R. 21897) 5 an informative preamble which will 
iHTiiSrIs"part of the original document. Copies available upon 
reqviest to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20551. 

- 2 - 
556 
set out in reasonable detail the considerations which led to the 
decision of the Board to issue the proposed amendment to Regulation Yr'. 
The Board has denied this request. The question whether 
bank holding companies should be permitted to engage in courier 
service activities was explored before Congressional committees in 
connection with, the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Congress did not: resolve the issue, rather it authorized the Board 
to determine whether that and any other activity "is so closely 
related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper 
incident thereto" as that language is used in section 4(c)(8) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act. Action by the Board on its proposal would 
resolve a matter that was intended by the Congress to be resolved by 
the Board. 
The Board believes that its prompt resolution of this matter 
V'ould serve the public interest. The Board's decision would be a 
step toward disposition of a long-standing controversy between persons 
vith adverse interests that has been pursued before other governmental 
agencies, including the Interstate Commerce Commission, in the Federal 
courts, and in the Congress. In the Board's judgment, the persons 
involved, including the Associations filing the petition, are 
V ell aware of the issues involved and have explored and studied them to 
the extent that further recitation of them by the Board—and further 
delay in resolution of this natter—would serve no useful purpose. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 25, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
• Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

FEDEML RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 15 
2/25/72 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Applications Denied by State Banking Authorities 
The Board of Governors has adopted procedures with respect 
to an application for the acquisition of voting shares of a bank by 
a bank holding company in circumstances where approval by the appro-
priate State banking authority is required but has been denied. 
Disapproval action by the appropriate State banking authority 
precludes consummation of the proposed acquisition. In these circum-
stances, the Board of Governors regards the application as moot and 
will take no action (approval or disapproval) 011 the merits. The 
application will be dismissed without prejudice and the case will be 
closed. 
If approval by the State authority of the proposed acquisi-
tion is obtained in the future, the Applicant may apply to the Board 
for reinstatement of the application or may file a new application for 
the proposed acquisition. The Board generally will permit reinstatement 
°f an application that has been dismissed, provided there have been no 
material changes in the facts, data, or circumstances relating to the 
proposed acquisition since the date of the original filing, and Appli-
cant provides appropriate documentation to that effect. If there have 
keen material changes, the filing of a new application based on current 
facts, data, and circumstances may be required. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 25, 1972. 
(seal) 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
