MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 27, 1968 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Wednesday, March 27, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the 
Board and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Keir, Assistant Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Doyle and Shuter of 
the Legal Division 
Mr. Walter of the Division of Bank 
Operations 
1/ Attended afternoon session only. 

118? 
3/27/68 
-6-
First National City Bank. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to First National City Bank, New York, New York, interposing no 
objection to its purchase of the remainder of the authorized capital 
stock of First National City Bank (International). A copy is attached 
as I tern No. 1. 
Los Angeles Branch. Unanimous approval was given to a telegram 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco authorizing it to proceed 
with the preparation of detailed plans and specifications for a proposed 
addition to the Los Angeles Branch building. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
During the discussion of this matter, question was raised 
whether the Los Angeles Branch should abandon its present facilities 
in favor of a new site. It was agreed that it would be appropriate to 
review that question in depth when the detailed plans for the proposed 
building addition were submitted to the Board for consideration. 
Separation of silver and clad coin. In October 1967 the Board 
had expressed the view that it would be appropriate for the Federal 
Reserve Banks, in compliance with a request from the Treasury, to 
cooperate in a program to separate silver and clad quarters and dimes 
that had been accumulating at Federal Reserve and Mint offices since 
July 1967, when it was decided not to recirculate silver quarters and 
dimes. The proposal contemplated that the Mint would acquire 14 
American Machine and Foundry separating machines, the Federal Reserve 

lib i 
3/27/68 
-3-
Bariks could assume the cost of acquiring and operating less sophisticated 
separating machines, and the operation would get under way by December. 
Detailed arrangements were to be handled by the Presidents' Conference 
through its Committee on Currency and Coin. 
A memorandum dated March 25, 1968, which summarized developments 
in the matter, pointed out that according to President Hickman, Chairman 
of the Committee on Currency and Coin, investigation had not yet uncovered 
machines sufficiently reliable or accurate to warrant a recommendation 
for their purchase by Reserve Banks. Also, it appeared that the Mint 
would be able to operate only 7 of the 14 AMF machines at its own instal-
lations, and the Mint had requested that the remaining machines be operated 
by Reserve Banks. This request had been approved by the Conference at its 
March meeting, and the machines were to be installed at four Reserve Banks. 
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury Wallace, in a letter dated 
March 12, 1968, had now proposed a schedule for separation of the coin 
that contemplated completion of the task by the end of June 1969. To 
accomplish that objective it would be necessary for the Reserve Banks to 
purchase some 50 small, less sophisticated separating machines at a cost 
of up to $300,000. Mr. Wallace also suggested that some of the costs of 
servicing and maintaining the AMF machines, both at Reserve Bank and 
Mint offices, be borne by the Federal Reserve. 
In a letter dated March 15, 1968, President Hickman raised several 
questions relating to the extent to which costs of the program should be 
absorbed by the Federal Reserve System. 

1 1 8 5 
3/27/68 
-4-
In sum, it appeared that the Presidents were inclined toward a 
more leisurely program than that urged by the Treasury. Thus the basic 
question was whether the Board would be disposed to favor the System's 
making expenditures along lines now proposed by the Treasury in the 
interest of an accelerated time schedule. 
In discussion, Board members suggested that the first issue to 
be decided was whether there was justification for attempting to shorten 
the time schedule to the extent urged by the Treasury. When that issue 
was decided, it would be easier to reach a decision on absorption of the 
costs involved. Some members suggested that the fundamental objective 
should be to complete the task in a way that would be most economical 
from the standpoint of the Government as a whole, but one member counseled 
that the System should be careful about undertaking expenditures simply 
because that would relieve the Treasury from seeking appropriated funds, 
at least without the knowledge of the proper Congressional committees. 
There was then agreement with a suggestion that one member of 
the Board be designated who, in company with Board staff, would discuss 
the problem further with Assistant Secretary Wallace and other Treasury 
representatives with a view to submitting a proposal to the Board for 
consideration. Governor Brimmer was designated as the member of the 
Board who would pursue the matter. 
Amendments to margin regulations. On March 22, 1968, available 
members of the Board had met with representatives of the New York 
Clearing 

11&6 
3/27/68 
-5-
House Association to discuss section 221.3(u) of Regulation U, Credit 
by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks, 
commonly known as the "agency" section. The Clearing House would have 
preferred that the section be eliminated. If it was to be retained, 
however, it appeared that some areas of agreement on amendment of the 
section existed, and the Board's staff was instructed to work with 
representatives of the Clearing House in drafting compromise language. 
A staff memorandum dated March 26 submitted such a revision of 
the section. However, a second memorandum of the same date advised that 
there was now a new submission by the Clearing House. The first memo-
randum summarized the extent to which the revision submitted with it 
appeared to meet the objections of the Clearing House and also described 
a principal area of disagreement that remained. 
The staff memorandum noted that five alternatives appeared to 
be open to the Board: 
(1) permit section 221.3(u) in the form adopted 
on February 1, 1968, to become effective on April 10; (2) eliminate the 
section from Regulation U; (3) limit the applicability of the section 
to such activities as were performed by a bank as an agent handling 
collateral behind "purpose" loans; (4) adopt the compromise version of 
the section, including language proposed by the Clearing House that 
would permit U.S. citizens living abroad to borrow from foreign banks 
against collateral consisting of registered stocks, and to have the 
collateral handled by a U.S. bank as agent, if the borrower filed a 

118? 
3/27/68 
-6-
statement that the purpose of the loan was not to purchase or carry 
registered stock; or (5) adopt the compromise version with the exclu-
sion of such language. The staff recommended the fifth alternative. 
The staff also recommended that the effective date of the 
section, as so amended, be further deferred until April 17 to permit 
more ample time for adjustment of correspondent banking relationships. 
Such deferment would also apply to the corresponding sections of 
Regulation G, Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers 
for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities, 
and Regulation T, Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members of National 
Securities Exchanges. 
In the second memorandum of March 26 the staff explained why it 
would not recommend adoption of the fresh draft of section 221.3(u) sub-
mitted by the Clearing House. 
At today's meeting members of the Board and staff reviewed for 
the benefit of those members who had not been present the principal 
points covered at the March 22 meeting with Clearing House Association 
representatives. During the discussion that followed it was noted that 
at the close of the March 22 meeting it had appeared that the Board's 
staff and the Clearing House representatives were moving toward common 
ground. Staff then explained, in response, why upon further reflection 
it did not feel that it could recommend adoption of language going as 
far as the March 22 discussion had indicated. In turn the Clearing 

1188 
3/27/68 
-7-
House had now presented its alternative draft, which the Board's staff 
did not consider acceptable. 
After further discussion of the so-called compromise version 
of the "agency" section, Governor Robertson proposed the introduction 
of a reporting system under which domestic agent banks would be required 
to furnish the Federal Reserve periodic transaction reports. It was his 
thought that if the reports showed that the volume of transactions was 
increasing substantially, the problem of closing loopholes could be 
considered further at that stage. Accordingly, he suggested that the 
staff prepare a revised draft of section 221.3(u) reflecting the so-
called compromise version, with the language originally proposed by the 
Clearing House, plus provision for a reporting arrangement of the kind 
he had outlined. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:15 p.m. with all members of the Board except Governor Sherrill present 
along with the following staff: Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Forrestal, 
Brill, Hexter, Solomon, and Keir, and Miss Wolcott, Miss Hart, and 
Mr. Shuter. 
Mr. Solomon reported a telephone call received during the lunch 
hour from an official of the New York Clearing House Association who 
advised that the president of one of the leading New York banks wished 
to make clear his deep concern about section 221.3(u), even the so-called 
compromise version, since in his view the foreign correspondent relationships 

u s ; ) 
3/27/68 
-8-
of U.S. banks would be jeopardized. Mr. Solomon said he had given 
assurance of the Board's awareness of the importance of the matter. 
Upon request, Mr. Solomon then reviewed the stages through which 
the various draft proposals had evolved, including the new modified ver-
sion (copies of which were distributed) reflecting the suggestion by 
Governor Robertson at this morning's session. 
There ensued a lengthy discussion toward the end of which comments 
by Board members reflected a preference for the modified version. Mem-
bers also favored deferring the effective date of the "agency" section 
one week to April 17 to allow time for necessary readjustments in agency 
relationships. This deferment would also apply to the corresponding sec-
tions of Regulations G and T. 
In addition, a view was expressed that the press release announc-
ing the Board's action should be as clear as possible in explaining the 
Board's position. 
Unanimous approval then was given to an amendment to section 221.3(u) 
of Regulation U, effective April 17, 1968, in the form of the modified ver-
sion distributed at this afternoon's session. Related amendments to 
sections 207.4(f) of Regulation G and section 220.4(f) of Regulation T 
were also approved unanimously. 
Copies of the amendments to the respective regulations, in Federal 
Register form, are attached under Item No. 3, and a copy of the press 
release issued with regard thereto is attached as Item No. 4. 

3/27/68 
-9-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: 
On March 27, 1968, action 
was taken on behalf of the Board under dele-
gated authority as reflected in the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached as 
indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Item No. 
Letter to Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, approving 
the establishment of a branch in Taylorsville. 
5 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
I f 
3/27/68 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
2 * 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 27, 1968. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
This will acknowledge your letter of March 13, 1968, 
advising that on February 29, 1968, First National City Bank 
(International) requested full payment for 75,000 authorized 
but unissued shares of its capital stock and that $7,500,000 
was paid by your bank for such shares. 
Although our letter of May 17, 1967, was not clear 
in this regard, prior consent of the Board of Governors should 
have been obtained pursuant to section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 618) before such payment was made. 
However, in the circumstances the Board interposes no objec-
tion to your bank's having thus purchased the remainder of 
First National City Bank (International)'s authorized capital 
stock of 100,000 shares of $100 par value. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

11?2 
Item No. 2 
T E L E G R A M 
3/27/68 
L E A S E D WIRE 
S E R V I C E 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S O F T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
March 27, 1968 
MERRITT - SAN FRANCISCO 
Board authorizes your Bank to proceed with the preparation of 
detailed plans and specifications for the proposed Los Angeles 
Branch building addition, as described in preliminary plans 
and specifications forwarded with your letter of July 7, 1967, 
with the understanding that the vaults will be constructed of 
18-inch concrete with Steelcrete reinforcing and 16-inch doors 
and that a review will be made of the curb-side delivery of coin. 
FORRESTAL 

1133 
Item No. 3 
3/27/68 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
/Reg. g7 
Part 207 - CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, 
BROKER^ OR DEALERS FOR PURPOSE OF PURCHASING 
OR CARRYING REGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES 
Lender Acting as Agent 
1. Effective immediately : 207.4(f) is revoked. 
2. Effective April 17, 1 % 8 , j 207.4(l>) is added as follows: 
j 207.4 Miscellaneous provisions. 
. 
* 
* * 
(f) Acting as agent. (1) No person shall act as agent of any 
lender, bank, or creditor subject to Parts 207, 220, or 221 of this Chapter 
(Regulations G, T, and U) 
in respect of any transaction which such person 
knows or should know is connected with an extension or maintenance of credit 
Secured directly or indirectly by any registered equity security unless a 
statement signed by such lender, bank, or creditor is filed with, and accepted 
^ good faith by such person, to the effect that such lender, bank, or creditor 
dOes not extend or maintain credit to or for customers in violation of such 
£arts. 
(2) For the purpose of this paragraph, activities of an "agent" 
delude, for example, but are not limited to receiving securities to be used 
collateral, determining whether the market value of collateral is adequate, 
requiring the deposit of additional collateral or the reduction of credit. 

- 2 -
is connected with 
(3) In determining whether a transaction iosx>cb®66c an extension of 
credit, whether such credit is secured directly or indirectly by any registered 
equity security, and whether such person can rely in good faith on the state-
ment described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, such person shall (i) be 
alert to the circumstances surrounding the transaction, and (ii) if he has 
information that would cause a prudent man not to accept such statement 
Without inquiry, must have investigated and be satisfied that the credit 
either is not subject to such Part or is extended and maintained in conformity 
with the provisions of such Part. 
* 
* 
* 
rt 
* 
3a. The purpose of this amendment is to make certain clarifying 
changes in the provision and to mitigate the administrative burden involved 
in handling a substantial volume of ministerial agency transactions. 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
Elating to notice and public participation and to deferred effective dates, 
were not followed in connection with this amendment. The effect of the 
^endment is to relax the requirements of 3 207.4(f) as published in the 
federal Register of February 8, 1968 (33 F.R. 2691). In the circumstances, 
the Board found that following such procedures would result in delay that 
^ u l d be contrary to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 27th day of March, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
SEAL 

1195 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
/Reg. T7 
PART 220 - CREDIT BY BROKERS, DEALERS, AND MEMBERS 
OF NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES 
Creditor Acting as Agent 
1. Effective immediately § 220.7(f) is revoked. 
2. Effective April 17, 1968, S 220.7(f) is added as follows: 
§ 220.7 Miscellaneous provisions. 
* 
* 
* 
(f) Acting as agent (1) No creditor shall act as agent of any 
P e*so n in respect of any transaction which the creditor knows or should know 
i s connected with an extension or maintenance of credit secured directly or 
^directly by any registered security unless a statement signed by such 
P e*son is filed with, and accepted in good faith by the creditor, to the 
e f*ect that such person does not extend or maintain credit to or for customers 
l n violation of Part 207, 220, or 221 of this Chapter (Regulations G, T, or U). 
(2) For the purpose of this paragraph, activities of an "agent" 
i nclude, for example, but are not limited to receiving securities to be used 
collateral, determining whether the market value of collateral is adequate, 
a n d requiring the deposit of additional collateral or the reduction of credit. 
is connected with 
(3) In determining whether a transaction i m t a c an extension of 
^ d i t , whether such credit is secured directly or indirectly by any registered 
^curity, and whether he can rely in good faith on the statement described in 
^ p a r a g r a p h (1) of this paragraph, the creditor shall (i) be alert to the 
c i*cumstances surrounding the transaction, and (ii) if he has information 
t t l at would cause a prudent man not to accept such statement without inquiry, 

1196 
- 3 -
®U8t have investigated and be satisfied that the credit either is not subject 
t o such Part or is extended and maintained in conformity with the provisions 
such Part. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
«5. 
3a. The purpose of this amendment is to make certain clarifying 
changes in the provision and to mitigate the administrative burden involved 
handling a substantial volume of ministerial agency transactions. 
b. The provision of 553 of Title 5, United States Code, relating 
t o notice and public participation and to deferred effective dates, were not 
followed in connection with this amendment. The effect of the amendment is to 
t elax the requirements of § 220.7(f) as published in the Federal Register of 
P ebruary 8, 1968 (33 F.R. 2695). In the circumstances, the Board found that 
f°Uowing such procedures would result in delay 
that would be contrary to 
public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 27th day of March, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1197 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
, /Reg. u7 
... PART 221 - CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING 
OR CARRYING REGISTERED STOCKS 
Bank Acting as Agent 
1. Effective immediately, > 221.3(u) is revoked. 
2. Effective April 17, 1968, i 221.3(u) is added as follows: 
J 221.3 
Miscellaneous provisions. 
* 
* 
* 
(u) Bank acting as agent. (1) No bank shall act as agent of any 
Psrson in respect of any transaction which the bank knows or should know is 
c°nnected with an extension or maintenance of credit secured directly or 
indirectly by any registered equity security unless a statement signed by 
8 uch person is filed with the bank, and accepted in good faith by a duly 
^thorized officer of the bank, to the effect that such person does not 
extend or maintain credit to or for customers in violation of Part 207, 220, 
221 of this Chapter (Regulation G, T, or U). 
(2) A bank subject to this Part (sometimes referred to herein as a 
"domestic bank"), may, without regard to subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, 
a°t as agent of a bank or other similar financial institution, a principal 
Portion of the business of which consists of receiving deposits, formed under 
the laws of a foreign State (sometimes referred to herein as a "foreign bank"), 
l f such foreign bank has filed with such domestic bank a statement signed by 
a duly authorized officer of the foreign bank, and accepted in good faith by 
a duly authorized officer of the domestic bank, to the effect that the foreign 

1198 
, , 
- 2 -
bank will not request the domestic bank to act as agent in respect of any 
transaction (i) which is connected with an extension of credit by it secured 
Erectly or indirectly by any registered equity security to any citizen or 
resident of the United States, or (ii) as to which the foreign bank knows or 
should know that any other person is extending credit in connection with such 
transaction to any citizen or resident of the United States secured directly 
°r indirectly by any registered equity security. 
(3) A domestic bank may also, without regard to subparagraphs 
U ) and (2) of this paragraph, act as agent of a foreign bank in respect of 
a n extension of credit by such foreign bank to a citizen of the United States 
Residing in the foreign State under wbose laws such foreign bank is formed, 
(i) such citizen has executed a statement in conformity with the require-
ments of Federal Reserve Form U-4 stating that the credit is not for the 
Purpose of purchasing or carrying registered equity securities and affirmatively 
-Ascribing the purpose of the credit, (ii) the foreign bank has forwarded 
8 U c h statement to the domestic bank, and (iii) the statement has been accepted 
a duly authorized officer of the domestic bank. A duly authorized officer 
such domestic bank may accept such statement if it is regular and complete 
, 
its face and he has no actual knowledge of facts or circumstances which 
w°uld cause him not to accept the statement without inquiry. Such domestic 
^ n k shall not later than the fifteenth day of each month, furnish the Federal 
Reserve Bank of the District in which the head office of the domestic bank is 
located with a list of the names of the persons who executed statements on 
federal Reserve Form U-4 received during the preceding calendar month and the 
d°Ua r amount of credit extended to each such person, as set forth in such „ 

1199 
- 3 -
3tatements, and shall retain such statements in its records, in a separate file 
readily available to bank examiners, for at least six years after the credit 
i s extinguished. 
(4) For the purposes of this paragraph, activities of an "agent" 
include, for example, but are not limited to receiving securities to be used 
a s collateral, determining whether the market value of collateral is adequate, 
a nd requiring the deposit of additional collateral or the reduction of credit. 
is connected with 
(5) In determining whether a transaction ixwxutancx an extension of 
C redit, whether such credit is secured directly or indirectly by any registered 
equity security, and whether he can rely in good faith on the statements 
^scribed in subparagraphs (1) and (2) "of this paragraph, the officer shall 
(i) 
be alert to the circumstances surrounding the transaction, and (ii) if he 
information that would cause a prudent man not to accept such statement 
Without 
inquiry, must have investigated and be satisfied that the credit 
Either is not subject to such Part or is extended and maintained in conformity 
the provisions of such Part. 
*
*
*
*
* 
3a. The purpose of this amendment is to make certain clarifying 
Ganges in the provision and to mitigate the administrative burden involved in 
i d l i n g a substantial volume of ministerial agency transactions, particularly 
transactions on behalf of foreign banks, and to permit U.S. citizens abroad*to 
b°rrow from foreign banks against collateral that includes registered equity 
P u r i t i e s , if the loan is not for the purpose of purchasing or carrying 
V''..":' • 
; 
. V , 
- 
„ 
.y
 
: 
8 e C u r i t i e g 
o f 
t h i s 
k i n d , without forfeiting the right to have such collateral 
> ' * 
5 : 9^ined in the custody of a U.S. bank. 

-n 
< .' ' 
..' ' 
1200 
-4-
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
relating to notice and public participation and to deferred effective dates, 
Were not followed in connection with this amendment. The effect of the 
» 3 
'"'... 
• 
:'.' 1 •'. 
amendment is to relax the requirements of 5 221.3(u) as published in the 
i • 
*• 
Federal Register of February 8, 1968 (33 F.R. 2702). In the circumstances, 
the Board found that following such procedures would result in delays that 
Would be contrary to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 
27th day of March, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
SEAL 
i 
v 
i l!p?v'v : 
Vr
1, 
'..''. 
f 'V' 
i'i' V^''
 ; " ' 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
I
:'''P" 

Item No. 4 
3/27/68 
For immediate release. 
March 29, 1968. 
The Board of Governors today announced that it has amended 
its stock market credit Regulations G , T, and U , to ease the restrictions 
on banks, brokers, and other lenders covered by the regulations which 
act as agents in handling transactions involving loans on securities. 
These provisions of the regulations (section 207.4(f) of Regulation G, 
section 220.4(f) of Regulation T , and section 221.3(u) of Regulation U) 
had been temporarily suspended by the Board on February 29, 1968. The 
new provisions will be effective on April 17, 1968. 
The amendments provide that the prohibitions of the "agency" 
sections only apply where the bank, broker, or other lender knows or 
should know that the services it performs as agent are connected with 
a loan secured in such a way that the agent would have had to observe 
the requirements of the regulation if it had itself made the loan. 
This change is designed to mitigate administrative burdens involved in 
handling a substantial volume of ministerial agency transactions. 
As to banks, two further changes are designed to make the 
regulation more workable within the framework of existing international 
banking relationships. The first permits domestic banks to handle 
transactions as agent on behalf of foreign banks in reliance on an 
assurance by the foreign bank that it will not ask its U. S. agent bank 
to handle transactions connected with securities loans to U. S. 

citizens. The second permits U. S. citizens living abroad to borrow 
from foreign banks against collateral consisting of registered stocks, 
and have the collateral handled by a U. S. bank, if the borrower files 
a statement corresponding to that which must be filed under similar 
circumstances by a borrower in the United States, showing that the 
purpose of the loan is not to purchase or carry registered stccks. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF 
R I C H M O N D 
R I C H M O N D 
13, 
V I R G I N I A 
Item No 
3/27/68 
Hsreh 27, 19*8. 
Board of Bisector*, 
Vachorla teak and Trait Ceupany, 
Vlnetoa-Sclca, Caxth Carolina 
27102. 
Oaatlttsat 
The Federal leearra Back of Ulehaoad, on behalf 
of and cedar authority delejeted by tha Board of O o v t n o r i 
of the Federal Beearvo Syetea, baa approrod tha application 
of Bechorla Beak and fruat Cespeay, Vinaten-ielea, north 
Carolina, to estebllsh a breach at Waat Main Arcana aad 
lotecd Street Bortbwest, taylorsrllle, Alexander County, 
forth Carolina. In reaching this daclaloa, aonalderetloa 
haa koea glrea to the bank's capitalisation and aeaetcaoat, 
tha coarealcncc end needa of the eeaaanlty, the cocspctltlvc 
situation la tha area aad the fatsre prospect® of the branch. 
Authority granted hereby expiree cne year from the 
dote of this letter. Yleaee edrlse ea when e definite data 
for opening haa been determined aad the exact title under 
which the breach will opevete. 
Yotara very truly, 
/S/ Aubrey N. Heflin 
Aubrey B . Beflln, 
First Vice Prealdcnt. 
