MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 24, 1972 

3379 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, November 24, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. Today's agenda called for consideration 
o f the application of Third National Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, 
acquire shares of the successor by merger to The First National Bank 
Lawrenceburg, Lawrenceburg, Tennessee. However, action was deferred 
Pending decision with respect to another case shortly to be brought 
^efore the Board that involved similar circumstances. 
The other items on the consent calendar were considered as part 
the agenda proper. 

3380 
U/24/72 
-2-
Fort Worth National Corporation. The Board unanimously approved 
the application of The Fort Worth National Corporation, Fort Worth, 
Texas, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to The American 
National Bank of Amarillo, Amarillo, Texas. After discussion during 
which agreement was reached upon changes in a draft that had been 
distributed, the Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting this 
decision in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
First International Bancshares. The Legal Division had submitted, 
with a memorandum of November 21, documentation to implement the Board's 
decisions on October 31, 1972, to approve the application of First 
International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas, to become a bank holding 
c°mpany and related applications. 
Discussion included suggestions for revision of the majority 
statement, and it was therefore understood that a revised draft would 
be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
United Missouri Bancshares. On August 22, 1972, the Board 
discussed the application of United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Wornall Bank, also of 
Kansas City. Governor Brimmer requested further information regarding 
ownership of banks in Missouri by the Kemper family, one branch of 
which was the major stockholder of United Missouri Bancshares. 
Pertinent 
•^formation gathered by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City was 

3381 
H/24/72 
-3-
furnished with a memorandum of November 17, 1972, from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation. The Division reiterated its recommen-
dation of approval. 
After discussion the application was approved unanimously, 
and the Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting that deci-
sion. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
First Commercial Banks. In a memorandum of November 6, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the 
aPplication of First Commercial Banks Inc., Albany, New York, to 
acquire shares of Schenectady Discount Corporation, Colonie, New York. 
The Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
also recommended denial. Schenectady Discount Corporation and its 
Subsidiaries were engaged in financing the purchase of mobile homes 
and in related insurance activities. 
After discussion the application was denied unanimously, and 
lssuance of an order reflecting this decision was authorized. A copy 
the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
l t e™ 
1 
11/24/72 
THE FORT WORTH NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Fort Worth National Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less direc-
tors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The American 
Clonal Bank of Amarillo, Amarillo, Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which 
is to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate 
he acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
Ccluis it ion of shares of the successor organization is treated herein as 
the n Proposed acquisition of the shares of Rank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
0 n s t o submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(bN 
* of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
°ne has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
°n ^ light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
i / 
Applicant controls four banks- located in the Fort Worth area 
vith fi 
a8gregate deposits of about $594 million, representing 2.0 per cent 
of t 
al deposits of commercial banks in the State. Applicant, the 
i/^gr^ 
l°cnt h ° f F° r t W o r t h j Riverside State Bank and Tarrant State Bank, all 
Hold,d i n Fort Worth, are deemed subsidiaries for purposes of the Bank 
W 
& Company Act by virtue of Applicant's fiduciary holdings in said 
8 and section 2(a)(5)(A) of the Act. 

3383 
-2-
^°urth largest bank holding company and eighth largest banking organizn-
ticd in Texas and the largest in the Fort Worth banking market; controls ap-
proximately 29.8 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the Fort 
Worth area. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect 
ka&k holding company acquisitions and formations approved by the Board 
trough October 31, 1972.) In addition, Applicant controls between 
and 24.9 per cent of the voting shares of two other banks located 
the Fort Worth market, holding aggregate deposits of $69.4 million, 
^Presenting approximately 3.3 per cent of commercial bank deposits in 
^e Fort Worth area. Applicant also owns 5.0 per cent of the shares of 
National Bank, Paducah, Texas. Upon consummation of the acquisition 
0f Bank ($63.2 million in deposits), Applicant's share of commercial bank 
dePosits in the State would increase by 0.2 percentage points and its 
t{mkir\g among banking organizations in the State would be unchanged, 
G°nsummation of the proposal herein would constitute Applicant's initial 
cy into the Amarillo banking market. 
Bank is located in the central business district of Amarillo 
and ^ the third largest of nine banks in the Amarillo banking market, 
C°ntr°lling about 14.3 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in 
market. Upon consummation of the present proposal, Applicant would 
anie the only bank holding company represented in Amarillo, 
Applicant's banking operations are about 350 miles southeast 
It appears that no meaningful competition exists between Bank 
Qji j 
at*y of Applicant's subsidiary banks. Further, it seems unlikely that 

-3 
3384 
^aningful competition would develop in the future between Bank and Appli-
'e subsidiary banks in light of the facts presented, notably, the 
distances separating these banks and the Texas statutes prohibiting 
branch banking. While the population per banking office ratio for 
the Amarillo market is higher than the ratio for the entire State, 
Population of the city of Amarillo decreased somewhat the past 
decade; three de novo banks which have opened in this market since 
have exhibited slow growth. Accordingly, de novo entry by 
Applicant does not appear very likely. Bank is not regarded as a 
likely prospect for the formation of a new bank holding company. 
It 
aPpears that acquisition of Bank would not have a significant 
Averse effect on the remaining banks in the relevant market nor 
c 
°reclose entry by other bank holding companies into that market, 
eight independent banks would remain as potential members of 
°ther bank holding companies. Furthermore, entry by Applicant may 
a procompetitive effect by enabling Bank to compete more 
Effectively with the two larger banks in the Amarillo market which 
C°ntr°l approximately 69 per cent of market deposits. On the basis 
of ,, 
c«e record before it, the Board concludes that consummation of 
th 
e proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competi-
tt 
n in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
^Pplicant and its subsidiaries appear satisfactory. As a result of the 
^ U a t i o n of Applicant with Bank and Applicant's commitment to make a 

3385 
-4-
si8nificant contribution of additional capital to Bank, Bank's financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects are regarded as satisfactory. 
Th 
e expected strengthening of Bank's capital position lends weight to 
approval of the application. 
Although the major banking needs of the relevant area appear 
adequately served at the present time, Applicant proposes to assist Bank 
in Providing increased lending capacity and improvement in the services 
offered by Bank. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served appear consistent with approval of the appli-
ation. it is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition is in 
the 
e Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
In making its determination herein the Board has relied upon a 
inding that combining this Bank in the Amarillo area with Applicant's 
*lsting banking and nonbanking subsidiaries will not have an adverse 
®f f 
e c t upon the public interest at the present time. However, Applicant's 
8 and nonbanking activities remain subject to Board review and the 
3rd 
retains the authority to require Applicant to modify or terminate 
n°nbanking activities or holdings if the Board at any time determines 
the combination of Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities is 
c o h a v e adverse effects on the public interest. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the
 te 
a S o n s summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
<*) bGfo 
t h e thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
b 
Bo 
its 
that 

-5-
3388 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective November 24, 1972, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
|^Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Brimmer, 
j^eehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Daane. 

3387 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
11/24/72 
UNITED MISSOURI BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a 
kank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval under 8 3(a)(3) of the Act 
^ U.s.c. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
Shates of Wornall Bank, Kansas City, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in accordance 
5 3(b) 
of the Act, and the time for filing comments and views has 
P*red. The Board has considered the application and all comments 
eceived in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 
U,S'C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fourth largest bank holding company and the 
Urth largest banking organization in Missouri on the basis of deposits, 
t 
er* subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $576 million, repre-
AI18 4.54 
per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
^ hanking data are as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding 
P a n y formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through October 31, 
l972 ) A Appiicant»s lead bank, City National Bank and Trust Company ("City 
^ti 
0t*al") ($414 million deposits), is located in downtown Kansas City 
H 
VifV, control of 11.7 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
^ ^ in 
u the Kansas City Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, is the 
largest bank operating in the Kansas City banking market. 

3388 
-2-
Bank ($20.5 million deposits), located in Kansas City 
aPproximately ten miles south of Applicant's lead bank, is one of 
the 
e smaller banks operating in the Kansas City market, and holds 
about .5 p e r c e n t o f t o t a l deposits in the market. While Applicant's 
lead b a n k and another of its subsidiary banks" operate in the Kansas 
Citv 
y market, it does not appear that consummation of the proposal would 
minate any meaningful existing or potential competition. Bank was 
t8atlized ^ 1955 by individuals associated with City National and has 
a close working relationship with City National and Applicant. 
t h e present time, stockholders of Applicant own or control more than 
80 p e r cent of Bank's stock. On the basis of the facts of record, notably 
the i 
arge number of banks available in the Kansas City market, the common 
^ e r s h iP a n d long standing relationship that has existed between Bank 
and Anni-i 
Pplicant's lead bank, and the fact that the close association would 
y continue regardless of the Board's action on the present application, 
the 
ard concludes that consummation of the proposal would not eliminate 
y siRnificant existing competition nor foreclose significant potential 
tit Ion. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
ces and future prospects of Applicant and its present subsidiaries 
teSarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval of the appli-
• The prospects of Bank are regarded as generally satisfactory, 
^ 
— -
fC(hUr U n e 2, 1972, the Board approved the application of Applicant to 
Manufacturers and Mechanics Bank of Kansas City, Kansas City, 
r i (1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 655). 

3383 
-3-
An A 
should be enhanced as a result of consummation of the proposal, 
addition, as a subsidiary of Applicant, Bank should be able to offer 
and expanded services. Considerations relating to convenience and 
needs a r e consistent with approval of the application. It is the 
Boavj t 
3 judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
nc* that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
is Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
^t h V the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
*Uth°rity. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 24, 1972 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Brimmer, 
lliteh ' and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
and Daane. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 
11/24/72 
FIRST COMMERCIAL BANKS INC. 
Order Denying Acquisition of Schenectady Discount Corporation 
First Commercial Banks Inc., Albany, New York, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t, has applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) 
o f the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to 
acquire 95 per cent or more of the voting shares of Schenectady 
Discount Corporation, Colonie, New York, and thereby all of the 
shares of Markwood Agency, Inc., Albany, New York; Colonie 
Adjustment Service, Inc., Albany, New York; Desert Insurance 
Agency, Apache Junction, Arizona; and Sunland Adjustment Service 
C°rP., Apache Junction, Arizona, all of which are wholly-owned 
Subsidiaries of Schenectady Discount Corporation ("Schenectady"). 
proposed subsidiary and its subsidiaries engage in the 
activities of purchasing, from mobile home dealers and others, 
rGtaii instalment sales contracts deriving from the sale of 
m°bile homes; making direct loans to mobile home dealers to 
fin 
aance inventory; the collection of delinquent loans held 
^ Schenectady Discount Corporation; the sale of group credit 
Uf 
insurance to its debtors; the sale of casualty insurance 
°a the property serving as collateral for the above-described 

2 
3391 
extensions of credit;!/ and the sale of personal effects insurance 
and rental value insurance to individual borrowers in conjunction 
vith the casualty insurance. Such activities have been determined 
ky the Board to be closely related to banking or managing or 
C0*troUing banks (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), (3), and (9) (ii) (a)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
j 
n tested persons to submit comments and views on the public 
Merest factors, has been duly published (37 Federal Register 
^200), xhe time for filing comments and views has expired, 
none has been timely received. 
Applicant, through its three subsidiary banks, con-
tr°ls approxmiately $1.1 billion of deposits, (All data are 
°f December 31, 1971.) Its lead bank, National Commercial 
Ba^k and T r u s t company, Albany, New York ("Bank"), is the largest 
b a n k in Albany County, its total deposits of $745 million represent-
in8 approximately 42 per cent of deposits in commercial banks in 
hat* county. Bank is also the largest bank in New York's Fourth 
a aHng District controlling approximately 27 per cent of the 
istrict'8 deposits. Schenectady, with total assets of approxi-
^eiy $ 2 2 
million, is a sales finance company specializing in 
e Purchase of instalment contracts originated by mobile home 
^uT" 
-— 
_ 
t 
insurance is sold both to direct borrowers from Schenectady 
In th° deb*ors on the contracts it purchases from mobile home dealers 
c°ntiat S c h e n e c t a d y purchases retail instalment sales contracts on a 
betv
 nuiug basis from the same mobile home dealers, and the interval 
Putcuen t h e creation of the security interests and their subsequent 
it\ th986 1 8 m i n l m a l > t h e contracts being delivered by hand or placed 
e mail to Schenectady immediately after the signatures have 
ctefl.e3cecuted, the Board regards such purchases as extensions of 
i* U n d e r 1 2 C F R 225.4(a)(9)(ii)(a) as provided in 12 CFR 
%128(c)(4). 

-3-
3392 
balers. Schenectady maintains its head office in Colonie, 
New York, located approximately two miles north of Albany 
operates a branch office in Apache Junction, Arizona. 
^Proximately 10 per cent of Schenectady's business is trans-
acted at its branch office. 
The relevant product market in which the Board analyzes 
competitive aspects of the proposed transaction is mobile 
home sales finance, that is, the purchase of instalment sales 
contracts from mobile home dealers accompanied by the provision 
of floor plan loans to finance the inventory of mobile home dealers. 
sirice the high cost of floor plan financing is not usually com-
pensable by interest charges, lenders refrain from providing 
fl°or plan credit to a dealer, unless the dealer sells portions 
o f its retail paper to the lender. Due to the existence of a 
8econdary market for mobile home paper and the high risk deriving 
fr°m the considerable turnover among mobile home manufacturers 
and dealers, a mobile home sales financo company requires specialized 
Pe*sonnel. It is basically this need, as well as the larger amounts 
longer maturities of individual mobile home instalment sales 
^tracts, that distinguishes mobile home sales finance from other 
types of consumer inetalment sales finance. 
Lenders engaged in mobile home Bales finance generally 
deal directly with mobile home dealers. Since the nature of the 
tisks s u c h lenders assume requires frequent visits to the premises 

3393 
a r r e n Counties. Schenectady derives approximately 45 per cent 
-4-
their dealer-customers for inspection of collateral, as well 
as requiring a knowledge of local credit conditions and frequent 
Sales and inventory adjustments, the relevant geographic markets 
are local or regional in scope, approximating areas within fifty 
to seventy-five miles surrounding major mobile home trading 
centers. 
Schenectady competes principally in the Albany regional market, 
v,hich is centered around the tri-city area of Schenectady, Albany, 
Tr°y and is approximated by Columbia, Greene, Schoharie, Albany, 
Re 
nsselaer, Montgomery, Schenectady, Saratoga, Washington, and 
rren 
of ^ 
iCs total business from the Albany regional market. Bank 
Q I 
engages in mobile home sales finance in the Albany regional 
arket. That market appears to be the relevant geographical 
a t e a in which the competitive effects of the proposed transaction are to 
be • 
Judged. There is considerable overlap between the service 
a s Of both institutions, approximately one-third of the retail 
nstalment sales contracts purchased by Schenectady from dealers 
in 
Albany regional market deriving from Bankfs service area. 
Co 
tersely, approximately GO per cent of the mobile home paper 
by Bank has been purchased from dealers located in Schenectady's 
ice areas. Schenectady appears to be the second largest supplier 
(and 
cue largest nonbanlc source) of the approximately eighteen 
lers of mobile home financing in the Albany regional market, 
lt\ j. 
*ms of dollar amount of mobile home purchase contracts 

3394 
-5-
^erived from the market (approximately $12 million). Schenectady's 
aPProximated market share is substantially greater than that of each 
it:s lesser competitors. Bank appears to be the fifth largest 
SuPPlier, based on market share, of mobile home financing in the Albany 
te§ional market. Consummation of the proposed transaction would have 
significant adverse effect on existing competition in the field of 
°Hle home sales finance in the Albany regional market. Since 
enectady and Applicant's banking subsidiaries also compete to a lesser 
in mobile home sales finance markets in the Buffalo, Syracuse, 
°u8hkeepsie, and Plattsburgh regions of New York State, consummation 
* the proposed transaction would also have adverse effects upon existing 
^Petition 
in those markets. 
Applicant's three subsidiary banks are actively engaged 
n Mobile home sales finance and appear to possess both the 
pe°iali^e(j skins and contacts necessary to compete in that 
^i^ess. In view of Bank's established market position, and 
Pp^icant's financial resources and managerial expertise, the 
believes that, even absent approval of this application, 
Ppiicant is likely to expand its mobile home sales finance 
vities. Consummation of the proposed transaction would, 
th. 
etefore, adversely affect the further development of com-
P6Um 
tJ-°n in the mobile home sales finance business in the Albany 
^ional market and other regional markets in the State. 

•6-
Applicant has indicated, as a public benefit to be 
derived from its affiliation with Schenectady, that it would 
*aject additional capital into Schenectady and thereby enhance 
future loan expansion by Schenectady, The increased supply 
of such lendable funds might eventually result in lower borrowing 
c°sts to purchasers of mobile homes. However, the same public 
benefit could be achieved by the investment by Applicant of 
^Pital funds into its own mobile home sales finance operations. 
Th 
a e Identical public benefit being achievable without the anti-
C°mPetitive effects of the instant proposal, the Board cannot 
c°nclude that the public benefit to be derived from consummation 
the proposed transaction outweighs the possible adverse effects 
0f the proposal. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations 
Elected in the record, the Board has concluded that the 
public interest factors the Board is required to consider under 
Section 4(c)(8) do not outweigh the possible adverse effects of 
th 
e Proposed affiliation. Accordingly, the application is hereby 
detUed. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective November 24, 1972 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
ts^AL] 
Sh V°ting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Brimmer, 
{^ehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
tchell and Daane. 
