MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 31, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
reduction at Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. Louis 

22S 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, January 31, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon^ Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia and Miss Key, Technical 
• •••<• Assistants, Office of the Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented, 
including comments on the recently published Federal budget. 
Copies 
of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been placed 
in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed matters of interest to the Board 
presently being considered by the Congress. 
All members of the staff then withdrew from the room except 
Messrs. Holland, Smith, Bernard, Broida, Partee, Molony, Bryant, Axilrod, 
and Hersey, and Mrs. Semia. 
17 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

230 
1/31/72 
-2-
Discount rates. On January 18, 1972, the Board had discussed 
proposed reductions of 1/4 and 1/2 percentage point in the discount 
rates of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and St. Louis, 
respectively. There had been a majority view in favor of informing 
the two Banks that the Board was not inclined to approve a lower rate 
at that time. On January 20 the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia had voted to reestablish the lending rates in the Bank's 
existing schedule, while on January 27 the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis had renewed their proposal for a lower rate 
of 4 per cent, rather than the present 4-1/2 per cent, on advances and 
discounts under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, together 
with correspondingly lower rates under other sections of the Act. 
In the discussion at today's meeting there developed a consensus 
against lowering the discount rate at this time and in favor of taking 
action to deny the proposed reduction rather than to hold the matter 
over for further consideration at a later date. 
It was felt that the 
evidence was not sufficiently conclusive to move ahead with a reduction, 
particularly one involving a 1/2 percentage point cut. It was suggested 
that a better case could be made in favor of a 1/4 point reduction, but 
various Board members indicated they would not be prepared to approve 
the change during the course of the current Treasury refunding. 
However, 
a view was expressed in favor of taking prompt action on discount rate 
proposals. 
It was also noted that a delay would increase the risk of a 

1/31/72 
-3-
leak of information to the market, a development which could have 
particularly unfortunate consequences during a Treasury refunding. 
Accordingly, the Board voted unanimously to disapprove the 
action taken by the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 
It was understood that appropriate advice of the Board's action would 
be transmitted to the St. Louis Bank and that a coded wire would be 
sent to all Federal Reserve Bank Presidents informing them of the 
action. 
The following then entered the room: 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board authorized the issuance of an order 
reflecting approval on January 20, 1972, of the application of First 
Chicago Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire shares of I. J . 
Markin & Co., also of Chicago. A copy of the order is attached under 
Item No. 1, along with a copy of the dissenting statement of Governors 
Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer. 

232 
1/31/72 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Franklin National 
Bank, Mineola, New York, regarding a misunderstanding reflected in the 
Board's approval on December 10, 1971, of the establishment of a branch 
in London, England, and interposing no objection to the establishment 
of that branch. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Payments mechanism. 
With a memorandum dated January 24, 1972, 
Governor Mitchell submitted a statement by the System Steering Committee 
on Improving the Payments Mechanism and guidelines for the use of the 
Reserve Banks in establishing a more efficient system for gathering, 
processing, and settling checks. The guidelines had been developed 
pursuant to the Board's policy statement on improving the payments 
mechanism issued on June 17, 1971, in cooperation with the Conference 
of First Vice Presidents. 
It was proposed to issue the Steering Com-
mittee's statement and the guidelines promptly. A draft press release 
was attached to the memorandum. 
The Board unanimously approved release of the guidelines and 
statement. 
Copies of the press release and documents are attached under 
Item No. 3. 
Authority of the Board in holding company cases. 
Governor Maisel 
had raised several questions about the scope of the Board's authority 
under the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Responses prepared by the Legal 
Division, referring to specific cases, were distributed with a memo-
randum dated January 26, 1972. 

233 
1/31/72 
-5-
During discussion it was suggested that although the questions 
Governor Maisel had raised were considered by members of the Board in 
making decisions, it would not be desirable to make a policy decision 
concerning them at this time. 
It was therefore agreed that the issues 
would be considered when the cases in which they arose were discussed 
by the Board. 
U.S. Bancorp. 
In a memorandum dated January 20, 1972, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the appli-
cation of U.S. Bancorp, Portland, Oregon, to acquire shares of Securities-
Intermountain, Inc., Portland, Oregon. The Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco and the Banking Markets Section concurred in the recommendation. 
• j i j •• 
1 >' 
The Board unanimously denied the application and authorized 
: . •* 
I ' i - " 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Marine Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum dated January 20, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the 
applica tion of Marine Bancorporation, Seattle, Washington, for permis-
sion to retain the total outstanding shares of Coast Mortgage Company, 
Seattle, Washington. 
The Banking Markets Section also recommended denial. 
After discussion, the Board deferred action on the application 
and requested that the staff provide additional information. 
United Jersey Banks. 
In a memorandum dated January 24, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 

1/31/72 
-6-
application of United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to The City National Bank of Mill-
ville, Millville, New Jersey. The Division suggested that approval be 
conditioned upon a commitment by the applicant that within three years 
after acquisition, City National would be merged into the applicant's 
existing subsidiary bank, Cumberland National Bank of Bridgeton, Bridge-
ton, New Jersey, so as to remove home office protection from Millville, 
in the absence of a change in New Jersey law that would effect the same 
result. 
The Board approved the application, Governor Robertson dissenting, 
with one year to be allowed for satisfying the condition with respect to 
merger of City National and Cumberland National. 
It was understood that 
an order reflecting the decision would be prepared for the Board's con-
sideration, and that a statement regarding Governor Robertson's dissent 
also would be prepared. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Burke then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Officer salaries. The procedure used in this official salary 
review to reflect the Board members' evaluation of each official staff 
member's performance was considered to be a useful practice, one that 
should be continued and refined. 

235 
1/31/72 
-7-
The salary rates, title changes, and official staff appointments, 
as recommended, were then approved. The actions taken are reflected in 
the listing attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

236 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST CHICAGO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of I. J. Markin & Co. 
First Chicago Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
has applied for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of the Act 
and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire all of the 
voting shares of I. J. Markin & Co. ("Markin"), Chicago, Illinois. 
Notice of the application affording opportunity for interested persons 
to submit comments and views was duly published. The time for filing 
comments and views has expired and all received have been considered, 
Including those presented orally and in writing in connection with 
a Board hearing on November 8, 1971, pertaining to mortgage banking 
in general, and this application in particular. 
Applicant controls the First National Bank of Chicago ("Bank"), 
the second largest bank in the Chicago SMSA, and twenty-one domestic 
and foreign nonbanking subsidiaries. 
Bank's deposits of $4.6 billion-^ 
represent 18 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
Chicago SMSA. Bank, which does not service mortgages originated by 
others, has outstanding $249 million of mortgages (primarily residential), 
which represent only 1.7 per cent of approximately $14.3 billion of 
mortgage loans outstanding in the Chicago SMSA. 
y 
Data as of December 1970. 
Item No. 1 
1/31/72 

237 
- 2 -
2/ 
Markin has a mortgage loan portfolio of $97.5 million"" 
(which represents 0.7 per cent of mortgage loans outstanding in 
the Chicago SMSA) and originated $8.3 million in loans during 1970. 
Applicant and Markin hold a combined share of only 2.4 per cent 
of the outstanding mortgage loans in this market. 
Based on the 
volume of mortgages serviced, Markin is the ninth largest mortgage 
company headquartered in Chicago, and the 187th largest in the nation. 
Markin specializes in the origination of mortgage loans on new income 
producing properties for sale to institutional investors, whereas 
Applicant specializes in residential loans (for its own account). 
The proposed acquisition would not result in any elimination 
of existing competition between Bank and Markin in the markets for 
either construction loans, permanent mortgages on one-four family homes, 
or in the servicing of mortgages for the public. The only market 
In which the two institutions are in direct competition at the present 
time is the originati on of mortgage loans on new income producing 
Properties. However, there is no significant existing competition 
between the two in this product market. 
Bank's capability for de novo entry into those mortgage 
banking markets in which it is not presently competing is limited 
only by its ability to develop or obtain the experienced personnel 
necessary to operate a d£ novo concern. However, in this case, 
V 
Data as of October 31, 1970. 

we find little differentiation to be made between a d£ novo entry, 
and the acquisition of a firm as small as Markin. As the ninth 
largest mortgage company headquartered in Chicago, Markin services 
less than five per cent of all mortgages serviced by the top 
10 mortgage companies headquartered in Chicago. There are numerous 
other mortgage companies and other financial institutions servicing 
mortgages in the Chicago SMSA as well. Thus, the market is suf-
ficiently unconcentrated to allow a small acquisition by Applicant 
without a substantial lessening of potential competition. 
We believe that Applicant's acquisition of Markin will not 
only add to the latter*s operating capabilities but will strengthen 
its competitive role in the markets where it presently operates and 
those into which it may expand. Applicant's purchase of Markin 
could expand the availability of housing finance in the Chicago area 
(and Applicant has assured the Board that it will make available 
to Markin additional funds for low and moderate income housing projects). 
Additionally, because of the number of remaining credit sources, there 
is no significant possibility that the acquisition would have adverse 
effects on credit availability to independent mortgage companies. 
On 
balance, the Board concludes that these public benefits outweigh any 
possible adverse effect on competition. 

• 
239 
-4-
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the application is approved. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— 
January 31, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
3/ Voting for this action; 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, and Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, and Brimmer. 

240 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, MAISEL, AND BRIMMER 
Applicant's subsidiary, First National Bank of Chicago 
($4.6 billion deposits), is the second largest bank in Chicago and 
has long been active in the single family home mortgage market. 
Its 
present mortgage loan portfolio of $249 million is comprised almost 
entirely of residential loans made by it. 
In addition, the bank has 
served as a lender to mortgage companies located both within the 
Chicago SMSA and outside the area. 
In Applicant's own words, the 
bank has acquired a reputation over the last 25 years as "a major bank 
for mortgage bankers throughout the nation", and has become "thoroughly 
familiar with the nature of the mortgage banking b u s i n e s s . " ^ 
I. J. Markin & Co. ("Markin"), specializes in the origination 
of loans on new income producing properties ($8.3 million in 1970). 
Unlike many Chicago mortgage companies, it does not make permanent 
mortgages on one-four family residences; nor does it engage to any 
significant extent in construction lending. For example, Markin made 
no construction loans at all in the Chicago SMSA during 1970. 
As 
of October 1970, it serviced $97 million of loans. Thus, on the basis 
of mortgages serviced, Markin is the 9th largest mortgage company 
in Chicago and the 187th largest in the nation. 
It is clear from the record that the purchase of Markin 
by Applicant would diminish existing competition. Their offices 
1/ See Statement of Richard L. Thomas, Senior Vice President and 
General Manager, First Chicago Corporation, Board hearings on 
mortgage banking, November 8, 1971, pp. 59, 63. 

-2-
are less than three blocks apart. Both are large-scale lenders 
on mortgages In the Chicago area. Moreover, consolidation of the 
two financial institutions would add a significant volume to the 
existing loan portfolio of Applicant as well as increase the assets 
of one of the largest financial organizations already in the Chicago 
market. Additionally, through a subsidiary (Real Estate Research 
Corporation) Applicant is one of the country's largest active 
consultants in the real estate field. The subsidiary is active 
in Chicago, and it would appear probable that it sells its services 
to Markin as well as to its competitors - and to customers of both. 
Applicant's acquisition of a substantial mortgage company thus offers 
the possibility of substantial conflicts of interest. 
Moreover, there are adverse effects on potential competition. 
2/ 
Since the barriers to entry into mortgage banking are relatively low,"" 
it would appear that Applicant's past experience should facilitate 
easy entry into those lines of mortgage banking (i.e., interim 
construction lending and servicing of permanent mortgages originated 
2/ According to the testimony of the holding company, the supply 
of skilled mortgage men in the Chicago area is limited. 
It is 
cheaper for a corporation wishing to expand its business to pur-
chase these services through acquiring an existing firm rather 
than through attempting to hire individuals, train them, or to 
acquire a firm not now active in its own market. 
If we assume 
this information to be accurate, the purchase of Markin by First 
Chicago would forestall or make it more difficult for a non-
Chicago based bank holding company to compete in the Chicago 
market, one of the largest in the United States. 

242 
-4-
by others) in which it has not heretofore engaged. 
In fact, on several 
occasions, Applicant has announced its intention to enter the construc-
tion lending business. 
It claims, however, that lack of personnel 
experienced in this specialized business has prevented it from doing 
• n 
so. On the other hand, Applicant admits that "a bank with our size 
and muscle could conceivably hire some very talented people from 
3/ 
independent mortgage bankers." 
It is thus apparent that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would foreclose potential competition. Applicant, owning 
the second largest bank in the Chicago SMSA, clearly has the resources 
and expertise to expand de novo into those mortgage banking lines in 
which it is not presently engaged. And it is only logical to expect 
that such expansion would occur in its own - and Markin's - present 
geographical market. As an established mortgage company, Markin 
is likewise capable of expanding its own mortgage banking activities 
in the Chicago area. Each institution is a potential competitor 
to the other in both the regional and national mortgage banking markets. 
Thus, consummation of the proposed acquisition would eliminate potential 
competition in two ways, since each would be eliminated as a potential 
competitor in the other's specialized mortgage activity. 
Given this record, and the foregoing anticompetitive effects, 
under the provisions of the Act, the Board would have to find a 
significant number of positive factors benefiting the public in order 

-4-
243 
to outweigh these large negative forces. 
Since it is obvious that Applicant 
c
ould enter the mortgage banking business either de novo or through purchase 
a company not now competing with it directly, extremely strong public 
interest advantages must be demonstrated before such an acquisition would 
be in accordance with the statute and the clear legislative intent. 
We 
fully concur with the analysis of this question by the Department of Justice 
its memorandum on mortgage banking filed with the Board on December 3, 
1971: 
"The basic balancing test of Section 4(c)(8) is 
concerned with more than clear adverse competitive 
effects which might amount to a violation of the anti-
trust laws. While providing increased flexibility 
for bank holding company expansion into nonbanking 
fields, Congress was concerned that the substantial 
economic power enjoyed by banks might adversely affect 
the public interest when released in these areas. 
Accordingly, it imposed regulatory restraints, above 
and beyond existing antitrust laws, on the limited 
intermingling of banking and commerce which it was 
permitting. These restraints are embodied in the 
required showing of positive public benefits; in 
this sense, Section 4(c)(8) imposes a generally 
stricter standard than traditional antitrust laws. 
It seems clear that bank holding companies bear the 
burden of demonstrating that their proposed non-
banking activity will be in the public interest." 
To meet the burden of establishing that benefits to the public 
°
u
tweigh the adverse effects of the proposed acquisition, as imposed by 
1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, Applicant has claimed 
consummation of the proposal would produce the following benefits: 
(l) Markin would become a more aggressive mortgage banker, (2) with more 
^
u
nda, it could lower tlie coot of financing to industrial and commercial 

244 
-4-
borrowers; (3) Applicant would become a more vigorous competitor to other 
holding companies. However, the argument proves too much. The advantages 
claimed likely could result from the acquisition by a corporation the size 
of Applicant of a mortgage banking firm of any size. There would certainly 
be an equal - and probably greater - stimulus to competition through de novo 
entry by Applicant as compared to a purchase. Thus, the advantages cited 
a r e
 negative rather than positive factors, for they only serve to illumi-
nate the manner in which Applicant could better enhance competition 
through internal expansion instead of through acquisition. 
An additional public benefit which Applicant claims would result 
from the instant proposal is that Markin would become more active in 
the housing field. To date, Markin has exhibited very little interest 
in national housing policy. 
It has made few, if any, loans on houses 
or in support of any type of government housing program. 
In contrast, 
two subsidiaries of Applicant - First National Bank of Chicago and Real 
Estate Research Corporation - have been extremely active in the housing 
field. Since Applicant already has in its corporate structure significant 
skills in housing finance presently being used to advance national housing 
policy, it is difficult to give much weight to a claim of public benefit 
through the acquisition of Markin - a corporation whose major skills 
are in the commercial and industrial spheres of mortgage lending and 
which has avoided participation in the furtherance of national housing 
Policy. 

-2-
245 
On the record, First Chicago has failed to show any positive 
benefits to the public through this acquisition. 
It has shown that 
numerous negative factors exist of the type that the Federal Reserve 
has been specifically required to consider when bank holding companies 
wish to acquire outside firms rather than expand their existing activities. 
/ 
The balance appears clear. We would deny the application. 
January 3 1 , 1972 

19 
B O A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
1/31/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRRESPDNDENCE 
TO THE! • CJ A fV D 
January 31, 1972 
M r . Harold V . Gleason 
Chairman of the Board 
Franklin National Bank 
410 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 
10017 
Dear M r . Gleason: 
This is to acknowledge your letter of January 4, 1972, con-
cerning the Board's letter dated December 10, 1971, granting Franklin 
National Bank its permission to establish a branch in London, England; 
particularly the reference to an understanding that the bank's parent 
holding company had recently contributed $30,000,000 to the bank's sur-
plus account. That understanding was, as you note, based upon your 
specific mention of surplus in your letter to the Board dated June 7, 
1971, and the absence of any mention, of a change in the form of the 
parent holding company's capital contribution in your letter to 
Chairman Burns dated December 2, 1971, which specifically referred to 
the earlier letter. The Board now understands that the addition to 
the bank's capital by its parent holding company was in the form of 
ei ght-year notes. 
The Board has noted that full disclosure of the form in 
which the funds would be provided to the bank was made by the parent 
holding company in the prospectus dated November 16, 1971, on the issue 
of $35,000,000 of notes by that company, and is satisfied that there 
was no intention to mislead in the letters resulting in the misunder-
standing . 
In general, the Board believes that surplus is preferable to 
debt capital, and it took this into consideration in granting its permis-
sion for the London branch. No objection will be raised to the estab-
lishment of the branch because of the differing nature of the recent ad-
dition to the bank's capital from that understood by the Board when the 
application for the branch was considered. 
The Board feels, however, that 
it should reemphasize its continuing special interest, expressed in its 
previous letter, in the operation of the branch and the progress made by 
the bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 3 
1/31/72 
For use in morning papers, 
February 2, 1972 
Thursday, February 3, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced approval of guidelines to be used by the System throughout 
the nation in establishing regional centers for overnight processing 
and settlement of checks. 
It is expected that the new check clearing system will result 
in the majority of the 62 million checks written daily by Americans 
being cleared and paid by the opening of business the day following 
deposit of a check. 
The guidelines were issued in furtherance of a policy state-
ment l>y the Board announced last June 17, calling--as a matter of 
urgency--for modernization of the nation's check payments system. 
The guidelines give basic directions to the Reserve Banks 
for the establishment, and operation, of Regional Check Processing 
Centers (RCPCs) in "communities whose trade, business and financial 
activities are substantially related" and where check volume warrants 
upgrading of check handling facilities. 
M o & t of the new clearing centers will be located at existing 
Federal Reserve offices: 
the 12. Federal Reserve Banks, their 24 
^ranches and one facility. 
let operating as regional check clearing facilities, in addition 
to their other functions, these Federal Reserve offices in 3 7 of the 
Nation's financial centers will expand the overnight check settlement 
arrangements they have had for some years with banks in the reserve cities 

. 
248 
Kow Federal Reserve regional clearing centers will only be 
opened, in areas not reached by the centerc in existing Federal Reserve 
offices, where check volume and the absence of alternative facilities 
make additional Federal Reserve service essential. 
The new system will make maximum use, consistent with improved 
service to the public, of check processing centers operated by commercial 
banks. 
In such commercial bank processing centers, checks from a number 
of correspondent banks are sorted and otherwise made ready for clearance, 
• T h e new system is to become operative, region by region, as 
soon as practicable. 
Clearing regions may cross State or Federal Reserve 
District boundaries. 
For individuals and businesses making and receiving payments 
by check, the new system will mean earlier receipt of funds due to 
them, end earlier p a y m e n t of funds they are transferring to others. 
For example, most payroll checks--typically due to be paid by a local 
bank to a depositor in another nearby bank--will be cleared, and 
employees will have use of their pay, within a day after they deposit 
their paychecks. 
Similarly, a check written to pay a bill, or make a 
purchase, will be. debited within a day after the check is deposited 
In a participating area bank. 
In all cases, the total time between 
the writing and collection of a check circulating within a clearing 
area will vary according to how long the check is held by the recipient 
before being deposited. 

In its June 1971 policy statement dealing generally wita 
modernization of the nation's system for making financial payments, 
t:ne Board said that a speedier, more efficient check Handling and 
clearance system is urgent because the nuge number of checks being 
put in use--some 23 billion checks, transferring about $13 trillion 
dollars yearly-~i3 expected to double by the end of this decade. 
For 
the came reasons, tne Beard said the improved check payments system it 
called for should be regarded as a transitional step toward replacing 
the use of caecks with electronic transfer of funds. 
Consequently, the guidelines released today specified that, 
generally, regional clearing centers should be provided witn automated 
clearing and telecommunications capabilities to serve as the basis 
for transition to widespread checkless--electronic-~fund transfers. 
The guidelines approved by the Board were prepared by the 
Federal Reserve System Steering Committee on the Payments Mechanism, 
headed by Reserve Board Governor George W. Mitchell, in collaboration 
with the Conference of First Vice Presidents of the Reserve Banks. 
The Steering Cemmmittee issued a statement accompanying the guidelines 
giving the background to its decisions. 
This emphasized integration 
into the system of services available from commercial banks. 
The 
'Steering Committee likewise emphasized that operating arrangements at 
different clearing centers may vary sufficiently to a c c o m m o d a t e — w i t h i 
the basic guidelines — the substantial differences that exist across 
the nation in banking structure, population density, volume of check 
traffic, and differences in geography and topography which affect 
highway and other transportation facilities for the movement of checks 

250 
Other members of tiie Steering Committee Are Reserve Board 
Governors Sherman J. Maisel and John E. Sheehan (succeeding former 
Governor William V . Sherrill), Reserve Bank Presidents George H. Clay 
of Kansas City, Aubrey N . Heflin of Richmond, and Eliot J. Sv/an of 
San Francisco, and the First Vice Presidents of the Chicago and the New 
York Reserve Ranks, Ernest T. Baughman and William F. Treiber. 
The size of an area served by a clearing center will be 
determined chiefly by the distance that surface or air transport 
(where that is the more practical and economical means of check 
gathering and delivery) can travel to pick up, during the afternoon, 
the day's crop of checks deposited in participating banks, bring these 
to the clearing center for processing and settlement during the night, 
and deliver them early the next morning to banks against which checks 
deposited the day before were drawn. 
Participation by banks in the new system will be on an 
entirely voluntary basis, but every effort will be made to secure the 
cooperation of all banks,,whether or not they are members of the 
Federal Reserve System. 
A clearing center will accept from participating banks in its 
clearing region all checks written on other participating banks in 
the region. 
It will also accept, from Federal Reserve member banks, 
checks drawn upon banks outside the region, 
U.S. Government checks, 
postal money orders, and other items payable at a Federal Reserve 
offices will be accepted from participating banks, wherever they 
originate. 
The Steering Committee's statement, and the guidelines, are 
a ttached. 

I 
:5i 
STATEMENT BY THE SYSTEM STEERING COMMITTEE 
ON IMPROVING THE PAYMENTS MECHANISM 
On June 17, 1971, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System issued a Statement of Policy calling, as a matter of urgency, for 
changes in the present check clearing system in order to bring about 
significant savings in manpower, eliminate unnecessary handling of checks, 
and achieve faster, more convenient and more economical banking services 
for the public. 
Among actions to which it gave high priority, the Board asked 
for the following improvements in the nation's means of making payments: 
1 . 
In cities where Federal Reserve offices are located, 
the expansion of present areas for overnight clearing 
into larger zones of immediate payment. 
2 . 
Establishment—where warranted by the need for more 
expeditious and economical check handling, or other 
circumstances--of other regional facilities for over-
night check clearance and settlement in immediately 
available funds. 
Under authority from the Board of Governors, the System Steering 
Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism has approved guidelines to 
implement the Board's policy with respect to Regional Check Processing 
Centers that were developed by the Committee on Collections of the Con-
ference of First Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
As background to these guidelines, the Steering Committee has 
the following observations. 
The nation's check payments system should evolve in a manner 
that will achieve overall efficiency, taking into account both public 
and private costs. 
To this end, and because neither the Federal Reserve 
,l
or the commercial banks can separately provide as efficient a system as 
they can jointly, the Steering Committee seeks methods of complementing 
essential check handling activities of the commercial banks in the most 
effective manner. 
In general, the guidelines adopted by the Steering Committee 
v
>ould limit the Federal Reserve's check collection role to (1) facili-
tating the local exchange of checks when the checks are drawn on and paid 
banks located in the came community, metropolitan area, or region, and 
(2) assuming greater responsibility for providing a more efficient system 
handling inter-regional checks and doing so on as uniform a basis as 
easible. 
The guidelines are not regarded as imposing constraints upon 
the continued use and development of check handling facilities of the 
commercial banking system. 

232 
-2-
Electronic data processing is used for most checks today, hut 
not all banks choose to operate check processing equipment. 
Many banks 
find it more convenient and economical to send their checks to correspon-
dent banks or service bureaus for sorting and accounting. 
The Steering 
Commit tee-.-believes that, because of the scale economies achieved in 
electronic processing operations, it is likely that in the near future, 
subject t:-o the economics of chock transportation, all checks, upon receipt 
at the bank of first deposit, will be routed into such centers. 
Thus, 
checks will, at the earliest possible point in their movement, be converted 
to a machine-readable form so that thereafter they can be handled primarily 
by high speed electronic and mechanical equipment. 
Up to the present time, Federal Reserve offices have accepted 
in limited numbers checks that are not amount encoded, just as, for several 
years, they accepted checks that did not have MICR identification. 
However, 
considering the facilities now available, the time is near at hand for 
establishing a standard of machinability for all items coming into a 
Federal Reserve clearing center that would include the amount being encoded 
in magnetic ink and otherwise fully qualified according to the MICR program 
standards established by The American Bankers Association. 
As a further-
aid to the efficiency of the System's check processing operations, it would 
be desirable, in the near future, to require limited basic sorts of items 
corning into the center in order to speed up subsequent handling. 
Across the nation, there are substantial differences in banking 
structure as well as in population density and, therefore, the volume of 
check activity. 
There are also differences in geography and topography 
which affect highway and other transportation facilities available for 
the movement of checks. These environmental variations mean that complete 
uniformity in the organization and operation of check clearing facilities 
is impractical. 
For example, the size and character of facilities needed to 
expedite the exchange of local checks may differ significantly from one 
part of the country to another. 
In state-wide branching states, most of 
the large branching systems have consolidated their check processing in one 
or two officcs, and they usually exchange checks directly with other large 
systems, using their Federal Reserve accounts for a net settlement. 
More-
over, checks coming into a Federal Reserve facility serving such banks 
need only be sorted to the parent unit, thus, significantly reducing 
clearing center sorting. 
In the past clearing facilities serving unit banking states must 
have been prepared to make sorts to every banking office. Even in those 
states, however, the tendency i.s toward the clustering of demand deposit 
accounting and transit operations in correspondent, service bureau, and 
holding company processing centers. This development opens the way for 

-2-
intercepting the items coming from a given bank and drawn on other banks 
served in the same processing center. Thus, operation in these processing 
centers can reduce t:he volume of work at the clearing center by reducing 
the number of end points for sorted checks through the consolidation of 
itnras destined to the same processing center. Arrangements of this type 
which can be devised for each clearing center are indicative of the way 
in which closer integration of Federal Reserve and commercial bank activ-
ities can significantly reduce overall check handling and transportation 
costs. 
The following guidelines are applicable to all Federal Reserve 
Regional Clearing operations in present locations or in newly created 
special facilit ies. They are intended to achieve as much uniformity in 
clearing operations as is feasible under varying present-day conditions. 
#### 
January 31, 1972 

254 
GUIDELINES FOR FEDERAL RESERVE REGIONAL CHECK PROCESSING CENTERS 
D efinitions 
a . A "Federal Reserve Regional Check Processing Center ("RCPC") 
is a facility in which check collection operations are performed 
by or on behalf of a Federal Reserve Bank for (1) the deposit, 
by the participating banks, with the RCPC of checks and other 
cash items o n , or payable at, other banks in the RCPC area and, 
in certain cases, banks outside the RCPC area; (2) the collection 
of items drawn on participating banks, deposited outside the area 
and routed through certain channels; (3) the processing, exchange, 
clearing, and presentment of such .items by the RCPC; and (4) the 
payment on the day of presentment in immediately available funds 
(Federal Reserve balances) by each participating bank for such 
items. 
In accordance with such definition, it should be noted 
that an RCPC might be at a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, a 
Federal Reserve special facility, or a bureau or other clearing 
center or arrangement sponsored by a Federal Reserve Bank, 
b . 
A "Participating Bank" is a bank which pays in immediately avail-
able funds for items presented to it through the RCPC. 
c. A "Member Bank" is a bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve 
System, 
d . 
An "RCPC area" is a defined geographical area which includes 
within its boundaries an RCPC and all its participating banks. 
e. A "District" is a Federal Reserve District. 

f. A "Territory" is the area assigned to a particular Federal Reserve 
office within a Federal Reserve District. 
Geographie location 
a. The RCPC area should encompass communities whose trade, business, 
and financial activities are substantially related and generate a 
sufficient volume of check payment transactions to justify an 
efficient processing operation. 
Crossing State, District or 
Territory lines should not be a deterrent in defining the area. 
Where the possibility of an inter-District or inter-Territory 
RCPC exists, studies and plans will be coordinated between the 
Federal Reserve offices involved. 
b. 
Since the RCPC operations must be conducted largely between the 
close of banking business one day and the early business hours on 
the next day, transportation time between the participating banks 
and the RCPC, as well as the center's processing capabilities, 
should determine the geographical size of an RCPC area. 
c. 
In general, an RCPC should have automated clearing and tele-
communication capabilities to serve as the basis for a transition 
to the widespread use of paperless entries and to service the 
developing needs of the banks as the region's payments transactions 
require it. 
Eligible sender and payor banks 
a. A n RCPC will accept for processing and collection from all its 
participating banks cash items drawn on other banks in the same 
RCPC area. 

b. An RCPC will accept from its participating banks which are members 
of the Federal Reserve System cash items drawn on banks outside 
the RCPC area. 
c. A fully operational RCPC will accept cash items from all Federal 
Reserve offices, other RCPCs, and Federal Reserve member banks 
located outside the RCPC area on terms and conditions comparable 
to those applicable to RCPC participating member banks. 
d . Where volumes and efficiencies warrant, local clearing arrange-
ments in the RCPC area should continue in operation and the banks 
involved should continue to package-sort separately items drawn 
on other banks in such clearing arrangements and should exchange 
items directly. 
Payment for cash letters 
Each participating bank shall make provisional payment in imme-
diately available funds on the banking day of presentment for the 
items presented to it. 
Expenditures for RCPCs 
a . All costs of time RCPCs other than for incoming transportation of 
checks, except as provided in b, shall be borne by the Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
b. 
Certain incoming transportation charges, for example, those related 
to pick-up points for the consolidation of shipments to the RCPCs 
may be assumed in whole or in part by the Federal Reserve Bank if 
by doing so a rr:ore nearly optimal, overall use of equipment, personnel 
and transportation facilities will be achieved. 

257 
Federal Reserve routing symbol 
The Fecit" al Resetve will assign an immediate ciedit vouting symbol 
to all participating banks in an RCPC area. 
Eligible cash items, deposit deadlines, and sorting requirements 
a. An RCPC will accept from its participating banks all cash items 
drawn on offices of other banks participating in the same RCPC. 
However, "on us" items will not be accepted from any partici-
pating bank, and, subject to negotiation, banks and nonbank agents 
performing check processing for others should exclude from their 
deposits in the RCPC items drawn on banks which they are servicing. 
b. 
U . S. Government checks, postal money orders, and other items 
payable at a Federal Reserve office will be accepted from partici-
pating banks at all RCPCs. 
c. 
Sorting requirements and deposit deadlines should be set to promote 
efficient handling and timely presentation of items. 
Participating 
member banks may deposit up to 2,000 items per day with the RCPC 
unsorted . 
MICR encoding requirements 
In general, items from depositing banks should be amount-encoded 
in magnetic ink and fully qualified according to the American Banker 
Association MICR program standards. 
January 31, 1972 

258 
Item No. 4 
1/31/72 
• FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
U . Si BANCORl? 
c 
Order Denying Determination under § 4(c)(8) of Bank Holding Company Act 
U . S. Bancorp, Portland, Oregon, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, has applied 
for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire all of the voting shares of 
Securities-Intermountain, Inc. ("Simco"), Portland, Oregon. 
Notice 
of the application affording opportunity for interested persons to 
submit comments and views was duly published. The time for filing 
comments and views has expired and all received have been considered, 
including those presented orally and in writing in connection with 
a Board hearing on November 8, 1971, pertaining to mortgage banking 
in general, and this application in particular. 
Applicant owns the United States National Bank ("Bank"), 
a $1.5 billion deposit institution headquartered in Portland, Oregon. 
Bank holds 37.7 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in 
the State of Oregon, and is one of the two largest commercial banks 
in the State, which together hold 79.5 per cent of total State deposits. 
Historically, Bank has made residential loans for its 
own account. 
In its most recent fiscal year, Bank originated over 
million in mortgage loans in the Portland area that were sold 
y 
Deposit data as of June 1971. 

-2-
259 
to long-term investors. 
In addition, it originated $6.5 million 
in construction and real estate development loans for its own account. 
Bank entered the mortgage banking business in 1967 through 
the acquisitions of Thomas Mortgage Company and Commerce Mortgage 
Company ("Commerce"). 
In its most recent fiscal year, Commerce 
originated $13.5 million in mortgage loans in the Portland area that 
were sold to long-term investors, and $9.9 million in construction 
and real estate development loans for its own account. 
In the same 
period, Commerce's Spokane, Washington, office originated $12.1 million 
of mortgage loans that were sold to long-term investors, and over 
$6 million in construction and real estate development loans for its 
own account. Commerce has a servicing volume of over $91 million 
in loans from the Spokane market alone. Based on its total mortgage 
servicing volume of $372 million, Commerce is the 52nd largest mortgage 
banking company in the United States.-^ 
Simco engages in the origination and servicing of all types 
of mortgage loans through offices located in Portland, Oregon; Seattle, 
Spokane and Bellevue, Washington; and Palo Alto, California. 
In its 
last fiscal year, Simco's Portland office originated and sold $4.8 million 
in mortgage loans, and originated $5.4 million in construction loans. 
During the same period, its Spokane office originated $1.3 million 
mortgage loans and $1.9 million construction loans. Simco has a 
servicing volume of $22.7 million in loans from tho Spokane market alone. 
2/ Servicing portfolio as of June 30, 1971. 

260 
-3 
Based on its total mortgage servicing volume of $205 million, Simco 
3/ 
is the 100th largest mortgage banking company in the country. 
The Board finds that the proposed acquisition would eliminate 
substantial existing competition between Applicant and Simco in botft 
the Portland and Spokane markets,-^ where the two are direct competitors. 
Moreover, through its subsidiary, Commerce Mortgage Company, Applicant 
has the present capability of expanding de novo into the Seattle-fellevue 
market, where Simco's mortgage loan portfolio exceeds $88 million, 
Thus, 
the proposed acquisition would have an adverse effect on potential 
competition. The Board also views unfavorably the undue concentiation 
of economic resources that would result from the proposed acquisition, 
considering Applicant's present substantial position in commerc&l and 
mortgage banking in Oregon. 
3/ Servicing portfolio as of June 30, 1971. 
4/ According to the Statements of Robert Wilson, President, U . S . Bancorp, 
and Robert James, Treasurer, Securities-Intermountain, Inc., Commerce 
accounted for 2.4 per cent of total mortgages recorded during the first 
nine months of 1971 in the Portland area, while Simco acc/unted for 1 per 
cent. 
(Simco s 1970 share of the Portland area represented 3.2 per cent 
according to the application.) 
In Spokane, the two firos had a combined 
share of approximately 20 per cent. 
See Board Hearing* on Bank Holding 
Company Acquisition of Mortgage Companies, November 8, 1971, pp. 125., 132. 
With respect to the elimination of existing competition, the Conference 
Report accompanying the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act 
states: 
"Where a bank holding company seeks to engage in related activi-
ties through acquisition, in whole or in part, of a going concern, the 
elimination of existing competition will be an important negative factor, 
for other subsidiaries of the bank holding company, or the company itself, 
may already be providing the products and services in the market served 
by the company to be acquired. 
In such circumstances, where the possible 
benefits to the public of bank holding company activity are already being 
provided, the elimination of an independent competitive alternative will 
weigh heavily in the balance against approval." 
Report No. 91-1747, p. 17. 

261 
-4-
tf the proposed acquisition were approved, Applicant and 
Simco would offer approximately the same range of services as Applicant 
presently offers; the public would gain few, if any, benefits therefrom. 
The Board finds that the proposed acquisition would not result in greater 
convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency to the public 
that outweigh the probable adverse effects. 
Accordingly, based upon the foregoing and other considerations 
reflected in the record, the application is denied. 
By order of the Board of G o v e r n o r s ^ January 31, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
5/ Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governors 
Mitchell and Brimmer. 

The following salary increases and title changes for officials w e r ^ b k * 
approved by the Board on 1-31-72 and, unless otherwise indicated, 
are effective on 1-9-72. 
I t e m ^ 
5 
1/31/72 
BOARD MEMBERS STAFF 
R . Solomon . 
R . Cardon 
H . Hackley 
D . Hexter 
C . Molony 
E . Johnson 
J . Coyne 
F . O'Brien 
J . Rippcy 
Proposed Salary 
38,500 
37,000 
37,000 
• 
37,000 
37,000 
35,100 
27,600 
26,300 
25,500 
Title Change 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
R . Holland 
D . Melnicoff 
G . Grimwood 
W . Layton 
39,000 
38,500 
32,800 
30,000 
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES 
J . Kelleher 
D . Anderson 
J . Smith 
33,500 
28,000 
27,000 
DATA PROCESSING 
J . Slocum 
C . Hampton 
B . Knowles 
R . Watt 
G . Cummins 
H . Meetze 
36,000 
34,500 
29,000 
29,000 
28,200 
27,500 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 
OPERATIONS 
. J . Mcintosh 
34,500 
J . Kiley 
33,000 
L . Schaeffer 
30,100 
C . Walcutt 
31,100 
D . Ring 
28,900 
W . Althausen 
. 
29,000 
H . Guinter 
28,700 
J . Vinlng 
27,300 
D . Barnes 
24,500 

- 2 -
263 
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE 
*R. Bryant 
R . Samrnons 
A . Horsey 
J . Reynolds.-
R . GeminiII 
R . Irvine 
S . Pizer 
R>. Wood 
S . Katz 
Proposed Salary 
36,000 
35,700 
35.,700 
34,000 
35,000 
34,200 
35,000 
35,100 
32,000 
Title Change 
LEGAL 
T . O'Connell 
R . Sanders 
P . Heller 
37,000 
33,000 
29,300 
OFFICE OF THE CONTROLLER 
J . Kakalec 
34,500 
H . Halley 
33,000 
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY 
T . Smith 
36,000 
K . Kenyon 
34,600 
A . Broida 
. 
35,500 
M . Altmann 
31,700 
N . Bernard 
29,000 
E . Carmichael 
27,200 
PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION 
R . Burke 
33,500 
J . Hart 
28,000 
RESEARCH & STATISTICS 
J . Partee 
38,500 
S . Axil rod 
37,000 
L . Cramley 
37,000 
S . Chase 
36,000 
S . Sigcl 
35,100 
M . Wernick 
35,100 ' 
p . Keir 
. 
34,900- 
Adviser 
J . Pierce 
34,900 
Adviser 
J . Eckert 
34,000 
— 
J . Zelsel 
3 4 , 3 0 0 s 
Associate Adviser 
L . Weiner 
32,800' 
.. K . Williams 
32,800-
S . Taylor 
32,800-
E . Ettin 
32,300 
L . Cnrabedian 
26,000 
•Effective 1-13-72. 

i 
2 6 4 
SUPERVISION & REGUIATION 
Proposed Salary 
Title Change 
F . Solomon 
" 
37,000 
B . Leavitt . 
• 36,500 
J. McClintock 
30,800 
F . Dahl 
29,500 
J. Lyon 
30,500 
J . Hart 
29,700 
J. Egertson 
29,500 
T . Sidman 
28,200 
J. Flaherty 
27,400 
X 
# 

265 
The following appointments to official staff with new titles were 
approved by the Board on 1-31-72 and, unless otherwise indicated, 
are effective on that date. 
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES 
* W . Kreimann 
LEGAL DIVISION 
R . Plotkin 
P . Gardner 
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY 
* * M . Greenspan 
RESEARCH & STATISTICS 
E . Stockwell Frase 
Proposed Salary 
$30,000 
29,000 
26,000 
25,000 
31,700 
Title 
Deputy Director 
Adviser 
Assistant General 
Counsel 
Assistant Secretary 
\ 
\ 
Assistant Adviser 
*Effective date of employment. 
**Effeetive March 6 , 1972. 
•jH 
