Minutes for 
November 9, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4278 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, November 9, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tra tion 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Cloth, Attorney, Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull, Cleaver, and Lougee of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sanford, Review Examiner, Division of Examina-
tions 
Application of Marine Midland Trust Company (Item No. 1). There 
». Mix • V;.s ' . r,ii • : , - . . : 
, . 
had been distributed memoranda dated October 11 and November 6, 1967, 
from the Legal and Examinations Divisions, respectively, relating to 
' 
' 
e aPplication of Marine Midland Trust Company of Western New York, 
Buffalo, New York, for permission to establish a branch in an unincor-
P°rated area of the Town of Evans in Erie County. The application pre-
•V • j* * .-i* 
. .. . t 4 '!',}- 
. ; 
i 
-I ; „, . , 
Sented both legal and nonlegal issues. 

4279 
11/9/67 
-2-
Counsel for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had expressed 
the view that the operation of the branch would appear to be illegal 
under State law, and the initial recommendation of the Reserve Bank 
was for denial, considerable weight being given to the legal question. 
However, the New York State banking authorities had approved the opera-
tion of the branch. The Division of Examinations recommended approval 
after analysis of all available information, including views expressed 
by proponents and opponents who had visited the Board's offices. The 
Legal Division, taking into account only the legal aspects of the case, 
also recommended approval, on the basis that the Board was justified in 
accepting the position of the State authorities. Upon reconsideration 
at the request of the Division of Examinations, and despite certain 
reservations, the Reserve Bank changed its recommendation to one of 
approval. 
The legal problem arose from an ambiguity of State law, which 
Provides that an out-of-town branch may be established, under certain 
circumstances, in an incorporated or unincorporated village. No defi-
nition of "unincorporated village" was contained in the law, and no 
State court had interpreted the phrase. A recent Federal court deci-
sion prevented a national bank from establishing a branch under condi-
tions similar in some respects to those of the pending application. In 
driving at its decision the Federal court included certain factors in the 
determination of an "unincorporated village" additional to those consid-
ered sufficient guidelines by the State banking authorities. 

4280 
11/9/67 
-3-
During discussion of the legal problem at today's meeting, it 
was noted that the possibility existed that one or more independent 
banks might bring suit against the State banking authorities and, if 
the application was approved by the Board, also perhaps against the 
Federal Reserve. However, Mr. Hackley expressed the view that unless 
and until any suit was brought it was appropriate for the Board to rely 
on the State's interpretation of the law in acting on the application. 
Had a suit already been brought to contest the legality of the branch, 
the Board presumably would want to defer action pending the outcome of 
the litigation, as it had done recently in other cases. But no such 
litigation had been instituted. 
Comments by members of the Board disclosed that they were favor-
ably disposed toward approval of the branch application; on the legal 
Point, they expressed willingness to accept the interpretation of the 
law by the State banking authorities. 
Governor Maisel said that, although he would approve the pending 
application, his position was taken in the absence of any Board policy 
°n the extent to which banking concentration should be taken into 
account in considering branch applications. That factor was considered 
by 
the Board in acting upon bank merger and bank holding company appli-
cations, but in the case of branch applications no policy had been 
established. In this particular instance, Marine Midland was the dom-
inant bank in the general area and operated numerous branches. If the 

42 
11/9/67 
-4-
Board had a policy in respect to concentration, it would provide a use-
ful benchmark against which to consider such an application. 
Governor Robertson observed that he doubted whether agreement 
among the bank supervisory agencies on such a policy was feasible. How-
ever, that need not preclude the Board from adopting a policy, if it so 
desired, applicable to branch applications by State member banks. He 
suggested that the staff prepare a study, for the Board's consideration, 
on whether the standards applied in merger and holding company cases 
with regard to banking concentration should be applied also in the case 
°f branch applications. 
Following further discussion of the point, it was understood 
that such a study should be made. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to Marine Midland 
Trust Company of Western New York approving the establishment of the 
Proposed branch in the Town of Evans. A copy of the letter is attached 
a s Item No. 1. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
Posed merger of Bank of Clarksdale, Clarksdale, Mississippi, and Bank 
Lambert, Lambert, Mississippi, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is no significant competition between Bank 
of Clarksdale, Clarksdale, Mississippi, and Bank of 
Lambert, Lambert, Mississippi, to be eliminated by the 
Proposed merger. However, the merger would foreclose 

VZhZ 
11/9/67 
-5-
the modest potential for competition between them while 
increasing in size the bank that presently is the largest 
one headquartered in the overall area. It is concluded 
that the effect on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Policy record entries. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from Mr. Holland dated November 1, 1967, submitting a draft of entry 
for the record of policy actions of the Federal Open Market Committee 
covering the meeting held on September 12, 1967, as revised to take 
account of comments received following distribution of a preliminary 
draft. The entry was now submitted for approval by the Board for 
inclusion in its Annual Report for 1967. If approved, the entry would 
be distributed to the members of the Open Market Committee and other 
Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily for information but with an indica-
tion of the date by which any further comments should be submitted. The 
entry would be released to the press about December 11, after final 
review by the Board, and published in the December Federal Reserve Bul-
letin. 
t.'lo • , > , _ _ 
, . • ... . ; 
With a memorandum from Mr. Holland dated November 6, 1967, 
there had been distributed a revised draft of policy record entry cover-
ing 
the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on August 15. It 
d S Proposed to relea se the entry to the press on Monday, November 13, 
with subsequent publication in the Federal Reserve Bulletin, and the 
entry Was now being submitted for final review by the Board prior to 
release. An earlier version, approved by the Board on October 25, was 
Subsequently distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents, and two minor 

4 2 8 3 
11/9/67 
-6-
changes of an editorial nature suggested at staff level had been incor-
porated in the text of the entry now before the Board. 
Governor Daane expressed concern about the interpretations 
that might be placed on the language used, particularly in the August 15 
entry, in referring to the fact that the President's recommended fiscal 
Program was under consideration by the Congress. He suggested alterna-
tive language, for both entries, along lines that uncertainty with 
respect to the final outcome of Congressional consideration of the pro-
Posed fiscal program was among the factors suggesting no change in mone-
tary policy. After discussion, agreement on such language was reached, 
and it was understood that the respective entries would be modified 
accordingly. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the entry for the Sep-
tember 12 meeting for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report, with the 
understanding that it was contemplated the entry would be released to 
the press, after final Board review, at the approximate time indicated 
in December. 
The release to the press on Monday, November 13, of the entry 
relating to the August 15 meeting was approved unanimously. 
Retention of employee (Item No. 2). Unanimous approval was 
t; .» ;•.;,> 
given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York approving the 
f-J"' • • 
further retention of Clifton R. Gordon beyond normal retirement age as 
Erector of the Bank's Relocation Office. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 2. 

4 2 8 4 
11/9/67 
-7-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Pursuant to the recom-
mendation of the Division of Administrative 
Services, Governor Robertson approved on 
behalf of the Board on November 8, 1967, 
an increase in the basic annual salary of 
Hersey M. Woods, Jr., Elevator Mechanic-
Operating Engineer in that Division, from 
$7,758 to $8,154, effective October 31, 
1967. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Acceptance of resignations 
Linda Kay Goukler, Senior Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, 
effective the close of business November 9, 1967. 
Jennifer E. Stanford, Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, effective the close of business November 7, 1967. 
On November 9, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo- 
3 
ration regarding the application of The Gerber 
State Bank, Argenta, Illinois, for continuation 
°f deposit insurance after withdrawal from mem-
bership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Si. _the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Letter to State Bank of DeKalb, DeKalb, Texas, 
aPproving an investment in bank premises. 
4 

4285 
vje*.' 
,V 
11/9/67 
-8-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch at First 
Street and Shaw Avenue, Fresno. 
Item No. 
•ir n;r 
; i : 

4286 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
Item No. 1 
11/9/67 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 9, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Marine Midland Trust Company of 
Western New York, 
Buffalo, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch by Marine Midland Trust 
Company of Western New York, Buffalo, New York, at 9094 Erie 
Road, Town of Evans (unincorporated area), Erie County, New York, 
provided the branch is established within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
In considering this application, the Board finds that 
your bank's management is satisfactory and that careful attention 
is being given to your bank's capital position. The Board has 
concluded on the basis of the facts of record that the proposed 
branch would benefit present customers of your bank who reside 
in its vicinity, that such establishment would add a convenient 
alternative source of banking services for other residents of the 
area, and that establishment of the proposed branch would not 
have any seriously adverse competitive effects. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

\ZH7 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
* W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
11/11/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 9, 1967 
Mr. Thomas M. Timlen, Jr., 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Timlen: 
As requested in your letter of October 23, 1967, the 
Board of Governors approves the retention of Mr. Clifton R. 
Gordon as Director of your Relocation Office at Ithaca, New York, 
for a period of one year after he attains age 72 on November 7, 
1967. It is understood that his employment may be terminated 
earlier than one year at the discretion of the officers of the 
Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

*4L RES^'* 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1 1 / 1 1 / 6 7 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 13, 1967 
The Honorable K. A. Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. Randall: 
Reference is made to your letter of November 8, 1967, 
concerning the application of The Gerber State Bank, Argenta, 
Illinois, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations states, on behalf of the Board of Governors, that 
there have been no corrective programs urged upon the bank, or 
agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, and there 
are no programs that the Director would advise be incorporated as 
conditions of admitting the bank to membership in the Corporation 
as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1281) 
C O P Y 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K O F D A L L A S 
Item No. 4 
11/9/67 
DALLAS. T E X A S 
75222 
Xov«£b«r 9, X9o7 
Mr. Odie Huaa«H, President 
fltuto 2Sank of DeKalb 
P. 0. Box 663 
DeXalb, toa 75559 
Dear lb*. Sua a ell* 
This refers to your letter of Bovwnber 3# 1967, 
requesting approval to espied ajjpraaiimtely $105,000 for tha 
construction of now bank quarter** 
On behalf of the Board of Governor8, acting under 
delegated authority, thia Back baa approved an inveetiaent by 
the State Bank of DeKalb, MCalb, tau, of |9*,000 for archi-
tect feea and for conatructioa of scar tanking quarter® and 
parking facility. The eaoont approved la in addition to the 
411,000 inveatment in land previously acquired aa a site for 
the u w building. Thia approval la granted unler the provi-
oiooa of Section SkA of the Federal Deserve Act. 
Oixccroly, 
Theme 8. Sullivan 
Tioa President 
bcc: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
'i'L'e'i idui-

4290 
F E D E R A L , 
I 
S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
HAN F R A N C I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
9 4 1 2 0 
November 9, 1967 
Item No. 5 
11/9/67 
Mr. Robert i. Steele, 
Assistant Vii.'- President, 
Wells Fargo b. ak, 
464 Califjrn,: Street, 
S n Francisc \ California 94120. 
Dorr Mr. Steele: 
f > 1 
{ 
.-If of the Boa^d >f Govern y* f the 
Federal 
— S y s t e m , acting vmder del^g^ted authority 
this Ban': 
.Torove£_an extension tp^«v 17, 1968, of 
the time within wjrlch Welly Fargo W n k may establish a 
branch ffic? -/ the interaction ok First Street and 
Shaw A"enie. Fresno, California. Thr^ extension is 
granted with 
understanding that your bank will be 
in ji^ixaai :io i a, proceed at that time or will withdrm* 
re a??li:atr r 
Thi extension ie granted in connection with 
the request 
mtainad in your letter dated November 6, 
1967. 
1 
Very truly youra, 
(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
