MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 24, 1969 

2943 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, September 24, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Fisher, Lawrence, and Schweitzer of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Snyder of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Burton of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Foreign banking matters. Unanimous approval was given to letters 
t o Bank of America and First Chicago International Banking Corporation, 
both of New York, New York, granting their requests for permission to 

9/24/69 
-2-
issue promissory notes with maturities in excess of one year to the 
Export-Import Bank of the United States up to totals of $15,000,000 
and $20,000,000, respectively. Copies of the letters are attached as 
Items 1 and 2. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Scarsdale National Bank 
and Trust Company, Scarsdale, New York, with The Scarsdale National 
Bank & Trust Company, also of Scarsdale, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
stating that consummation of the proposed merger(which was merely a 
formality to assure Charter New York Corporation that it would be the 
sole holder of shares of The Scarsdale National Bank & Trust Company, 
except for directors' qualifying shares) would in itself have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Bank of Commerce, Newark, New Jersey, into The First Jersey 
National Bank, Jersey City, New Jersey, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion reading 
a s follows: 
The proposed merger of Bank of Commerce, Newark, 
into The First Jersey National Bank, Jersey City, would 
eliminate a small amount of competition; however, there 
would remain in the Newark market a sizable number of 
banking alternatives, including the State's largest 
financial institutions. Overall, the effect of the proposal 
on competition would be slightly adverse. 

9/24/69 
-3-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities of Seaford Building 
and Loan Association, Seaford, Delaware, by Wilmington Savings Fund 
Society, Wilmington, Delaware, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion stating 
that the proposed acquisition of the noninsured institution would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 
After a discussion that resulted in an understanding that the text 
of the report would be revised somewhat to bring out more clearly the 
reasons why the effect of the proposed transaction on competition 
would be adverse, a report on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed consolidation of The Union National Bank of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and Peoples Union Bank and Trust Company, 
National Association, McKeesport, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
reading as follows: 
The Union National Bank of Pittsburgh and Peoples Union 
Bank and Trust Company, National Association, McKeesport, are 
important competitors in the Pittsburgh market. While the two 
banks serve different communities and are not in direct compe-
tition, consummation of the proposed transaction would perma-
nently foreclose the development of increased competition 
between them. Pittsburgh is already one of the most highly 
concentrated banking markets in the nation and consummation 
of the proposed transaction would significantly increase that 
concentration. The overall effect of the proposed consolidation 
on competition would be adverse. 
After discussion, a report on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of 

9/24/69 
-4-
State Bank of Wilbur, Wilbur, Washington, by The National Bank of 
Commerce of Seattle, Seattle, Washington, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency in a form in which the 
conclusion read as follows: 
The National Bank of Commerce of Seattle operates 
the only banking office within 15 miles of State Bank 
of Wilbur, and thus the proposal would eliminate existing 
competition and one of two alternatives in that area. 
Consummation of the proposed transaction would increase 
the already high level of concentration in the State of 
Washington where the two largest banks, including The 
National Bank of Commerce of Seattle, hold approximately 
50 per cent of total commercial bank deposits. The overall 
competitive effect of the proposal would be adverse. 
Colorado CNB Bankshares. 
Issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting approval on September 5, 1969, of the application of Colorado 
CNB Bankshares, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of Lakewood 
Colorado National Bank, Lakewood, Colorado, was authorized. Copies of 
the documents are attached under Item No. 3. 
Reassignment of territory. 
On July 10, 1969, the Board of 
Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis had acted, subject to 
the approval of the Board of Governors, to transfer three counties in the 
State of Arkansas (Clay, Greene, and Randolph) from the head office 
territory to the Memphis Branch zone. Approval was recommended in a 
memorandum from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated 
September 9, 1969. 
a 
Pursuant to 
letter to the St. 
the recommendation, unanimous approva1 was given to 
Louis Reserve Bank approving the proposed reassignment 

2947 
9/24/69 
-5-
of territory and requesting that the Board of Governors be advised when 
the effective date of the transfer had been determined. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
Meeting of Central Bank Technicians. Pursuant to the recommendations 
contained in a memorandum from the Director of the Division of International 
Finance dated September 19, 1969, unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to the Central Reserve Bank of Peru advising of the composition of 
the Federal Reserve System delegation to the Ninth Meeting of Central 
Bank Technicians of the American Continent, to be held in Lima, Peru, 
from November 17 to 21, 1969, and of the assignments that had been made 
for preparation of comments on certain papers to be discussed at the 
meeting. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
Officer salary guidelines. Pursuant to recommendation of the 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the Chairmen and Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks establishing guidelines for use by the directors 
°f the respective Banks in requesting approval of proposed salaries of 
officers, other than the President and First Vice President, for the 
calendar year beginning January 1, 1970. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
Testimony on mortgage interest rates. The Commission on Mortgage 
Interest Rates, a body established by statute "to study mortgage interest 
fates and to make recommendations to assure the availability of an adequate 

2948 
9/24/74 
-6-
supply of mortgage credit at a reasonable cost to the consumer", had 
published its report in August, and Chairman Martin had been requested 
to testify on Friday, September 26, before the Senate Committee on Banking 
and Currency. A draft of testimony had been made available with a 
memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated September 23, 
1969. 
While the draft testimony was regarded as generally satisfactory 
by Governors Mitchell and Daane, critical comments were made by Governor 
Maisel with regard to certain portions of the proposed statement. In 
all but one instance, however, it was possible to reach agreement on 
negotiated changes in language. 
The remaining point involved the following question. The 
Commission had recommended that the statutory 6 per cent interest rate 
ceiling on FHA and VA mortgage loans be permanently abolished, that 
during a three-year trial period the FHA-VA market operate with a much 
greater degree of flexibility so that a concerted effort could be made 
to eliminate the practice of charging discount points on newly-originated 
mortgages, and that to provide a transition toward greater flexibility 
the Congress enact legislation establishing a dual market system that 
would go into effect for three years upon expiration of existing authority. 
One part of the system would continue much as at present. In the other 
Portion the rate on an individual FHA-VA mortgage would be determined by 
the market but discounts would be prohibited. 

. u; > ,; 
9/24/69 
-7-
The draft testimony noted that for many years the Board had 
favored greater flexibility in contract interest rates on Government-
underwritten mortgages as a means of assuring maximum participation in 
that market. The Commission's recommendation for permanent abolition 
of the statutory ceiling of 6 per cent on FHA and VA loans was endorsed 
as a useful step in that direction. Those comments were followed, 
however, by an expression of view that the Commission's proposal for a 
three-year trial period during which a dual market system would be in 
effect might unnecessarily prolong what should be a simple additional 
step, namely, permanent removal of administrative rate ceilings as well. 
Governor Maisel took the position that the inclusion of such an 
expression amounted to rejection of a vital Commission recommendation, 
a step that in his opinion was not warranted. After some discussion of 
this point during which it was recognized that a question of policy, to 
be decided by the Board, was involved, Chairman Martin (who had been 
°ut of the room during the early part of the discussion) commented that 
he saw no strong reason why there should not be a test period if that 
W a s what the Commission had come up with, and other Board members 
expressed a willingness to accept the Chairman's judgment. 
It was then understood that the testimony would be edited in 
Ught of points agreed upon at this meeting and that it would be presented 
in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Martin. (Note: A copy of the 
statement, as presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

* > 
(v 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No 1 
S5S5&- 
OF THE 
9/24/69* 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2C551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R C S P D N O E N C 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 24, 1969 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 
10004 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of June 13, 1969, the Board of Governors grants 
approval for your Corporation to issue and have outstanding, 
in accordance with Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
and Section 211.4 of Regulation K, promissory notes payable 
to the Export-Import Bank of the United States with maturities 
in excess of one year up to a total of S15,000,0C0. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2951 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
• F 
T H E 
9/24/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 14, 1969 
First Chicago International 
Banking Corporation, 
1290 Avenue of the Americas, 
New York, New York. 
10019 
Gentlemen;', 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letters of May 6 and July 2, 1969, the Board of Governors 
grants approval for your Corporation to issue and have out-
standing, in accordance with Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Section 211.4 of Regulation K, promissory 
notes payable to the Export-Import Bank of the United States 
with maturities in excess of one year up to a total of 
$20,000,000. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 
' i 

2;-
Item No. 
9/24/69 
i . 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
COLORADO CNB BANKSHARES, INC., 
1 
Denver, Colorado, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
Lakewood Colorado National Bank, 
1 
Lakewood, Colorado. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Colorado CNB Bankshares, 
Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
voting shares of Lakewood Colorado National Bank, Lakewood, Colorado. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
0r*d requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
QPproval of the application. 

-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
I 
Federal Register on June 7, 1969 (34 Federal Register 9105), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to 
the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing coirments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D, C., this 24th day of September 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2 9 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
COLORADO CNB BANKSHARES, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
LAKEWOOD COLORADO NATIONAL BANK, LAKEWOOD, COLORADO 
STATEMENT 
Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc., Denver, Colorado ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Lakewood Colorado National Bank, 
Lakewood, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
tequired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
cation was given to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his views and 
recommendation were requested. The Comptroller concluded that the pro-
posed acquisition would be in the public interest. 
The Commissioner of Banking of the State of Colorado also 
Submitted his views to the Board, and urged that the application be 
aPproved. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 

monopoly ot wduld be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
i 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of bahking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be sub-
stantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction, • Applicant is 
fche third largest of four Denver-based bank holding companies, and is 
the third largest banking organization in the State of Colorado."^ 
Acquisition #f Bank, which holds .2 per cent of deposits in the State 
and .3 per cent of the deposits held by banks in the Denver metropolitan 
a*ea, would increase Applicant's shares of deposits in such areas to 
7.8 per cent and 11.7 per cent, respectively. 
A^ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of December 31, 1968. 

2/ 
Bank, which has deposits of $6.3 million, 
is located in 
Lakewood, an unincorporated suburb directly west of Denver, and serves 
Lakewood and adjacent suburban areas. Bank was organized in February 
1969 by directors of Applicant under emergency circumstances, as a 
successor to Rocky Mountain Bank, Lakewood. Bank is presently controlled 
by, and operates under close supervision of, Applicant's officers, and 
the present proposal was contemplated at the time of its organization. 
Two other banks, with deposits of $44 million and $16 million, 
respectively, are located in Lakewood. In addition, 13 other banks lo-
cated in the Denver metropolitan area, including Applicant's three sub-
sidiaries, compete to some extent for business originating in the area. 
These 13 banks range in deposit size from $6 million to $550 million; 
°nly three of them are smaller than Bank, and two of these are subsid-
iaries of Applicant. Consummation of the proposal would not have undue 
adverse effects on any competing bank. 
All of Applicant's three banking subsidiaries are located in 
Denver. Its largest subsidiary, Colorado National Bank, has deposits 
$281 million; the two other subsidiaries have aggregate deposits of 
about $12 million. The amount of deposits derived by the three banks 
from the Lakewood area is minimal, but all three derive a significant 
amount of loans from the area. Nevertheless, in view of the present 
relationship between Bank and Applicant, no real competition exists 
between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries, and it therefore does not 
y As of April 8, 1969. It is estimated that Bank will have about 
™ million in deposits after one year of operations. 

2957 
-4-
appear that consummation of the proposal would result in the elimination 
of a competitive alternative source of banking services. In addition, 
the emergency conditions leading to Bank's formation strongly support 
the necessity for continuation of Bank's association with an established 
banking organization, in order to restore and maintain public confidence; 
considerations bearing upon the issue of potential competition, there-
fore, do not weigh against approval of the acquisition. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in fur-
therance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
°f the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial conditions of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are 
generally satisfactory, as are their managements, and their prospects 
appear favorable. 
Bank opened on February 6, 1969, replacing a bank located on 
same premises which had been closed the previous week, by action of 
State supervisory authorities, because of financial difficulties. 
*ta financial condition is satisfactory, and its management, under the 
direction of officers of Applicant's largest subsidiary, is competent. 
*ts association with Applicant has given it stability and minimized 

2958 
-5-
deposit withdrawals; its prospects are greatly dependent upon association 
with an established organization such as Applicant. 
These considerations support approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would not affect the convenience 
or needs of customers served by its present subsidiaries. 
Lakewood, which has an estimated population of 100,000, is 6 
suburban residential community, the business activity of which is largely 
limited to service establishments. Banking needs of the area appear to 
be well-served, and several alternative sources of banking services are 
conveniently available. The association with Applicant has been bene-
ficial to Bank, and its affiliation with Applicant is considered desirable 
in the interest of assuring continued quality banking service at its lo-
cation. Such affiliation would provide Bank with a more ready source of 
capital funds vhich may be needed in the future, and would provide it 
with a stability which, in view of the financial difficulties of its 
predecessor, is important to the maintenance of public confidence. 
Considerations bearing upon the convenience and needs of the 
area served by Bank support approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
September 24, 1969. 

2 VV 5. 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2055! 
Item No. 4 
9/24/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N T 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
SEP 24 1969 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis. Missouri 
63166. 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
Referring to your August 26, 1969 letter, the Board 
of Governors approves the transfer of the counties of Greene 
Randolph, and Clay in the State of Arkansas from the Head 
Office territory to that of the Memphis Branch. 
Please notify the Board when the effective date of 
the. change is determined. 
Very truly yours, 
(&gned) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. 
Assistant 
Forrestal, 
Secretary. 

2S( 
0 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N C J R 5 
Item No. 5 
• F-THE 
9/24/69* 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
6 
" p ^ h l i i V l ^ 1 ? ' 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2055 J 
M i l * 
J ^ X . ^ i J i V - W * * . 
A D D S C S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D C N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 24, 1969. 
AIR HAIL 
Central Reserve Bank of 
Peru, 
' " 
Lima, Peru. 
Attention: Messrs. Luis R. Nosiglig. V. and Emilio Costa Urrutia 
Gentlemen: 
This will acknowledge receipt of your letters of 
July 30 and August 5 concerning the Ninth Meeting of Central Bank 
Technicians of the American Continent. We wish to inform you that 
subject to last minute changes which unforeseen circumstances may 
require, the Federal Reserve System delegation to the meeting will 
he headed by Mr. Robert Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director 
of the Division of International Finance, Board of Governors, and 
will include the following members: 
Mr. Lyle E. Gramley, Associate Director of the Division 
of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; 
Mr. Reed J. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance, Board of Governors; 
Mr. Yves Maroni, Senior Economise, Division of 
International Finance, Board of Governors; 
Mr. Fred H. Klopstock, Manager, International Research 
Department, Federal Reserve Bank of New York; 
Mr. Peter Lang, Vice President, Foreign Department, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York; 
Mr. George H. Bossy, Chief, Foreign Research Division, 
International Research Department, Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Central Reserve Bank of Peru 
-2-
We are pleased to prepare comments on the two papers 
you mentioned. Mr. Irvine will participate in Committee III 
and will present comments on the paper dealing with private 
foreign investment. Mr. Klopstock will participate in 
Committee II and will present comments on the paper dealing 
with the activities of foreign banks.. We shall be happy to 
receive these papers as soon as you are able to send them to 
us. 
We have taken note of your request that the papers 
reviewing monetary and exchange developments since the last 
meeting be sent directly to the Center for Latin American 
Monetary Stucies (CEMLA) in Mexico City. Two copies of our 
paper were mailed to CEMLA on September 19. 
We respectfully request that future correspondence 
regarding.this meeting be addressed to the head of our delega-
tion, Mr. Robert Solomon. 
Sincerely /ours, 
(Sgneft Robert 0, M m i 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

2962 
Item No. 6 
9/24/69 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
RE^** 
T° THE B a A R D 
September 24, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR> 
Dear Sir: 
As In recent years, the Board of Gcvernors is establishing 
general guidelines for use by the Board of Directors at the Federal 
Reserve Banks in requesting approval for proposed changes in officers' 
salaries, other than the President and First Vice President, for the 
year beginning January 1, 1970. 
In 1969, all Federal Reserve Banks had upward revisions in 
nonofficial salary structures; and, in conjuntion with these increases 
J-n ranges, several Federal Reserve Banks have given blanket cost-of-
iving increases. These blanket increases have averaged five per cent. 
« a Reserve Bank desires to increase its official salaries on an 
cross-the-boarc! basis, such increases up to five per cent, rounded up 
° the nearest hundred dollars, will be approved. However, Banks using 
nis procedure will be expected to confine tlntir merit adjustments, 
off^ers n t h 0 S € a c c o r a p a n y l n G Promotions, to a very limited number of 
sal 
T h e B ° a r d i S G t r o n S 1 y o f the view that the System's record of 
Aary administration at this time must reflect concern for avoiding 
ge and salary actions that indicate an over-readiness to escalate 
"tlationary trends and attitudes. 
For those Banks that prefer the approach used in prior years--
t n e guidelines are as follows: 
1. Merit increases should reflect recent performance and 
anticipated future value to the Reserve Bank. 
2. 
To maintain selectivity, the Board will not ordinarily 
approve increases of more than 50 per cent of the officer 
staff of each Reserve Bank in a given year. 

CONFIDENTIAL (FlO 
3. Promotional increases are excluded from the 50 per cent 
rule. A promotion must involve concurrent change in the 
level of responsibility, and ordinarily in titie. 
With respect to the increase in the basic salary structure 
effective January 1, 1969, the understanding as to use of titles and 
Salary Group D continues to apply. 
Except for increas es incident to promotions, requests for 
approval of sale ry changes should be made at the time of the annual 
review; at other times, only under unanticipated circumstances. 
]Q7o 
Salaries of officers proposed for the year beginning January 1, 
should be submitted to the Board of Governors not later than 
November 17, 1969. The Board believes that, as in the past, it would be 
mutually helpful if its Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
building Plans (comprised of Governor Mitchell as Committee Chairman, and 
Governors Maisel and Brimmer) could discuss with each President preliminary 
salary and promotional plans before the Bank submits its proposals forraally 
t 0 the Board of Governors for action. 
Trior to that meeting it would assist the Board staff in the 
Preparation of material for the Committee's use if proposal data could be 
submitted at least a week in advance of the meeting. A table with the 
011owing information for each officer would expedite staff review and 
analysis: Salary group, name (as it should appear on list of officers 
circulation eo other Reserve Banks), title (present and proposed), 
Principal departments or functions supervised, present salary, proposed 
^crease (merit, promotional, etc.), and proposed salary. 
c 
recent years most of the Presidents have discussed promotions 
ontemplated in the ensuing year as a result of retirements, known separ-
is h S' ° r r e s t r u c t u r i n 5 
operations. The Board believes this policy 
helpful to its consideration of merit raises, and requests each Bank 
0 include such information with its presentation this year. 
t. 
The Committee would also like to be advised, at the time of 
k * discussion of officer salaries, of plans your Bank may have for 
u U d i n g projects of a major nature during the next five years. 

2964 
\ 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
1 
It will be appreciated if each President will schedule his 
meeting with the Committee for the purpose of discussing salaries, 
promotion, and building projects prior to November 17, 1969. 
This letter is being sent to the Chairman and the President 
of each Federal Reserve Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
/
t
u 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
the CHAIRMEN AND PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
