Minutes for October 12, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3 9 : * 5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 12, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Messrs. Leavitt and Egertson, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Craig, Sanders, and Via of the Legal 
Division 
Mr. Keir of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Application of Traverse City State Bank (Items 1 and 2). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on September 28, 1967, of the application of Traverse 
City State Bank, Traverse City, Michigan, to consolidate with State 
Bank of Elk Rapids, Elk Rapids, Michigan. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
C»i • • 
• • • , 
of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached 
as Items 1 and 2. 
h , 
, . 
. : 
. : 
. • 

10/12/67 
-2-
Proposed legislation on Federal savings institutions. There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated October 11, 1967, from the 
Legal Division regarding H.R. 13118, a bill "To authorize the estab-
lishment and to provide for the regulation of Federal savings institu-
tions." The bill was the outgrowth of hearings on H.R. 10745, "To 
authorize the establishment of Federal mutual savings banks," on which 
the Board reported by letter of July 20, 1967, to the Chairman of the 
House Banking and Currency Committee. The new bill incorporated fea-
tures of H.R. 10745 and an alternative proposal by the United States 
Savings and Loan League. 
It was expected that hearings on H.R. 13118 would be held before 
the House Banking and Currency Committee in the near future. The Board 
had not been asked for its views on the bill, either in the form of a 
legislative report or testimony, although it was understood that, if 
the Board wished to volunteer any views, they would be brought before 
the Committee. 
The memorandum commented on differences between the present 
bill and the earlier one. In particular, it was noted that because it 
seemed likely that under the terms of the bill all Federal savings and 
loan associations would ultimately become Federal savings associations, 
the comment in the Board's report on H.R. 10745 to the effect that enact 
ment of such legislation would add another layer to the scheme of Federa 
bank supervision seemed inappropriate with respect to H.R. 13118. In 

3937 
10/12/67 
-3-
other respects, however, the Board's comments with respect to H.R. 10745 
appeared equally appropriate with respect to H.R. 13118. Specifically, 
enactment of H.R. 13118 would (1) furnish many existing mutual thrift 
institutions with an opportunity, by converting into Federal savings 
associations, to enlarge the scope of their competition with commercial 
banks without bearing, in a comparable manner, the burdens applicable 
to such banks insofar as reserve-type requirements and taxation were 
concerned; (2) perpetuate certain inequities among depositary-type 
institutions--particularly with respect to branching powers and invest-
ments in equity securities; (3) permit savings deposit contracts without 
reserving the right to require any prior notice of withdrawals; and (4) 
prohibit a Federal savings association from converting into a commercial 
bank for at least ten years. 
The memorandum concluded with the recommendation of the Board's 
Legal Division and of its Legislative Counsel against volunteering a 
report on H.R. 13118. The Board's views were on record, and there was 
no reason to believe that repeating them to the House Committee would 
have any added impact at this stage. On the question of taxation, it 
was believed that the Treasury Department was the appropriate agency to 
initiate any legislative proposal, and it was understood that the Depart-
ment was actively considering the matter. 
The members of the Board present expressed agreement with the 
staff recommendation. 

3938 
Uv- • 
i 
• I 
10/12/67 
-4-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Acting in the absence 
of Governor Robertson, Mr. Shepardson today 
approved on behalf of the Board the appoint-
ment of Elizabeth A. B. Riggs as Senior Pro-
grammer, Division of Data Processing, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $10,927, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Mm„ ; 
• ... 
. ^ 'f* . 
•.•;•;. "•L 
\ > ?• f»v 8 ! ; 
L Z I 
Secretar 

3939 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Item No. 1 
10/12/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
TRAVERSE CITY STATE BANK 
1 
approval of consolidation with 
1 
State Bank of Elk Rapids 
1 
- - 
1 
ORDER APPROVING CONSOLIDATION OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Traverse City State 
Bank, Traverse City, Michigan, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
Astern, for the Board's prior approval of the consolidation of that bank 
State Bank of Elk Rapids, Elk Rapids, Michigan, under the charter and 
^tle of Traverse City State Bank. As an incident to the consolidation, 
sole office of State Bank of Elk Rapids would become a branch of 
^averse City State Bank. Notice of the proposed consolidation, in form 
approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of the 
Actors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the Comptroller 
o f the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Attorney 
General on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger, 

3940 
- 2 -
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said consolidation shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 12th day of October, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, 
and Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin, and 
Governor Daane. 
(signed) 
Marri-;: Sherman 
(SEAL) 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
rt&E* > 

394 L 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
2 
10/12/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY TRAVERSE CITY STATE BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATION WITH 
STATE BANK OF ELK RAPIDS 
STATEMENT 
Traverse City State Bank, Traverse City, Michigan ("Traverse 
City Bank"), with total deposits of about $38 million, has applied, 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Boardfs 
prior approval of the consolidation of that bank with State Bank of 
Elk Rapids, Elk Rapids, Michigan ("Elk Rapids Bank"), which has total 
deposits of about $2.5 million, ~ 
The banks would consolidate under 
the charter and name of Traverse City Bank, which is a member of the 
Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the consolidation, the single 
office of Elk Rapids Bank would become a branch of Traverse City Bank, 
increasing the number of its offices to five* 
Competition. - Traverse City Bank operates its main office and 
one branch in Traverse City, one branch in Suttons Bay (13 miles north of 
Traverse City), and one branch in Kingsley (13 miles south of Traverse 
City), Traverse City (estimated population 19,200) is the seat of Grand 
Traverse County and is also the principal commercial center in the 
northwestern quadrant of the lower peninsula of Michigan. Its economy 
\J Figures are as of December 31> 1966. 

- 2 -
3942 
is supported by fruit farming, a substantial tourist trade, a large summer 
residential population, and a moderate amount of industrial activity. The 
sole office of Elk Rapids Bank is located in Elk Rapids, approximately 
17 miles northeast of Traverse City, Elk Rapids (estimated population 
1,000) is a rural shopping and trading center with some tourist trade. 
2/ 
Although the service areas- of Traverse City Bank and Elk 
Rapids Bank overlap slightly, there is no meaningful competition between 
them. Traverse City Bank derives some loans, and about 1 per cent of its 
deposits, from the Elk Rapids area. Traverse City Bank obtains business 
from the Elk Rapids area principally because it has the resources to 
accommodate borrowers who need larger amounts of credit than are available 
at Elk Rapids Bank, and to provide other services that are not offered by 
Elk Rapids Bank. Potential competition is limited by the distance sep-
arating the banks and by the fact that, under Michigan law, Traverse City 
Bank cannot establish a de novo branch in Elk Rapids, and, conversely, Elk 
Rapids Bank cannot establish a de novo branch in the communities in which 
Traverse City Bank has offices. 
Traverse City Bank is the largest bank in Traverse City and its 
chief competitors are the other two locally-headquartered banks. The 
resources to be gained by Traverse City Bank through the acquisition of 
Elk Rapids Bank would not materially affect banking competition in 
Traverse City. The nearest bank to Elk Rapids Bank is about seven miles 
2/ The service area is the area from which a bank obtains 75 per cent or 
more of its deposits of individuals, partnerships, and corporations. 

•7 c m rt 
- 3 -
to the east in the community of Alden. It does not appear that this bank, 
or any other banking office, would be adversely affected by the consolida-
tion. 
The effect of the consolidation on competition would not be 
significantly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The banking 
factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to consolidate are 
reasonably satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the resulting 
bank. The chief executive officer of Elk Rapids Bank, who is also the 
bank's controlling shareholder, has been incapacitated by illness. 
Although the bank is presently being operated in a competent manner, the 
consolidation would assure the continuance of capable management. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The effect of the 
consolidation on banking convenience and needs would be limited to the 
area served by Elk Rapids Bank. The replacement of Elk Rapids Bank by 
office of Traverse City Bank would provide for the Elk Rapids community 
°iore convenient access to broader credit accommodations and to a generally 
t*ider range of banking services. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
Proposed consolidation would benefit the banking convenience and needs of 
the Elk Rapids community, and would not have any significant adverse effect 
° n banking competition. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should be 
Mi 
Approved. 
October 12, 1967. 
