Minutes for January 6, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 

1 1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 6, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Sigel, Eckert, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and 
Kelty of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Katz, Reynolds, Wood, Baker, 
Gemmill, and Ruckdeschel, and Mrs. Junz of 
the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard reported on the Government 
securities market and prospective Treasury financing, following which 
there was some discussion of the merits of conducting open market opera-
tions currently in repurchase agreements as opposed to outright trans-
actions, and it was understood that the question might be raised by 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

42 
1/6/67 
-12-
those interested at next Tuesday's Open Market Committee meeting. Mr. 
Eckert reported on bank credit estimates for December and bank credit 
projections, Mr. Keir on capital market developments, and Mr. Baker on 
foreign exchange market developments. Copies of the several tables and 
charts distributed in connection with today's review have been placed 
in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Solomon, 
Sammons, and Gemmill then withdrew from the meeting, as did Mr. Broida 
and Miss Eaton, and the following entered: 
Messrs. Hackley, O'Connell, Forrestal, and Shuter, and 
Mrs. Heller of the Legal Division 
Mr. Smith of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Leavitt, Dahl, Lyon, and Pounds tone of the 
Division of Examinations 
Miss Garber of the Division of International Finance 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Boston and Minneapolis on January 3, by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta on January 4, and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco on January 5, 1967, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Assessment to cover Board expenses. In a distributed memorandum 
dated January 5, 1967, the Board's Controller recommended that an assess-
ment of .00498 of the total paid-in capital and surplus of the Federal 

43 
1/6/67 
-12-
Reserve Banks as of December 31, 1966, be levied upon the Banks to pro-
vide the approximate amount of cash needed for estimated expenditures 
of the Board for the first half of 1967. The assessment would produce 
$5,675,900. 
The levying of the proposed assessment was approved unanimously. 
Investment in foreign bank (Item No. 1). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated January 4, 
1967, recommending approval of an application from Citizens and Southern 
International Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia, to purchase 49 per cent of 
the shares of The Jamaica National Bank Limited, Kingston, Jamaica. 
The proposed letter to the applicant recognized that this invest-
ment, combined with other foreign loans and investments of the applicant 
and its parent bank, would exceed the guidelines established under the 
voluntary foreign credit restraint program, but indicated that the Board 
would expect every reasonable effort to be made to reduce foreign claims 
to an amount approaching the guideline ceiling as nearly as possible. 
The proposed investment would cause the ceiling to be exceeded by a 
substantial amount, and it was understood that the applicant organiza-
tion did not intend to liquidate any foreign claims outstanding if the 
investment was made. However, in correspondence with Governor Robertson, 
Citizens and Southern had stated in 1965 that it had made a firm commit-
ment to the Jamaicans to assist them in the organization of the bank. 
Citizens and Southern was informed at that time that the transaction 

4 4 
1/6/67 
-12-
clearly came under the heading of a bona fide commitment that should 
be honored. 
The memorandum also pointed out that the proposed letter would 
not contain an express condition that the Edge corporation would permit 
examiners selected or auditors approved by the Board to examine the 
Jamaican bank, reflecting a preference expressed by the Governor of the 
Central Bank of Jamaica on behalf of his Government that such a condi-
tion not be included. However, the absence of such condition in the 
letter would not waive the provision in section 211.9(g) of Regulation K 
(Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal 
Reserve Act). This section provides in part that "When required by the 
Board, a Corporation shall cause any organization controlled by it to 
submit to examination by examiners selected or auditors approved by the 
Board." 
In discussion, Governor Brimmer raised the question whether the 
language in the letter relating to the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
program should not express more firmly an expectation that foreign claims 
would be brought within the ceiling as soon as possible. 
Governor Robertson explained that that was not actually a reason-
able prospect. Citizens and Southern had begun under the program with a 
small base, and the proposed investment would carry them far beyond the 
ceiling. However, from discussion with Citizens and Southern over a 
period of time, he believed that reasonable cooperation with the voluntary 

1 5 
1/6/67 
-12-
program could be expected, even though they did not propose to liqui-
date foreign claims presently outstanding. 
Governor Brimmer inquired about the possibility of a precedent 
being established that would become known to the banking community with 
the consequence that other exceptions would be sought. 
Governor Robertson replied that at present only some 20 banks 
were over their ceilings. He thought that random inquiries from bankers 
were likely to reflect nothing more than attempts to ascertain what 
their competitors were doing under the program and whether the guide-
lines were being honored generally. In this case the exception would 
be attributable to a long-standing commitment to a foreign government, 
and he doubted that it would have much precedent significance. Mr. 
Sammons pointed out that if the exception were not made, Citizens and 
Southern might undertake off-shore borrowing through raising funds in 
the Euro-dollar market, and the situation did not seem to warrant such 
a procedure. 
Members of the Board then indicated that in all the circumstances 
they felt that the language of the proposed letter was appropriate. 
With respect to the proposal not to include the condition relat-
ing to right of examination in the letter to applicant, Mr. Forrestal 
raised the question whether, if such provision was omitted in this case, 
it should not also be excluded from all letters in the future. He 
pointed out that in view of the provision contained in section 211.9(g) 

1/6/67 
-6-
of Regulation K it did not seem to make much difference from a practical 
standpoint whether or not the condition was stated in letters approving 
investments by Edge corporations. 
The view was expressed by the Board that the question presented 
by Mr. Forrestal should be considered only after a memorandum on the 
subject was available, and it was understood that the staff would pre-
pare such a memorandum. 
As to the present case, members of the Board expressed the view 
that it was appropriate to accede to the request of the Governor of the 
Central Bank of Jamaica that the condition not be included in the letter. 
In view of the amicable relationships existing between the Federal 
Reserve and the Jamaican central bank, it appeared that there would be 
no difficulty in obtaining whatever information might reasonably be 
needed from time to time. 
The letter to Citizens and Southern International Corporation 
was then approved unanimously; a copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Messrs. Forrestal and Poundstone then withdrew from the meeting. 
Request for extension of time (Item No. 2). As stated in a 
distributed memorandum from the Legal Division dated January 4, 1967, 
First Florida Bancorporation, Haines City, Florida, had requested an 
extension of the time provided in the Board's order of October 19, 1966, 
for the acquisition of 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of 11 
banks in the State of Florida. It appeared that applicant was encountering 

47 
1/6/67 
-12-
delay in registering securities with the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission. 
Unanimous approval was given to the issuance of an order 
extending the time for acquisition of the shares until not later than 
March 19, 1967. A copy of the order as issued is attached as Item No. 2. 
Application of Central Wisconsin Bankshares (Items 3-4). A 
distributed memorandum from the Legal Division dated January 5, 1967, 
reported that the Wisconsin Commissioner of Banks had recommended 
denial of an application by Central Wisconsin Bankshares, Inc., Wausau, 
Wisconsin, for approval of the acquisition of shares of Mosinee Commer-
cial Bank, Mosinee, Wisconsin, thus making it necessary to conduct a 
hearing on the application pursuant to the requirements of the Bank 
Holding Company Act. 
The memorandum outlined the procedures according to which it 
was proposed that a hearing be held and submitted a draft of order for 
hearing along with a draft of letter to applicant. 
The issuance of the order and the sending of the letter were 
.approved unanimously. A copy of the order subsequently issued is 
attached as Item No. 3; and a copy of the letter sent is attached as 
Item No. 4. It was understood that Hearing Examiner David London would 
conduct the hearing. 
Form F.R. Y-6. At the Board meeting on January 3, 1967, the 
staff was requested to give further consideration to one item of a 

1 8 
1/6/67 
-12-
proposed revision of Form F.R. Y-6, Annual Report of Bank Holding Com-
panies, such item relating to the reporting of ownership of shares in 
financial institutions. 
A memorandum from Mr. Lyon and Mrs. Heller dated January 5 
reported that all letters received from Reserve Banks and from bank 
holding companies containing comments and suggestions in that connec-
tion had been reviewed. With respect to commercial banks, stock savings 
and loan associations, and corporations, it was felt that the percentage 
of stock ownership required to be reported could appropriately be fixed 
at 5 per cent or more. It appeared that such a requirement would elicit 
significant information without unduly burdening the company or persons 
involved. A recommended revised wording of the report item was included 
in the memorandum. 
Mr. Lyon observed that the revised requirement would appear to 
satisfy all parties heard from, except two who had objected to any 
reporting at all, in response to the originally published requirement. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he was satisfied with the 
revised reporting requirement. 
Subject to the change in question being made, the revised form 
F.R. Y-6 was adopted. 
Messrs. O'Connell, Smith, and Lyon, and Mrs. Heller then with-
drew from the meeting. 
Genesco matter. Governor Robertson referred to a request by 
the Securities and Exchange Commission for a Board opinion as to whether 

49 
1/6/67 
-12-
certain loans by two Nashville, Tennessee, banks to Mr. W. M. Jarman, 
trustee, to finance the purchase of stock for certain employee stock 
purchase plans of Genesco, Inc., also of Nashville, were subject to the 
Board's Regulation U (Loans by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or 
Carrying Registered Stocks) and, if so, whether the amount of the loans 
was in excess of the amount permitted under the regulation. A memoran-
dum from the Legal Division on the subject had been distributed under 
date of January 5, 1967. 
Governor Robertson stated that Mr. Jarman and the chief officer 
of one of the Nashville banks had secured an appointment with Chairman 
Martin for Wednesday, January 18. However, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission had requested the views of the Board promptly in order to 
enable its staff to evaluate several prospectuses pending before the 
Commission that Genesco reportedly was anxious to have cleared. The 
question was how best to proceed in the circumstances. 
After discussion, it was agreed that the Board would not send 
a reply to the Commission until after the January 18 conference, but 
that in the meantime the Board would consider the matter on the basis 
of the Legal Division's memorandum in order to be in a position to send 
a reply to the Commission without undue delay. 
Governor Robertson withdrew from the meeting at this point, as 
did Messrs. Holland, Leavitt, Shuter, and Solomon (Examinations). 
U.S. international statistics (Item No. 5). Attached as Item 
No. 5 is a copy of a memorandum from Mr. Solomon (International Finance) 

11 
1/6/67 
-12-
dated December 28, 1966, containing views of the Board's staff on a 
Treasury staff proposal to delay by a month, as compared with the 
present schedule, the publication of certain data on U.S. monetary 
reserve assets and on liquid liabilities to foreigners. 
Mr. Solomon explained that the staff was seeking guidance from 
the Board prior to further discussion of the matter with Treasury staff 
and that the Board was not being asked to take any formal position at 
this time. He then turned to Mr. Gemmill, who discussed the proposal 
and the adverse reaction of the Board's staff, as set forth in the 
December 28 memorandum. 
After Mr. Gemmill's presentation, Mr. Solomon reported that 
Vice President Coombs of the New York Reserve Bank concurred generally 
in the Treasury staff views and would like to see a longer lag in 
reporting than now existed when other countries drew on their swap 
lines with the Federal Reserve. It was Mr. Coombs' attitude that if 
the other countries did not want such information publicized, their 
wishes should be respected. It appeared that the British, in particular, 
had indicated some displeasure last summer and that certain other cen-
tral banks had expressed themselves to Mr. Coombs in similar vein. 
Mr. Solomon pointed out that what was involved was publication 
of total holdings of foreign currencies, not holdings of currencies of 
particular countries. He found it difficult to see the force of any 
complaints from central banks, other than in the case of the United 

1/6/67 
-11-
Kingdom, since in most instances the currency holdings would be quite 
small and would not show up clearly within a total published figure. 
Governor Daane expressed his understanding that the matter had 
been referred for the views of the Board's staff at a relatively low 
level within the Treasury and that the proposal had not yet been taken 
up at the policy level. He was personally aware of some unhappiness on 
the part of British officials concerning the relatively early release 
of data on swap drawings, and he knew that the views of Mr. Coombs on 
the matter were quite strong. He thought it appropriate for the Board's 
staff to make known its reservations to the Treasury staff and that the 
Board then consider the matter if the proposal was presented officially 
by the Treasury. 
There followed a general discussion of current procedures for 
the release of data of the type in question during which it was pointed 
out that there was not before the Board, at least at present, any pro-
posal for changes in Federal Reserve procedures, although that might 
seem to be implied by the views of Vice President Coombs. 
Several members of the Board expressed an initial reaction 
adverse to the Treasury staff proposal on the ground that it would run 
counter to the trend, advocated by the Board, of encouraging disclosure 
of information as promptly and as fully as possible consistent with 
reasonable safeguards. Governor Daane expressed a somewhat more sympa-
thetic attitude than other members of the Board toward the Treasury 

52 
1/6/67 
-12-
staff proposal in view of operational implications and considerations 
such as those mentioned by Mr. Coombs. He raised the question whether 
the subject should be taken up at a meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee; however, it was the consensus that nothing further was indi-
cated at this time than to authorize the Board's staff to communicate 
its reservations to the Treasury staff informally. 
Appointments 
Lula Bierly as Clerk, Division of International Finance, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $5,256, effective the date of entrance 
upon duty. 
Richard E. Jackson, Jr., as Messenger, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective 
January 9, 1967. 
Henry R. Lawson as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective January 9, 
Alvin Milton as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective January 9, 
1967. 
Eugene F. Revells, Jr., as Messenger, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective 
January 9, 1967. 
Salary increase 
Michael Vern Maxson, Assistant Federal Reserve Examiner, Division of 
Examinations, from $5,507 to $5,867 per annum, effective January 15, 1967. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
1967. 

B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/6/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 6, 1967. 
Citizens and Southern International Corporation, 
Marietta at Broad, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 12, 1966, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for Citizens and Southern Inter-
national Corporation ("CSIC") to purchase and hold approximately 
980,000 shares of the capital stock of The Jamaica National Bank 
Limited ("JNB"), Kingston, Jamaica, at a cost of approximately 
US$2,744,000, provided such stock is acquired within one year from 
the date of this 1 otter. In this connection, the Board also approves 
the purchase and holding of such shares in excess of 15 per cent of 
your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of JNB by CSIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That CSIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in JNB if JNB at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if JNB establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Jamaica or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to CSIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CSIC 
will cause JNB to furnish the Board of Governors with 
such reports as it may require from time to time; and, 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by JNB be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if JNB were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Citizens and Southern 
International Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice: 
(a) the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the second 
paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to 
restrictions on loans granted by JNB in Jamaica in 
the currency of that country and, 
(b) the provisions of Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K, 
to the extent that total liabilities of JNB to CSIC 
will exceed 50 per cent of CSIC*s capital and surplus. 
It is understood that the investment now being approved, 
combined with other foreign loans and investments of your Corporation 
and The Citizens and Southern National Bank, will, because of arrange 
ments described in Mr. Lane's letter of June 22, 1965, exceed the 
guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect. However, the Board expects that every rea-
sonable effort will be made to reduce your claims on foreigners to 
an amount approaching the guideline ceiling as nearly as possible 
and that due consideration will be given to the priorities contained 
in the guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

55 
Item No. 2 
1/6/67 
UNITED STATES GF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON> D, C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, 
1 
HAINES CITY, FLORIDA, 
1 
for approval of the acquisition of 
1 
voting shares of 11 banks in the 
1 
State of Florida. 
1 
ORDER EXTENDING PERIOD OF TIME PRESCRIBED 
BY PROVISO IN ORDER OF APPROVAL 
WHEREAS, by Order dated October 19, 1966, the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
°f 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1342(a), as amended by Public Law 89-485) and sec-
tion 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), approved 
application by First Florida Bancorporation, Haines City, Florida, 
for approval of action to become a bank holding company through the 
Acquisition of a sufficient number of voting shares of each of 11 banks 
the State of Florida so as to bring Bancorporation1 s direct ownership 
each bank up to at least 51 per cent; and said Order was made subject 
to the proviso "that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
• . . (b) later than three months after said date [of Order]"; and 

- 2 -
56 
WHEREAS, First Florida Bancorporation has applied to the Board 
for an extension of time within which the approved acquisition may be 
consummated, and it appearing to the Board that reasonable cause has 
been shown for the extension of time requested, and that such extension 
would not be inconsistent with the public interest, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the Board's Order of October 19, 
1966, as published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1966 
(31 Federal Register 13734), be and it hereby is amended so that the 
Proviso relating to the date by which the acquisition approved shall be 
consummated shall read "(b) later than March 19, 1967," 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 6th day of January, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary, 

Item No. 1 
1/6/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CENTRAL WISCONSIN BANKSHARES, INC., 
WAUSAU, WISCONSIN, 
Pursuant to Section 3 of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
DOCKET NO, BHC-81 
ORDER FOR HEARING 
On November 18, 1966, there was published in the Federal 
Register (31 Federal Register 14705) a notice of receipt by the Board 
°f Governors of an application, filed pursuant to section 3(a) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a), as amended by 
Public Law 89-485), by Central Wisconsin Bankshares, Inc., Wausau, 
Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant 
Would become a bank holding company through the acquisition of up to 
100 per cent of the voting shares of Mosinee Commercial Bank, Mosinee, 
Wisconsin. 
Pursuant to section 3(b) of the said Act, the Board is required 
to notify the appropriate Federal or State supervisory authority of the 
filing of the application; to allow 30 days for the submission of views 
and recommendation by such authority; and if, within such 30-day period, 

58 
-2-
the said authority disapproves the application in writing, to schedule 
a hearing on the application. 
Notice of receipt of the subject application was duly given to 
the Commissioner of Banks for the State of Wisconsin. Within 30 days of 
the Commissioner's receipt of such notice he submitted to the Board in 
writing a recommendation that the application be denied. Accordingly, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, pursuant to section 3(b) of the 
said Act, and section 222.4(f) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 
Part 222.4(f)), a public hearing with respect to this application be held 
commencing at 10 a.m. on February 7, 1967, at the Federal Reserve Bank or 
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, before a duly designated hearing examiner, 
such hearing to be conducted in accordance with the Board's Rules of 
Practice for Formal Hearings (12 CFR Part 263). 
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, that the following matters will be the 
subject of consideration at said hearing, without prejudice to the desig-
nation of additional related matters and questions upon further examination: 
(1) whether the proposed acquisition would result in 
a monopoly, or would be in furtherance of any combination 
or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any part of the United States; 
(2) whether the effect of the proposed acquisition in 
any section of the country may be substantially to lessen 
competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or in any other 
manner would be in restraint of trade; whether any anticompetitive 

59 
-3-
effects found with respect to the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served; 
(3) the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, that any person desiring to give testimony? 
Present evidence, or otherwise participate in these proceedings should 
file with the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20551, on or before January 25, 1967, a written request 
containing a statement of the nature of the petitioner's interest in the 
Proceedings, the extent of the participation desired, a summary of the 
matters concerning which petitioner wishes to give testimony or submit 
evidence, and the names and identity of witnesses who propose to appear. 
Requests will be presented to the designated hearing examiner for his 
determination and persons submitting them will be notified of his decision. 
Dated at Washington, D. C # > this 6th day of January, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

6 0 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
•FTHE 
1/6/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 6, 1967. 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Central Wisconsin Bankshares, Inc., 
502-504 Third Street, 
Wausau, Wisconsin. 54401 
Attention Mr. Thomas P. Hudson, President. 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to the application by Central Wisconsin 
Bankshares, Inc., for prior approval of the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
amended by Public Law 89-585, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of up to 100 per cent of the voting shares 
of Mosinee Commercial Bank, Mosinee, Wisconsin. Pursuant to the 
requirements of section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of 
Bankshares1 application was given to the Commissioner of Banks for 
the State of Wisconsin and his views and recommendation requested. 
Within 30 days of the Commissioner's receipt of this notice, he 
submitted to the Board a written recommendation of denial of the 
application. A copy of the Commissioner's recommendation is enclosed. 
In the foregoing circumstances, section 3(b) of the Act 
requires that Bankshares be given written notice by the Board of the 
Commissioner's adverse recommendation, and within three days follow-
ing such notice, that the Board notify Bankshares and Commissioner 
Nuesse of the date for commencement of a hearing by the Board on 
the application. Such hearing is required to be commenced "not less 
than 10 nor more than 30 days after the Board has given written 
notice to the Applicant of the action of the disapproving authority". 
This letter constitutes official notice of the action of 
the Commissioner of Banks in recommending denial of Bankshares' 
application to acquire shares of Mosinee Commercial Bank., You are 
further advised that, pursuant to requirement of the Act, the Board 
has ordered a public hearing on the application to be held commencing 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
6 1 
Central Wisconsin Bankshares, Inc. 
-2-
at 10 a.m. on February 7, 1967, at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago, 230 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois. As reflected 
in the attached copy of the Boardfs Order, the hearing will be con-
ducted by a hearing examiner selected by the Cxvil Service Commission 
for this purpose. 
As you were advised in the Board's letter of November 22, 
1966, a statement of views and comments in opposition to Bankshares' 
application has been filed by the law firm of Genrich, Terwilliger, 
Wakeen, Piehler & Conway, Wausau, Wisconsin, on behalf of four banks 
in Wisconsin identified in the subject statement. A copy of the 
Board's Order for Public Hearing on this application is being sent 
to the Genrich firm and to Commissioner of Banks Nuesse. Pursuant 
to the terms of the Board's Order, the Commissioner, the opposing 
banks represented by the Genrich firm, and any other interested per-
son will have an opportunity to request the hearing examiner's per-
mission to participate in the hearing on the application. The right 
and extent of participation by any requesting party is a matter for 
determination by the hearing examiner. 
The,Board has designated Mr. Thomas J. O'Connell to act 
as Board counsel in this hearing. It is understood that Mr. O'Connell 
will contact you or your counsel of record regarding certain aspects 
of the hearing, including court reporter services, preparation of 
exhibits, and the general nature of evidence to be introduced by 
Board counsel. Should Bankshares wish to be represented by counsel, 
it is suggested that advice of that fact and identification of 
counsel be transmitted to the Board in writing at.an early date. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
OP THC 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Correspondence 
Board of Govetnors 
Item No. 1 
1/6/67 
Date December 28, 1966 
Subject; 
A Problem regarding 
.Robert Solpmon 
CONFIDENTIAL (EQ 
Publication of U. S. 
International Statistics. 
In connection with the introduction of a new and improved 
format of presentation, the Treasury is proposing to delay, by a month, 
as compared with the present schedule, the publication of certain data 
on U. S. monetary reserve assets and on liquid liabilities to foreigners. 
Because the proposal will necessarily involve changes in presentation 
of the statistics in the Federal Reserve Bulletin, and because the ad-
ditional lag can be justified only on the ground of an alleged need for 
concealment, the Board may wish to consider the issues raised by the 
proposal 
The Treasury proposes the following: 
(1) Total U. S. holdings of convertible foreign currencies 
would be published with a lag of two months instead of one month • 
as at present. This proposed change would mean that publication 
of total U. S. monetary reserve assets would also be delayed for 
one month, compared with the present schedule. 
(2) A new summary table of liquid liabilities to foreigners 
would present data with a lag of three months. However, essen-
tially all the information summarized in this table would still 
be published in various other tables with a lag of only two 
months (which is the shortest time practicable). 
The rationale for these proposals is that on some occasions 
the information which would be published under present schedules might 
prove embarrassing to the United States 6r the United Kingdom. How-
ever, the proposals, if adopted, would constitute a retreat from the 
general principles of (1) publishing over-all balance of payments 
data as soon as they become available, and of (2) deliberately lagging 
publication only in the case of information on specific transactions 
(E.G., gold purchases or sales by individual foreign countries or 
detailed information on System and Treasury foreign exchange operations). 
In a period in which the United States continues to run large 
underlying payments deficits, and in which U. S. officials must, as a 
matter of prudence, be prepared to meet a run on the dollar, should 
one occur, can we afford to change our practice on publication of data 
in a way that can only be justified by reference to a need for conceal-
ment? 
In the absence of a published figure, is it not at least as 
likely that the exchange market will overestimate as underestimate the 
extent of a possible adverse change in a statistical series? 

Board of Governors 
-2-
Ttlese questions have been framed lit pointed fashion in ord^r 
to emphasize the general issue. While recognizing that there have al-
ways been risks involved in committing ourselves to publication of data 
as they become available, the staff of the Division of International 
Finance regard these risks as less than those of altering the present 
publication schedule in the direction of delay. 
It is recommended therefore: 
(1) That the Treasury be informed that the System will 
continue to publish its foreign currency holdings as soon as 
practicable, and that the Treasury be urged to continue its 
present practice, in publishing total U. S. holdings; and 
(2) That the Treasury be urged to publish the summary 
table on the schedule already in effect for publishing the 
component details, and that the Federal Reserve not publish 
the new summary table if the Treasury insists on an addi-
tional one-month lag for that table. 
Specific comments on the two Treasury proposals, and samples 
of the relevant tables, are presented below. 
Holdings of Foreign Currencies: The immediate reason for 
the proposal to delay publication of U. S. holdings of foreign cur-
rencies was the concern expressed by British authorities last August 
when publication of the large increase in U. S. holdings of foreign 
currencies might have been interpreted by the press and the foreign 
exchange market as an indication of the amount of U. S. support for 
sterling (an essentially correct interpretation in the case of the in-
creases in U. S. holdings that occurred in July and August). As it 
turned out, publication of the figures in August and September ap-
peared to cause little comment or exchange-market reaction. This mild 
reaction to publication of U. S. holdings during the most severe sterling 
crisis in more than a decade seems to constitute sufficient grounds for 
not changing current publication practices. 
There is no question but that publication of U. S. holdings 
of foreign currencies may at times give an indication of the general 
order of magnitude of U. S. assistance to the United Kingdom. (The 
implications for other countries are substantially less because the 
size of U. S. assistance to these countries at any one time is likely 
to be relatively small). British figures on U. K. sterling liabilities 
are published quarterly, with a lag of more than two months; thus, 
figures for the third quarter are published by the Bank of England a 
little before the middle of December, Under the present U. S. publi-
cation schedule, U. S. holdings of convertible currencies (in the 
aggregate) are published well in advance of the British figures. 

64 
Board of Governors 
-4-
Information oil changes in U. S. holdings in both July and August is 
available by the end of September--more than two months before any 
British figures are released--and by the end of October the market has 
the full quarterly data. But even under the Treasury proposal, the 
market would have two months' data (i.e., July and August) by the end 
of October. It is doubtful that the additional benefits to the United 
Kingdom to be had by delaying publication of U. S. holdings of con-
vertible currencies by one more month would be substantial. 
Against any benefit that might accrue to the United Kingdom, 
we need to weigh the specific disadvantages for the United States. 
Such a change in publication schedule would mean that the United States 
would be the only developed country, apart from Portugal, that did not 
publish its reserves as of the end of, say, October in time to be in-
cluded in the issue of International Financial Statistics (published 
by the International Monetary Fund) that appears in early December; 
moreover, the United States would lag behind more than half of the less 
developed countries in release of its reserve figures. 
Delay in publication of total U. S. holdings of convertible 
currencies would be anomalous, but it would not be unprecedented. From 
July 1961 through August 1962, total U. S. holdings of foreign curren-
cies were published with a two-month lag. 
Initially, these were all 
Treasury holdings. However, once the Federal Reserve began holding 
foreign currencies, the total amount of System holdings were published 
in the condition statement one month in advance of the publication of 
total U. S. holdings. During the six months from March 1962 through 
August 1962, the table of U. S. monetary reserves in the Federal Re-
s e r v e Bulletin carried a footnote indicating that System holdings of 
foreign currencies for the month just past could be found in the con-
dition statement. 
The Treasury found this publication practice unsatisfactory, 
doubtless for reasons similar to those outlined above, and beginning 
in September 1962 it has followed the practice of publishing total 
U. S. holdings of convertible currencies in any given month at the 
time that the System's holdings are published — that is at the end of 
the following month. 
Table 1, attached, illustrates the pending Treasury proposal 
for publication of U. S. monetary reserve assets as they would appear 
in the October Bulletin, released at the end of the month. 
Liquid Liabilities. In the case of the proposed summary 
table for liquid liabilities, the rationale for concealment is even 
less persuasive and the likelihood of successful concealment appears 
slight. Publication of the convenient summary table could well lead 
to greater interest among the financial press in following the U. S. 

65 
Board of Governors 
-4-
payments balance month-by-month. But lagging publication of figures in 
the summary table one month behind other published figures, far from 
diminishing interest in the monthly results, is likely to lead financial 
writers to request help in putting the summary table together for them-
selves from the published components. Thus, attention may be drawn to 
the fact that the summary table is not kept up to date, and inquiries 
as to the reason for this omission are likely to be made. The alleged 
need for concealment would be particularly difficult to reconcile with 
the fact that in the months in which the quarterly Department of Com-
merce press release on the balance of payments is issued, information 
on changes in liabilities to foreigners is made available a week or two 
ahead of the present publication schedule (and six weeks ahead of the 
schedule proposed by the Treasury). Undue excitement in the financial 
press over a single month's figure can most suitably be avoided by a 
process of educating the writers as to the wide month-to-month variation 
in the payments figure. 
The publication of statistics on U. S. liquid liabilities 
in the Federal Reserve Bulletin has regularly followed the format of 
presentation in the Treasury Bulletin, except for certain minor diff-
erences in detail. Publication of the new summary table (illustrated 
in Table 2, attached, as it would be published at the end of October), 
would be a major step toward a more clear and concise statistical pre-
sentation of this segment of our international capital transactions. 
However, the staff of the International Division would recommend that 
the summary table not be published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin, 
if the figures are to be published only with an additional month's lag, 
as proposed by the Treasury. Omission of publication would, the staff 
feels, relieve both the staff and Board members of the onus of explain-
ing a publication schedule that can be justified only by a desire for 
concealment. 
/ 
