Minutes for 
January 21, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
— 
4. 
u> 

1 9 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 21, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
•H-hi 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Messrs. Shay and Sanders, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Egertson and Lyon, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Duerson and Messrs. Doyle, Heyde, and Mertz 
of the Legal Division 
Mr. Ducy of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Olin, and Schober of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 

! 
1/21/69 
-11-
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Peoples National Bank of Long Island, Patchogue, New 
York, with Peoples Bank of Long Island, National Association, also of 
Patchogue, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
The conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed merger, in 
itself, would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Reports on the following proposed mergers also were approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller, the conclusion in each 
case stating that consummation of the proposed merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects: 
Bay National Bank, Baltimore, Maryland, and Maryland 
National Bank, also of Baltimore; 
The First National Bank of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia, 
with Atlanta National Bank, also of Atlanta; 
American National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 
and American National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, 
also of Chicago. 
Application of Eastern Financial Associates (Items 1 and 2). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on December 31, 1968, of the application of 
Eastern Trust Financial Associates, Bangor, Maine, to become a bank 
holding company through acquiring all of the voting shares of Eastern 
Trust and Banking Company, also of Bangor, and its three majority-
owned subsidiary banks (Lincoln Trust Company, Lincoln, Maine; 

1/21/69 
-3-
Millinocket Trust Company, Millinocket, Maine; and Guilford Trust 
Company, Guilford, Maine). 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are 
attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Application of Northland Bancshares (Items 3 and 4). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on January 6, 1969, of the application of Northland 
Bancshares, Inc., Bridgeton, Missouri, to become a bank holding com-
pany through acquiring 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Mark Twain State Bank, also of Bridgeton, and South County Bank, St. 
Louis County, Missouri. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are 
attached as Items 3 and 4. 
Truth in lending. There had been preliminary discussion 
Previously of the possibility of engaging a public relations firm to 
develop educational and informational materials on truth in lending. 
Of the several programs or proposals that had been submitted, the 
Proposal of Ruder & Finn of Washington, D. C., Inc., appeared to Mr. 
Olin to be best adapted to the particular needs. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated January 7, 
1969, in which Mr. Olin discussed distribution of the truth in lending 

1/21/69 
-11-
regulation and related materials, and a memorandum from Mr. Solomon 
dated January 8 containing specific proposals for the engagement of 
Ruder & Finn, production of customized information kits, and the 
development of a film strip, regional and industry seminars, and mass 
media material to publicize the effective date of the regulation. 
At the beginning of today's discussion Mr. Olin showed slides 
illustrating the need for education of retailers, problems of dif-
ferent kinds of lenders, the number of units in various categories of 
lenders, and various other facets of the task of disseminating infor-
mation. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that it was necessary 
to make a decision regarding the general approach to be taken. 
If 
uniformity was to be achieved, with nine enforcement agencies, it 
seemed to him that it would be necessary not only to work closely 
with organizations such as trade associations and better business 
bureaus but to have the assistance of an organization that had experi-
ence in preparing information for the public. As he saw it, the 
largest part of the task was to be faced in the next several months. 
Another approach might be to bring individuals with special skills 
into the Board's organization. 
Mr. Molony then described explorations that suggested the 
feasib ility of recruiting staff to prepare an information program 
directed primarily toward creditors. He thought the task was not one 

1 9 8 
1/21/69 
-5-
that would stop on July 1, but that problems would continue. He 
mentioned a number of individuals who might be considered, including 
one in particular who might be brought in and asked to recruit a group 
of associates. Mr. Molony referred to the recommendation that pamphlets 
be prepared by an outside firm for use by various groups of creditors. 
He suggested that if the Board wanted to go in that direction, it 
reserve the right to decide policy questions and matters of taste. 
Governor Robertson said he thought that the need was to obtain, 
in some way, the help of people with expertise, and have them tailor 
basic information to meet the needs of various groups. He noted that 
the public relations firm under consideration, Ruder & Finn, had agreed 
that its name would not appear on any of the informational materials. 
Governor Robertson was in favor of engaging the firm, subject 
to stipulation that it would have no direct dealings with outsiders 
unless specifically authorized. If the Board preferred to bring 
experts into its own organization, however, it would be necessary to 
start immediately. The persons selected would need some time to sever 
their present affiliations, and they would need time to begin working 
together as a group. 
Governor Sherrill spoke in favor of engaging the public rela-
tions firm for writing pamphlets and the like. If the task of public 
education extended beyond that, he would favor having experts on the 
Board's staff. 

1 9 9 
1/21/69 
-19-
Chairman Martin inquired whether the task should not be expected 
to be a continuing one, and Governor Robertson replied that in his 
opinion the continuing task would not be of the same order of magnitude. 
The immediate problem related to the creditors, who must comply with 
the law and regulation beginning July 1. Thereafter the consumers, 
who might well be the most potent enforcers of the legislation, would 
come into the picture. After July 1 complaints should be directed to 
the respective enforcement agencies; if they had basic questions, they 
would address them to the Federal Reserve. Only one or two people 
would be needed on the Board's staff to handle such questions, as he 
saw it. The Board's work should be restricted as far as possible to 
writing the regulation, amending it, and interpreting it as need arose. 
It was expected that the Federal Reserve Banks would perform an impor-
tant role. Each Reserve Bank had personnel assigned to handle truth 
in lending matters, and they were to attend a meeting at the Board's 
offices in about two weeks for briefing. It was hoped to educate them, 
a s well as the assigned people in the other enforcement agencies, so 
that after July 1 they could take care of most problems. The Board 
now had a top-notch staff assigned to truth in lending, and although it 
might need to be augmented he did not believe a large staff would be 
necessary. However, the present staff could not perform the function 
the public relations firm might perform in addition to its other work. 
Governor Daane asked whether, if the Board took the minimum 
aPproach, it would satisfy its responsibilities under the statute. 
He 

200 
1/21/69 
-7-
agreed that it might be necessary to engage outside professional 
talent to write educational material, but he was biased against going 
further than necessary to fulfill the Congressional intent. 
Mr. Cardon commented that in the legislative history one could 
find a complete range of views. In the early days sponsors of such 
legislation had taken the attitude that it would not require a large 
Government program and that consumers themselves, if given basic infor-
mation, could be expected to enforce their rights through the courts. 
As the legislation moved along through various stages there began to be 
more talk about the task of educating the public. By the time the 
Senate passed an earlier and simpler measure and the more ambitious 
Program had been initiated in the House, there was a stronger view 
that whoever was in charge of the program should undertake that task. 
Nevertheless, he was not aware of any clear mandate to the Board to 
conduct a program of education. 
Governor Maisel asked whether criticism was not likely if the 
Board issued a regulation that was not understood. It was frustrating 
for a citizen subject to a Government regulation to be unable to under-
stand what he was supposed to do or obtain explanations. 
Therefore, 
he would engage professionals to develop informational literature and 
select a mailing list. He believed it would be proper to hire the 
Public relations firm to determine what information was needed, and 
who needed it, although the information should emanate from the Board 
rather than the outside firm. 

1/21/69 
-11-
Governor Brimmer said he thought the Board must face up to the 
problem and not think in terms of what was the least that could be done 
to comply with the statute. Borrowers and consumers were likely to 
direct their complaints to the Federal Reserve Banks; the press would 
certainly suggest to the public that truth in lending was a Federal 
Reserve responsibility. 
The Federal Reserve Banks should not lack 
whatever resources they might need to meet the requests of lenders, 
retailers, and consumers. He believed that the demand would be heavy. 
For the period between now and July, Governor Brimmer continued, 
he thought the Board should hire outside technical talent. 
Moreover, 
he believed that the Board should look down the road to having a larger 
staff of its own in the truth in lending function than Governor 
Robertson appeared to contemplate; it would seem desirable if the 
individual Mr. Molony had especially mentioned could be brought in to 
recruit a group of associates. 
Perhaps efforts should also be made to 
c°ntract with academicians and others whose positions were such that 
they could help to carry this load. In summary, he thought the Board 
should accept the burden and make the investment in resources to carry 
to do otherwise would put the Board in a bad light. 
Governor Daane remarked that he had not meant to imply that 
the Board should evade its responsibilities, but only to raise a ques-
tion as to what was necessary to fulfill them. He was still not 
certain that it was necessary to go as far as some of the recommendations 

10 
1/21/69 
-19-
would involve. He was concerned that the Board might find itself in 
a position where the truth in lending task overshadowed its primary 
responsibilities. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he believed the main point 
°f contact with the public should be the Reserve Bank, and he hoped 
that the field offices of the other enforcing agencies also would be 
active, but guidance would be needed. 
Governor Sherrill said he thought it was important to look 
carefully at the basic problems, because they were similar to others 
that might well be encountered in the future. He believed it was 
important that the Federal Reserve not become a consumer protection 
agency, and there was that risk. He believed that the Board should 
n°t expand the scope of its responsibilities unduly. The Board would 
have a continuing responsibility to write, rewrite, and interpret, 
and would need staff for that purpose. There was also a present need 
to make the regulation understandable to creditors, and for that 
Purpose he believed expert outside help was necessary because it was 
n°t possible to assemble a suitable staff quickly enough. 
However, 
he doubted whether the Board should make a strong effort to reach 
consumers. 
Governor Daane supported Governor Sherrill's views. 
After further discussion it was agreed to engage Ruder & Finn, 
initially for six months, at an estimated professional fee of $30,000, 

zm 
1/21/69 
-10-
to work with the staff in developing materials for an education and 
information effort directed primarily at creditors. This action 
included approval of the resulting overexpenditure in the pertinent 
account of the 1969 budget. It was also understood that the possi-
bility of adding one or two persons to the Board's staff would con-
tinue to be explored. 
Secretary's Note: 
Pursuant to this action a 
letter was sent to Ruder & Finn in the form 
attached to the minutes for January 24, 1969. 
Topics for Advisory Council meeting (Item No. 5). There had 
been distributed a list of topics suggested for discussion at the 
meeting of the Federal Advisory Council on February 17-18, 1969. 
Governor Brimmer said he would like to send to the members of 
the Council for comment the questions on which he had been requesting 
comments from banks that reported under the foreign credit restraint 
Program. There was agreement with this suggestion. 
Governor Brimmer also recalled that at the December 1968 
meeting of the Conference of Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks 
there had been discussion of the possibility of sending directors the 
Questions addressed to the Council. He inquired about the status of 
that proposal. 
Chairman Martin suggested that the questions be sent to the 
Reserve Bank Chairmen after each Council meeting, along with the 
Council's answers. In that way there would be no problem of other 
attitud es influencing the views of the Council. 

1/21/69 
-11-
Governor Robertson expressed the view that it should be 
remembered that the Council was a statutory body set up for an advisory 
function. If the questions to be addressed to it were also furnished 
to others, the advisory link between the Council and the Board might 
he jeopardized. That problem would be avoided if the questions were 
not sent to the Reserve Bank Chairmen until after each Council meeting. 
There was unanimous agreement with a suggestion by Chairman 
Martin that the question of sending such material to the Reserve Bank 
directors should be brought up at the forthcoming meeting of the 
Council. 
After further discussion during which there was agreement with 
suggestions for addition of one topic and expansion of another, the 
list of topics for the forthcoming Council meeting was approved unani-
mously. A copy of the letter sent to the Secretary of the Council 
Pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 5. 
One-bank holding companies. 
Pursuant to the discussion at the 
meeting on January 8, 1969, there had been distributed memoranda dated 
January 17 from the Office of the Secretary and the Legal Division 
submitting a set of legislative proposals designed for the following 
Purposes : 
(1) 
to amend the Bank Holding Company Act to bring one-bank 
holding companies within its scope, along the lines of the "compromise" 
staff recommendation, except that no provision was included under which 
a holding company owned by six or less shareholders would be exempt; 

1/21/69 
-11-
(2) 
to amend section 4(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act to 
provide a "grandfather clause" exempting a one-bank holding company in 
existence on July 1, 1968, from the Act as long as its nonbank activi-
ties remained of the same kind as they were on that date and it acquired 
n ° other company; 
(3) 
to amend section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
to authorize bank holding companies to acquire specified types of com-
panies but reserving in the Board the right to prevent any such acqui-
sition if the Board determined that it would have anticompetitive 
effects; 
(4) to amend section 5136 of the Revised Statutes to authorize 
national banks (and State member banks, insofar as Federal law is con-
cerned) to invest in community development corporations; and 
(5) 
to amend section 5136 of the Revised Statutes to authorize 
National banks (and State member banks, insofar as Federal law is con-
cerned) to invest in (a) wholly-owned operations subsidiaries and 
other specified types of subsidiaries and (b) wholly- or partially-
owned community development corporations. 
In the interest of expediting consideration of the subject, 
Legal Division's comments in the memorandum were limited to the 
draft reflecting the staff recommendation and the desirability of a 
Srandfather clause if a legislative proposal along the lines of the 
staff recommendation was adopted. 

2 0 6 
1/21/69 
-19-
The memorandum from the Office of the Secretary stated that 
the staff was also preparing guidelines relating to holding company 
acquisitions of bank-related affiliates and a statement to the Con-
gress to accompany the Board's proposed legislation. 
Mr. Holland commented that the January 8 discussion had indi-
cated that three tasks were necessary to the next stage of considera-
tion of the one-bank holding company question, namely, the development 
°f draft legislation (which was now available), a statement to Congress, 
ar*d guidelines. 
In approaching the latter two of these assignments, 
the staff had encountered difficulties that would be described in a 
forthcoming memorandum. Rather than await their resolution, however, 
the legislative draft was now submitted. 
After introductory remarks by Mr. Sanders, Chairman Martin 
requested comments by Mr. Cardon, who said he was troubled by what 
he conceived to be a lack of persuasive reasons for submitting this 
legislation. As he tried to sift through the material he had looked 
f°r supporting argument, but except for one possibility he could not 
S e e that there was one. There might be several reasons that could be 
cited for making the Bank Holding Company Act applicable to one-bank 
^°lding companies. Only one of those reasons made sense to him, and 
that was to protect against concentration of economic power. 
In the draft legislative proposal now before the Board, Mr. 
cardon continued, the amendment to section 4(c)(8) set forth a number 

4 
1/21/69 
-14-
of things that a bank holding company was to be allowed to do, and 
then provided a blanket authority for the Board to add other things 
to the list — activities considered of such a nature as to make it 
unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4 to apply in order to 
carry out the purpose of the Holding Company Act. He believed it 
was necessary either to eliminate this basket clause or to say more 
precisely what reasons the Board would have in mind for approving 
some kinds of activities and disapproving others. If the Board's 
basic reason for proposing the legislation was to protect against 
concentration of economic power, he suggested that that reason be 
specified. 
Mr. Cardon said he hoped also that when the Board presented 
to the Congress its case for recommending this bill it would make no 
mention of the argument about danger to the bank concerned, because 
he could not see that that argument would hold water. If that argument 
was to be used, examples should be cited in support of it; and as far 
as he knew there were no such examples. 
Another possible reason to make the Act applicable to one-bank 
holding companies was to protect against unfair trade practices, but 
Mr. Cardon thought that argument also was invalid. That left, to him, 
only the argument of preventing undue concentration of economic power. 
Governor Daane said that as a compromise he would go along with 
the draft the staff had submitted. His concern, which be believed 

1/21/69 
-11-
Governor Mitchell had shared, was that there was no evidence of abuse 
to justify requiring that only bank-related activities could be 
allowed. His disposition at this juncture, though, was to go along 
with the staff and with the flexibility written into the draft legis-
lation. 
Chairman Martin observed that in his view the principal 
purpose, as Mr. Cardon had pointed out, should be avoidance of undue 
concentration of economic power and the abuses that could accompany 
it. Governor Daane agreed. However, he said, when it came to the 
delineation of permissible activities there was uncertainty as to 
whether certain activities would be subject to abuse and others would 
not. Lacking such assurance, he was inclined to accept the approach 
of the staff, which provided flexibility to countenance some activities 
that on the surface might seem to involve potential abuse but in prac-
tice might not. 
Governor Maisel remarked that he also had been concerned about 
the rationale for recommending legislation. However, unlike Mr. 
Cardon, he believed that the argument of banking soundness was not 
wholly without support. He could name a number of unfortunate situa-
tions banks had gotten into that might have been precluded by legis-
lative safeguards. He would also stress the fact that, since Congress 
had been concerned for many years with how banks operated, it was not 
reasonable to expect that Congress would not be concerned about the 

17 
1/21/69 
-19-
present situation in which banks were seeking to change their methods 
of operation significantly. He believed it would be desirable to have 
guidelines for activities that might be considered permissible, and 
also that a dollar size limit be specified to exempt small holding 
companies from the purview of the Act. 
Governor Maisel then addressed himself to several particular 
sections of the draft legislation, on which he offered suggestions. 
In particular, he was concerned with the provision that, within the 
scope of the acquisitions permissible under the categories to be 
listed in the law and regulations to be issued by the Board, "such 
shares may be acquired by the bank holding company 30 days after the 
company files with the Board a notice describing the proposed acquisi-
tion unless during that time the Board issues an order directing that 
such acquisition shall not be consummated because in its judgment, and 
pursuant to guidelines to be promulgated by the Board, the acquisition 
will substantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly...". 
The Board should recognize that the present form of the Clayton Act 
caused major enforcement problems because the Department of Justice 
had to institute litigation after the fact, with consequent difficul-
ties of dives tment if the transaction was held to be illegal. 
It 
seemed to him that, since the proposed legislation would give a 
regulated industry new privileges, the machinery should be patterned 
after the review provisions of the Bank Merger Act and the Bank Holding 

1/21/69 
-11-
Company Act, in which the Department of Justice was given the right to 
seek an injunction within 30 days. A bank holding company should not 
have automatic permission to go into a certain activity; it should be 
required to show that its proposal was in the public interest. 
Governor Sherrill commented that such provisions would be 
difficult for the banking industry to accept. As in the case of the 
Bank Merger Act, the opportunities to block plans would largely cancel 
out supposed privileges under the law. Banks were sensitive to such 
provisions, and a major reaction would be heard from them. 
Therefore, 
the Board should consider the matter carefully before it advocated 
such provisions, because they would reduce the chances of getting 
banker support. 
Governor Brimmer said he thought it had been generally agreed 
b y the Board to spell out in the proposed legislation the areas in 
which banks would be allowed to expand on a general consent basis, 
under guidelines contained in regulations. He believed, however, that 
a general consent based on size ran a risk and that the objective 
should be accomplished through regulation. 
Governor Maisel said that if he were a banker he would prefer 
to have permissible activities spelled out in the law. And he believed 
careful thought should be given to providing in the law for appeal by 
the Department of Justice. 
The critical question was what should be 
in the law and how far it was possible to go in regulations. 
Banks, 

211 
1/21/69 
-18-
he thought, would demand to know what would be in the Board's regula-
tions before they would support proposed legislation. 
Mr. Holland observed that in deciding what it wanted to do in 
the way of proposing legislation the Board must keep several constit-
uencies in mind--the Congress, the banking community, and the public. 
He hoped an avenue could be found for touching on the issues that were 
important to each of them. Banking soundness was important, and he 
would be inclined to argue for including some reference to it. 
Mr. Cardon reiterated the opinion that protecting the sound-
ness of banks should not be used as an argument for this particular 
legislation. A size cutoff, he noted, would exempt the great bulk of 
small banks, where soundness was most in question. If soundness was 
really the underlying principle, a completely different kind of bill 
should be written, such as a tightening of section 23A of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Governor Sherrill said he thought there was in fact a risk to 
a bank in affiliating with activities that were larger than the bank 
itself. It seemed to him the Board was trying to establish that a 
bank should be able to grow within the banking structure, as defined, 
but that commerce should not be allowed to grow by using a bank. The 
effort was not necessarily to stop bigness in banks, but bigness in 
total structure. 
Governor Robertson said he regarded the effort as one of amend-
ing a statue designed to cover bank holding companies so as to include 

212 
1/21/69 
-19-
one-bank holding companies, and of broadening somewhat the activities 
permissible for holding companies that control two or more banks. 
He 
believed the staff had submitted an appropriate legislative draft. 
After comments on particular provisions of the draft, he remarked that 
the original Bank Holding Company Act was designed to keep banks in the 
banking business because they were using other people's money, and to 
avoid conflicts of interest. The draft amendments would close an 
existing loophole, broaden somewhat the types of permissible activities, 
and permit later decisions, in the light of developments, that others 
would be appropriate. He believed that to amend a statute to close a 
loophole that had not been used significantly until recently was dif-
ferent from writing a whole new statute. The basic problems related 
to the large one-bank holding companies; the little ones should not 
cause appreciable trouble. 
During further discussion relating to particular points in the 
draft legislative proposals, Governor Daane remarked that he questioned 
the inclusion of a grandfather clause, whereas Governor Maisel said 
that he thought the grandfather clause was a major point and he did not 
go along with the view that it would be intolerable administratively. 
Governor Sherrill suggested that a grandfather clause be put in readi-
ness, whether or not it was used. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the staff was requested to 
reconsider the draft legislative proposals in light of the comments 
that had been made. 

1/21/69 
-20-
Special functions. The Board unanimously approved paying the 
expense of (1) a dinner in the Board's dining rooms on February 17, 
1969, for the Federal Advisory Council, and (2) a tea in the Board's 
building late in February for a group composed of wives of officials 
of the independent agencies of the Government. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

214 
Item No. 1 
1/21/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
EASTERN TRUST FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES, 
Bangor, Maine, 
f°r approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares of 
Eastern Trust and Banking Company, Bangor, 
Maine, and of its three majority owned 
subsidiary banks, all located in Maine. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Eastern Trust 
Financial Associates, Bangor, Maine, for the Board's prior approval 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares of Eastern Trust 
and Banking Company, Bangor, Maine ("Eastern Trust"), a registered bank 
holding company, and of Eastern Trust's three majority owned subsidiary 

215 
-4-
banks: Lincoln Trust Company, Lincoln; Millinoclcet Trust Company, 
Millinocket; and Guilford Trust Company, Guilford, all located in Maine. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Deputy Bank Commissioner for the State of Maine of the application and 
requested his views and recommendation. He recommended approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 15, 1968 (33 Federal Register 16692), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to 
the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
fche thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall be 
extended by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
Dated at Uashincton, D . C., this 21st day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
(SEAL) 
Assistant Secretary. 

2X6 
Item No. 2 
1/21/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
EASTERN TRUST FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES, BANGOR, MAINE, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Eastern Trust Financial Associates, Bangor, Maine 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
°f 100 per cent of the voting shares of Eastern Trust and Banking 
Company, Bangor, Maine ("Eastern Trust"), a registered bank holding 
company, and of its three majority owned subsidiary banks: 
Lincoln 
Trust Company, Lincoln; Millinocket Trust Company, Millinocket; and 
Guilford Trust Company, Guilford, all locntod in Maine. As of June 29, 
1/ 
1 9 6 8 , 
Eastern Trust and its affiliated banks had total deposits of 
$51,278,000 and operated 14 offices in central and northeastern Maine. 
terms of total deposits held, Eastern Trust is the smallest of 
2/ 
three bank holding companies located in the State. 
y All banking data are as of this date, unless otherwise noted. 
y Among the three bank holding companies is included Merrill Bankshares 
Company, Bangor, Maine, the formation of which was approved by the Board 
November 25, 1968. 

217 
-4-
Applicant's proposal represents the initial step in a 
long-range plan of reorganization looking to removal of Eastern 
Trust as a registered bank holding company and to facilitating Appli* 
cant's later expansion as a bank holding company through acquisition 
°f additional banks. Consummation of this proposal will result in 
Applicant's indirect ownership and control of more than 25 per cent of 
the voting shares of the three banks now controlled directly by Eastern 
Trust. At a future date, Applicant proposes to acquire direct ownership 
the three banks now owned by Eastern Trust, in which event Eastern 
Trust would no longer be a registered bank holding company. Consummation 
of Applicant's present proposal will not affect Eastern Trust's status 
a s a bank holding company. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
r equired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Deputy Bank 
C o m m i s s i o n e r of the State of Maine. He recommended approval of. the 
aPplication. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
fchat the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
°f the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition 
effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
t o lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 

218 
-4-
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds 
that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the trans-
action in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
In each case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant's 
Proposal will have no measurable effect on banking competition with re-
spect either to Applicant's proposed subsidiaries, or other institutions 
with which they compete. As indicated, Eastern Trust is third in size 
o f three holding companies located in Maine, the larger two of which control, 
r espectively, 16 per cent and 8 per cent of the total deposits held by all 
insured commercial banks in the State. Eastern Trust controls, as would 
Applicant, nearly $50 million in total deposits, or 5 per cent of the total 
d ePosits in the State. Consummation of the proposal will not change 
Eastern Trust's size or extent of operations. 
The sole consideration relevant to this proposal is that relating 
t o the competitive advantage that may be afforded Applicant as a result of 
i t s Proposed reorganization plan. Considering Eastern Trust's present size, 
a n d the corresponding proposed size of Applicant, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of Applicant's proposal, while likely to afford Applicant 

219 
-4-
operating efficiencies not now available to Eastern Trust, will not 
sufficiently enhance Applicant's competitive position, as measured against 
that now held by Eastern Trust, so as to weigh against approval. 
The proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly or be 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any relevant area. Nor would its consummation 
substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain 
trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its proposed subsidiary banks 
is sound and their prospects are favorable. Applicant's management (the 
same as that of Eastern Trust), and of the banks, is satisfactory. Con-
siderations relating to the banking factors are found to be consistent 
with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Applicant's 
Proposal will have no immediate effect on the convenience and needs of the 
communities served by the proposed subsidiary banks. No change in the 
services presently being provided by Eastern Trust and its three subsid-
iary banks is contemplated at this time. Considering the extent to which 
Applicant's proposed subsidiary banks are presently serving the convenience 
and needs of their respective communities, this factor, as it relates to 
the present proposal, is consistent with approval of the application. 

220 
-2-
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in sec-
tion 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
action would be in the public interest and that the application should 
be approved. 
January 21, 1969. 
r . 
ZV-tr. 
, ' . 
* , 
' 
-

221 
Item No. 3 
1/21/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
NORTHLAND BANCSHARES, INC., 
' 
Bridgeton, Missouri,
 
1 
for approval of action to become a bank 
' 
holding company through the acquisition 
' 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting
 
1 
shares of Mark Twain State Bank,
 
1 
Bridgeton, Missouri, and South County 
' 
Bank, St. Louis County, Missouri.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve .Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Northland Bancshares, Inc., 
Bridgeton, Missouri, for the Board's prior approval of action 
^hereby Applicant, presently the owner of 97.5 per cent of the 
voting shares of Northland Bank, Jennings, Missouri, would become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of Mark Twain State Bank, Bridgeton, 
Missouri, and South County Bank, St. Louis County, Missouri. 

-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice to the Commissioner of Finance of the State of Missouri of 
receipt of the application and requested his views and recommendation. 
He recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 18, 1968 (33 Federal Register 10294), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of the Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 21st day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

22 3 
Item No. 4 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
1/21/69 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
NORTHLAND BANCSHARES, INC., BRIDGETON, MISSOURI, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
• 
1 
Northland Bancshares, Inc., Bridgeton, Missouri ("Applicant") 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Mark Twain State Bank, Bridgeton, 
Missouri, and of South County Bank, St. Louis County, Missouri, 
applicant presently owns 97.5 per cent of the voting shares of 
Northland Bank, Jennings, Missouri. The three banks named are some-
times hereafter referred to as the "Banks". As a part of the 
transaction, Applicant will change its name to "Mark Twain 
Bancshares, Inc.". 
1/ 
Mark Twain State Bank ($19 million deposits) 
and South 
County Bank ($33 million deposits), the proposed subsidiaries, and 
Northland Bank ($32 million deposits), Applicant's present subsidiary, 
a r e all located in St. Louis County. The laws of Missouri prohibit 
All banking data are as of June 29, 1968, unless otherwise noted. 

9 9 1 
-2-
branch banking, and each of the Banks has only one office. A high 
degree of common ownership exists among them - shareholders owning 
47 
per cent of Applicant's stock own 85.5 per cent of that of 
Mark Twain State Bank; shareholders owning 51 per cent of Appli-
cant's stock own 41.6 per cent of that of South County Bank; and 
shareholders owning 51 per cent of Mark Twain State Bank's stock own 
9.6 per cent of that of South County Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
application was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, 
the Commissioner of Finance of the State of Missouri. The Com-
missioner recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
a n y part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
°r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into 

-2-
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Upon con-
summation of the proposed transaction, Applicant would control .8 per 
cent of total deposits in Missouri. Subsidiaries of four registered 
2/ 
bank holding companies 
in Missouri control 2.5 per cent of the 
banking offices, and 9.9 per cent of total deposits in the State. 
Applicant's acquisition of the Mark Twain and South County Banks 
would increase by 1 per cent the banking offices and deposits thus 
controlled. 
3/ 
The service areas 
of the Banks are all within St. Louis 
County. These areas do not overlap, but those of Northland Bank 
and Mark Twain State Bank are contiguous. The Banks' offices are 
separated from each other by distances ranging from 11 to 35 miles. 
In their respective service areas, Northland Bank ranks fourth in 
size (of eight banks), Mark Twain State Bank ranks fifth (of 
banks), and South County Bank ranks third (of six banks). The 
a8gregate deposits of the Banks constitute 7 per cent of the total 
deposits in St. Louis County and only 1.9 per cent of the total 
•s' Giving effect to formation as a bank holding company of 
Coicmerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, pursuant to 
Board approval granted on July 25, 1968. 
y 
The areas from which Applicant estimates that 80 per cent of the 
demand deposits of individuals, partnerships, and corporations of 
the respective Banks are derived. 

-4-
226 
deposits in the combined area of that County and the adjoining City 
of St. Louis. Consuirmation of the transaction would result in slight 
increases in the low degree of concentration presently existing in 
the relevant areas. 
In addition to the high degree of common ownership of the 
Banks, their managements interlock to some extent, and the Banks 
function as a group, engaging in joint advertising and promotion, 
aud sharing loans. Inasmuch as the chief effect of Applicant's pro-
posal would be a change in the form of an existing relationship, the 
extent and nature of competition between the Banks and other area 
banks would not be significantly altered, nor would there be any 
reduction in the number of banking alternatives in any of the 
relevant areas. Moreover, since the evidence before the Board in-
dicates that the possibility of discontinuance of the existing 
relationships among the Banks is remote regardless of Board action 
°n the present application, potential competition among the Banks, 
°r between any of them and other area banks, would not be affected 
by 
consummation of the proposal. 
On the record before it, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. 
Further, 
there appears to be no reasonable probability that consummation of 
the proposal would substantially lessen competition, tend to create 
a monopoly, or operate in restraint of trade. 

o o ^ 
/OA* ( 
-5-
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial and managerial resources and its future prospects 
are dependent upon its subsidiary Banks. As applied to the Banks, 
these factors are, except as noted below, considered generally satis-
factory. The record reflects that Applicant has a high debt position, 
Principally incurred in acquiring Northland Bank, that the capital of 
South County Bank is less than satisfactory, and that the capital 
Position of the other two banks could be improved. Applicant has 
submitted to the Board a firm proposal with respect to reduction of 
its debt and improvement of the capital position of each of the Banks. 
On the basis of the extent to which this program has now been com-
pleted, and the assurances given by Applicant as to its early total 
completion in 1969, the Board concludes that the banking factors 
with respect to Applicant and the Banks are consistent with approval 
°f the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the individuals and businesses located in the areas 
served by the Banks appear to be adequately served at present by 
the Banks and their competitors. It appears that the proposal will 
result in expansion of services and increased efficiencies, the 
availability of larger lines of credit at the Banks, and will tend 
t o promote the success of the above-mentioned program for strengthen-
ing the Banks' capital structures. 

Considerations bearing on this factor lend some weight in 
favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
January 21, 1969. 

229 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20351 
Item No. 5 
1/21/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January"21, 1969. 
Mr. Herbert V. Prochnow, 
Secretary, 
Federal Advisory Council, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Herb: 
The Board of Governors suggests the topics shown on 
the attached list for discussion at the meeting of the Federal 
Advisory Council on February 17, 1969, and the joint meeting 
of the Board and the Council on February 18. 
In addition, we are enclosing a list of questions on 
which banks reporting under the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
program have been invited to comment in the course of five regional 
meetings that Governor Brimmer will be holding during the period 
January 22 through February 26, 1969. The Board would be interested 
in hearing any views that Council members might want to express on 
the issues covered, which relate primarily to export financing. 
The arrangements for the Council meeting requested in 
your letter of January 17 have been made. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Attachments 

Suggested Topics for Discussion at Meeting of 
Federal Advisory Council on February 17-18, 1969 
Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general economic outlook 
for 1969, assuming (1) that the tax surcharge will be extended? 
• (2) that the surcharge will be allowed to lapse at midyear? 
B. Have Council members received any indication from customer 
contacts of recent changes in capital spending plans for 
1969? 
Of changes in inventory policies? 
C. In the Council's judgment, has there been any modification 
recently in business community attitudes with respect to 
prospects for price and cost developments? 
Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the probable strength 
of business loan demand in the months ahead? 
B. What types of bank portfolio adjustments have been made 
or are in prospect in response to the recent posture of 
restraint in monetary policy? 
What changes have occurred 
or are likely in bank policies in the principal loan 
categories—business, consumer, mortgage, and financial? 
C. What are the Council's views with respect to the current 
and prospective availability of short-term funds to banks 
through the CD, Euro-dollar, and Federal funds markets? 
D. What have been the consequences for bank liquidity 
management and portfolio planning of the substantial rise 
in firm loan commitments during recent years? 
E. To what extent have requests for firm loan commitments 
risen since mid-December, 1968? 
The Board would welcome any comments Council members might 
have on the regulations issued in January to implement the 
Bank Protection Act of 1968. 
How does the Council view the prospects for continued inflow 
°f foreign capital into U.S. equities? 
What are the Council's views on monetary and credit policy 
under current circumstances? 

Questions to be Considered in Review of 
Federal Reserve Guidelines on Foreign Credit Restraints 
Export Effects - General 
1. Have the VFCR ceilings limited your institution in 
extending export credits to foreigners? 
If they have, 
supply information (for example, amount, type of 
product, destination) on the U.S. exports you were 
thereby unable to finance, 
2. If your over-all ceiling (as adjusted from time to 
time) has not limited your financing of U.S. exports, 
has the special restraint under the guidelines per-
taining to continental Western Europe effectively 
limited export credits you were prepared to extend to 
foreigners? 
Can you supply background information 
(e.g., amount, type of product, destinations)? 
3. If your institution has had to forego extending some 
export credits because of the program, have any of 
your customers in such a situation obtained financing 
from (i) your U.S. competitors, (ii) from other U.S. 
sources, or (iii) from foreign sources? 
4. Do you have firm knowledge that a U.S. export sale has 
been lost because you (or because you and others) 
have been unable to make an export loan to a foreigner? 
5. Have you observed any increased foreign demand for 
credit covering U.S. exports? 
Over the duration of the 
program? 
Recently? 
Export Effects - Administrative 
6. To what extent, if any, have you or any of your cus-
tomers used an Export-Import Bank or Foreign Credit 
Insurance Association guarantee or insurance to make 
an export credit you would otherwise have had to deny 
your ceiling? 
i '.••(• i 
• ... * 
• 
• 
; " 
j 
7. Has the term bona fide export credit, as given in the 
guidelines, served as an adequate definition for your 
purposes? 
If not, please specify by examples. 

-2-
8. Where you extend credits that arise directly out of 
the financing of exports of U.S. goods and services 
or that are reasonably necessary for the financing 
of such exports, is each separate transaction under a 
particular credit or line of credit identifiable as a 
direct or indirect export transaction? 
If the defini-
tion of a bona fide export credit were to be made more 
explicit, would it be feasible for you to use a version 
that narrowed it to a credit extended only to a foreign 
importer? 
9. In the event that export credits to foreign affiliates 
of U.S. corporations were to be treated differently 
from export credits to other foreigners, would it be 
practicable for your institution to identify which of 
its export credits were for foreign affiliates of U.S. 
firms? 
Effect on Credits 
10. Of applications submitted to your bank for foreign 
export credits, what proportion is represented by 
credits of over one year maturity? 
(If you do not 
have information on the amount of applications, reply 
in terms of outstanding credits). If greater leeway 
were to be provided for export credit with an original 
maturity of over one year, would you anticipate the 
volume of short-term credits to rise in the form of 
export credits in order to avoid the restraint that would 
continue to apply to short-term credit? 
11. Prior to the VFCR program, about what proportion of your 
bank's total loans and advances to Americans and for-
eigners represented export credits? 
If the ratio has 
changed significantly, to what extent has it been attrib-
utable to the VFCR program? 
Effect on Over-all Foreign Operations 
12. Have the actual or potential foreign operations of your 
bank been hindered or stimulated by the VFCR program? 
If there has been an explicit modification one way or 
the other, please state the type of operations involved. 
