09 
5-67) 
Minutes for 
January 3, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your init ials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the tninutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 3, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administra-
tive Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mrs . Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Noble and Plotkin of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull and Greenspun of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Lyon, Burton, and Kline of the Division 
of Examinations 
Application of BT New York Corporation. By order dated May 4, 
1967, the Board denied the application of BT New York Corporation, 
Suffern, New York, a registered bank holding company, to acquire 

1/3/68 
_2 _ 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Liberty National Bank and 
Trust Company, Buffalo, New York. Subsequently, the applicant and 
Liberty formally requested that the Board reconsider its decision and 
filed appeals from that decision in the United States Court of Appeals 
m the District of Columbia. The court proceedings were suspended 
pending the Board's decision on the requests for reconsideration. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated December 15, 
1967, from the Legal Division, with attached analyses by the Legal 
Division, the Division of Examinations, the Banking Markets Section, 
and the Examinations Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York. The Legal Division, for reasons stated in the memorandum, rec-
ommended that the requests for reconsideration be granted and, after 
evaluation of the legal aspects involved and the additional materials 
submitted by the petitioners, recommended that the Board reaffirm its 
original decision. The New York Reserve Bank's Examinations Department 
renewed its earlier recommendation that the application be approved, 
but the Board's Division-of Examinations concurred with the Legal Divi-
sion's views. The Banking Markets Section recommended denial upon 
reconsideration, finding no support in the additional material sub-
mitted for a reversal of the Board's decision. 
At today's meeting Governor Maisel inquired about the legal 
aspects of withholding action on the requests for reconsideration 
until the Board had dealt with an application expected to be filed 

1/3/68 
_3 _ 
by First Empire State Corporation, Buffalo, New York, to form a bank 
holding company, subsidiaries of which would be Manufacturers and 
Traders Trust Company, Buffalo, National Commercial Bank and Trust 
Company, Albany, and First Trust and Deposit Company, Syracuse. 
It 
seemed to him that the disposition of the Empire application would have 
a substantial bearing on the present case. 
Mr. O'Connell replied that if the Board delayed action on the 
present requests until the Empire application had been filed and the 
case decided, it would in effect have relied on the facts of the Empire 
application in deciding the BT New York Corporation case. He believed 
it would be inappropriate to follow that course. 
Governor Maisel observed that if the Board decided to grant 
the pending requests it need not reconsider immediately. It seemed to 
him that questions could be raised if the Board knew of another prospec-
tive application but took the position that it could not consider that 
information. 
It was his feeling that if the Empire application was 
approved, that fact would be an important consideration bearing upon 
the banking structure in New York State. Therefore, the background 
against which the BT New York Corporation case would be reconsidered 
would be quite different from the background that existed when it was 
first considered. 
Governor Robertson suggested that decisions might be postponed 
indefinitely if in a developing situation they were delayed to await 

1/3/68 
_ 4 _ 
applications not yet filed. He believed the Board must judge on the 
basis of information now available whether or not to reconsider, and 
then, if it did decide to reconsider, proceed to a conclusion based on 
the existing situation. 
Governor Brimmer commented that with the United States Court 
of Appeals having suspended its proceedings awaiting the judgment of 
the Board in regard to reconsideration, if the Board delayed until the 
Empire application had been disposed of, the Court might remand the 
BT New York case to the Board. 
Mr. O'Connell expressed the view that it would be proper for 
the Board, if it agreed to reconsider, to do so on the merits of this 
particular case, including a determination whether any of the additional 
information that had been presented warranted a different decision. 
While the Board was entitled to consider the prospect of the filing of 
the Empire application, if its judgment was thereby swayed that fact 
should be reflected in the statement in support of its decision. 
How-
ever, it was his recommendation that the Board decide the present ques-
tion on the basis of the file relating to the application, which would 
not include information regarding the Empire application. 
Governor Mitchell said he did not see justification for holding 
the present case pending decision regarding the Empire application. 
Moreover, if the Board did decide the present case in light of the 
pendency of the Empire application, it thereby would have prejudiced 
its position in regard to the latter. 

2s 
1/3/68 
_5_ 
Mr. Hexter expressed the view that the applications should be 
acted upon chronologically. 
Thus the BT New York application should 
be decided without regard to the Empire application, which had not been 
filed, but the decision on the latter could take into consideration the 
decision on the BT New York application. Also, there was nothing to 
prevent BT New York Corporation from filing a new application, if it 
so desired, following the Board's decision on the Empire application. 
Governor Brimmer commented that if the Empire application were 
before the Board or had even been filed the situation would be differ-
ent. As matters stood, no such application was yet in existence. 
In response to questions by Governor Mitchell regarding what 
oenetit would be derived from granting the requests for reconsidera-
tion, Mr. O'Connell expressed the view that the Board's position would 
be stronger before the Court of Appeals if it reconsidered, evaluated 
the supplemental information submitted, and, if that should be its 
decision, reaffirmed its original findings and perhaps amplified them. 
Some areas of the Board's original statement might be clarified and 
reinforced. To the extent that the Board felt the arguments advanced 
by the petitioners needed to be controverted, there was value in con-
troverting them in writing. 
After further comments on procedures, the discussion turned 
to the petitioners' contentions, a principal point at issue being 
their view that in the absence of the proposed bank holding company 

25i 
1/3/68 
_ 6 _ 
affiliation, Liberty National had no reasonable expectation of becom-
ing a bank that would offer leadership in its community, either inde-
pendently or in combination with other banks outside New York City. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that with respect to lead 
potential, Liberty National fell about in the middle. 
It appeared to 
him that what the record reflected was not financial incapacity as 
much as a lack of will--a condition peculiar to the present management 
rather than to the bank as such. He believed a concentrated analysis 
of the growth pattern would be helpful. 
After further discussion the Board unanimously approved the 
requests that the application of BT New York Corporation be reconsid-
ered. 
The members of the Board present, with the exception of Governor 
Maisel, then agreed to proceed with reconsideration. 
Governor Maisel 
did not concur because he would have preferred to postpone reconsidera-
tion for reasons such as he had outlined. Governor Brimmer, although 
concurring, stated that he had hoped reconsideration could be delayed 
long e nough to permit an analysis in greater depth by the Banking 
Markets Section. 
A vote was then taken on the merits of the case upon reconsid-
eration, with the result that the original decision of denial was 
Reaffirmed. All members of the Board present participated in this 
decision with the exception of Governor Maisel, who abstained from 
voting because of the procedural point he had raised. 

34 
1/3/68 
-7-
It was understood that appropriate implementing documents 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Members of the staff not concerned with the following matter 
withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Annex building. Mr. Shepardson stated that it was expected 
the National Capital Planning Commission would approve, on January 11, 
the plans for the proposed annex building to be constructed on the 
Board's property north of C Street. He understood that approval might 
be expected also of the north garage, to be constructed below the sur-
face of the plot to the north of the Board's property, the surface of 
which was zoned for a park but was now used as a parking lot by the 
Department of the Interior. He wished today to obtain the Board's 
views regarding the proposed agreement for construction and use of 
the north garage. He then reviewed the several possible arrangements 
that had been explored in the past as means of providing the north 
garage. 
Under the plan now proposed, Mr. Shepardson continued, the 
Board would construct the north garage, at an estimated cost of 
$4- million, and would ask its architects, in consultation with the 
National Park Service, to develop the design for the park on the sur-
face. The Board thus would be assured of having a type of surface 
development that would harmonize with its annex building. The Depart-
ment of the Interior and the Board would enter into an agreement for 

31 
1/3/68 
-8-
reimbursing the Board for the Department's proportionate share of the 
garage construction cost, such reimbursement to be made over a 40-year 
period without interest. To generate the required funds, the Depart-
ment's Recreational Association would charge employees for the use of 
garage space. 
The Board's architects had indicated that spaces could be pro-
vided in the north garage for 500 cars. It had been contemplated 
Previously, when a smaller capacity seemed in prospect, that 250 spaces 
would be as signed to the Department of the Interior in exchange for the 
spaces they would lose through elimination of the parking lot on the 
surface. However, the Department now wanted the agreement to specify 
that two-thirds, or possibly more, of the spaces be assigned to it, 
but with an absolute minimum of 250 spaces. Mr. Shepardson believed 
it possible that as many as 400 of the 500 spaces could be assigned to 
the Department without hardship from the Board's standpoint; it might 
b e
 found that 100 additional spaces in the north garage would be suf-
ficient to supplement the spaces in the main garage of the annex build-
ing. 
The cost of each space, using present estimates, would be about 
$8,000. That cost, spread over 40 years, would suggest a monthly rental 
charge of $16.67. The employees' association of Interior wanted to add 
to the charge a certain amount to allow for their expenses of super-
vision, such as assignment of spaces and collection of rentals. 
(Actual 

1/3/68 
-9-
policing maintenance of the garage would remain with the Board.) 
The 
fees established at the beginning would run for 10 years, subject to 
renegotiation by consent of the parties. In the absence of negotiated 
changes, the fees would continue in effect over the 40-year amortiza-
tion period, after which the parties would decide the basis of future 
occupancy. 
The Department of the Interior also wished to provide that if 
a
t any time one of their spaces was unused, their monthly bill would 
be reduced proportionately. Mr. Shepardson did not think it would be 
appropriate for the agreement to include such a provision for temporary 
vacancies. Rather, the Department should be responsible for the spaces 
reserved for it. It would seem that problems such as departure of an 
employee without paying his garage rent could be handled by charging a 
sufficient fee to absorb such a loss. However, in recognition of the 
Possibility of contingencies such as transfer of a number of employees 
to other office quarters, the agreement would specify that on 30 days' 
notice the Department unilaterally could reduce the number of spaces 
for which it was obligated. The number could not be increased again 
except by mutual consent. 
N 
Another point in the agreement, Mr. Shepardson said, related to 
several good trees now on the surface that would be an asset to the new 
Park, but that would have to be removed to permit construction of the 
north garage. 
It would be provided that the Board would replace those 
trees with comparable ones on the park site. 

1/3/68 
-io-
Mr. Shepardson noted also that in earlier discussions it had 
been agreed informally that during construction of the annex building 
the Department of the Interior would arrange interim parking for Board 
employees. 
It now appeared probable that such arrangements would not 
be necessary because the Board's needs would be taken care of under 
its Watergate lease. However, that parking could be provided only 
until construction was begun on the last building in the Watergate 
complex, expected to be undertaken in about three years. Thus, the 
Board might still wish to avail itself of the agreement with Interior 
to provide interim parking space, and Mr. Shepardson recommended that 
such a provision be retained in the agreement. 
The present prospect was that the principal entrance and exit 
°f the north garage would be on 21st Street, with a supplementary exit 
Virginia Avenue and an emergency connection with the main garage of 
the annex building. Although highway officials had earlier doubted 
that a Virginia Avenue exit would be feasible, they now held the view 
that the amount of traffic would justify one. 
Mr. Shepardson said a question had been raised during prelimi-
n a r
y conferences with the Planning Commission regarding the use of the 
north garage for night parking for those attending events at Constitu-
tion Hall, or possibly elsewhere in the area. The Board's present 
P
a
rking lot, and to some extent the Interior Department parking lot, 
W e
r e now used for that purpose. 
It was his suggestion that night 

34 
1/3/68 
-11-
parking be permitted, but on a fee basis. 
If the Board concurred, he 
would propose that the Department of the Interior agree to permit sim-
ilar use of its garage space. 
At the conclusion of Mr. Shepardson's review he responded to 
various questions asked by members of the Board regarding details of 
the proposed agreement. 
In reply to a question regarding liability 
insurance, he replied that that subject had not been discussed during 
negotiations with the Interior Department. 
Some members of the Board 
expressed the view that it would seem appropriate that the Department 
assume responsibility for its assigned space. However, Mr. O'Connell 
noted that while the Department might be requested to agree to liabil-
ity 
coverage, care and maintenance responsibility, which the Board 
would assume, usually included liability for damage to cars when per-
sonal liabi lity could not be fixed. 
It seemed probable that if the 
Board bought liability insurance for the annex building generally, 
extending the coverage to the garage space occupied by the Department 
of the Interior would not involve a prohibitive premium. 
At the instance of Governor Robertson, there followed a dis-
cussion of the basic justification for the north garage project. 
In 
addition to the advantage that would be provided in terms of site 
development, reference was made to several other factors. 
These 
included the assurance of adequate garage facilities for Board employ-
e e s
j the fact that the outlay for the portion of the garage to be used 

'i r~ 
1/3/68 
-12-
by Interior would be recouped over a period of time, with the only 
ultimate cost to the Board being that attributable to maintenance, and 
the fact that the north garage was an integral part of the total build-
ing project. Members of the Board agreed that, considering all factors, 
the garage project appeared justified. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the members of the Board 
expressed agreement with the terms of the proposal Mr. Shepardson had 
described. 
Mr. Shepardson said the architects had inquired about the 
offic 
ial designation of the annex building, so that it could be iden-
tified at the time final approval of the plans was sought. 
After discussion, it was agreed that the annex would be desig-
nated Federal Reserve Building North. 
>* ****** 4 VV 
J'J , 
' •.';'••' 
- '-• 
Call for condition reports. Under the procedure prescribed by 
statute the close of business Saturday, December 30, 1967, had been 
selected as the date for the fourth call for reports of condition to 
be made by insured banks within the calendar year 1967. The call was 
to be announced on Friday, January 5, 1968. 
In accordance with the usual practice, a telegram had been 
sent to all Federal Reserve Banks on January 2 advising that a call 
for reports of condition by State member banks as of the close of 
business December 30 should be made at a specified time on forms fur-
nished with the Board's letter of December 20, 1967. 

1/3/68 
_13 _ 
Th e sending of the telegram was ratified by unanimous vote. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Letters were sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of its 
intent to establish an additional branch in 
Germany, to be located in Munich, and an 
additional branch in Panama, to be located 
in Panama City. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
December 27, 1967, recommending the establishment of a "visiting 
Professor" position in the Flow of Funds and Savings Section. 
Memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated 
January 3, 1968, recommending the establishment of a new secretarial 
Position in the Administration Section of that Division, effective 
January 1, 1968. 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
January 2, 1968, recommending that an experienced reader be employed 
on a contractual basis for a period of four to six weeks at the rate 
of approximately $3.80 to $4.00 per hour to proofread material for 
the Federal Reserve Loose-Leaf Service, it being understood that final 
a
rrangements would be made with either Manpower, Inc., or Nationwide 
Personnel. 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
January 2, 1968, recommending that the contracts of the following 
Persons employed by that Division on a contractual basis be extended 
through December 31, 1968: 
Employee 
R u
t h A . Brown, Telegraph Operator 
Josephine S. Marcey, Telephone Operator 
Karl J. Steger, Operating Engineer 
Compensation 
$2.80 per hour 
2.15 per hour 
2.92 per hour 

1/3/68 
_14 _ 
On January 3, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
approving the appointment of Alwyn W. Davis as 
assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
approving the appointment of John F. Bringolf 
as assistant examiner. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Sacramento County. 
Secretary 

38 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20S51 
Item No. 1 
1/3/68 
A O D R C B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 4, 1968. 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of December 29, 1967, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Alwyn W. 
Davis as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond, effective January 3, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

33 
f^rfPv' 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
1/3/68 
WASHINGTON, 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 3, 1968. 
Mr. Leiand M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of December 27, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of John F. Bringolf as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Please advise 
the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
04190 
Item No. 3 
January 3, 1968 
1/3/68 
Mr. H."l Mend m , 
Soni>r E;ec»itivc Vice President, 
Un^teo C « U f trnih Bank, 
600 Sjuth Spring S t m t , 
Los Angeles, Cullfontio 90054. 
Doc i 'Ax. Mendan: 
On behnlf of the Boa 
F^der?1 H^aerva System, acting 
thie B mi tu r rpproveU 
excens 
the tia* w U h i n 
Calif 
a branch in the >icini.ty o£\the Int. 
load end Stack.hn Boulevard,\sacra«an^o County, Califarn*.. . 
if the 
ed 
"ho :
;
 t»r, 
ly 19, 1 
oi 
Bank may establish 
set t ion of Florin 
leat 
retention 
Ranted in . onne> <:i-«n w .th che 
in your Tester dated itecaaber 27, 1967. 
Very truly ynira, 
?r.£nvi) ,. :•. 
L. Jenniir 
Zrvin L. Jennings, 
Vlca President. 
