Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 8, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmerl/ 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Exami-
nations 
IT Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

4/8/68 
-2-
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Other appropriate staff members also were 
present for portions of the meeting. 
The following items were approved unanimously after considera-
tion of background information that had been made available to the 
Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International Banking 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to purchase shares of Nederlandse Overzee Bank 
N.V., Amsterdam, The Netherlands, and to enter 
into related transactions. 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
2 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting consent 
to purchase shares of Banque Europeenne d'Outre-
Mer S.A. , Brussels, Belgium, and to provide the 
Banque with a complementary endowment. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
3 
Francisco interposing no objection to the purchase 
of property adjoining the Los Angeles Branch 
building site. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
4 
aPproving payment of salaries to Eugene J. Wagner 
and Allen G. Wolkey as Assistant Vice Presidents 
at the rates fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 

4/8/68 
-3-
Among the materials distributed with respect to Items 1 and 2 
was a memorandum dated March 27, 1968, in which the Division of Exami-
nations set forth the background of the two proposals, which were 
parts of a package of related transactions that had been under negotia-
tion since the summer of 1967. The memorandum expressed the view of 
the Division that, while the contemplated investments were in developed 
countries of continental Western Europe, they would appear to qualify 
for a special exemption from the Board's current policy of not ordinarily 
approving such investments. In the form in which the letters were 
approved, they contained language noting that an exception was being 
made specifically because the negotiations had antedated the announce-
ment of the current policy. 
Citizens Trust Company. There had been distributed a memoran-
dum dated April 5, 1968, from the Division of Bank Operations regarding 
the request of Citizens Trust Company, Atlanta, Georgia, for permission 
to carry reserves at the rate required for banks not in reserve cities. 
The Division concurred in the Atlanta Reserve Bank's recommendation 
that the request be approved. It pointed out that the attached draft 
letter, at Governor Brimmer's suggestion, expressed the understanding 
that Citizens Trust Company would take advantage of the potential 
increase in earnings resulting from the lower reserve requirements to 
take steps to improve its management. 

J * 
I 
^ t X. 
4/8/68 
Governor Mitchell questioned the appropriateness of including 
what amounted to a condition regarding management improvement. 
In reply, Governor Brimmer referred to the efforts that he 
and the Atlanta Reserve Bank had been making to get Citizens Trust 
Company to focus on the need for management improvement. The Reserve 
Bank for some time had been informing Citizens Trust Company that 
it probably would qualify for the reduced reserve privilege and he 
had urged the bank to apply. The earnings from the funds released 
from reserve requirements would provide the salary for an additional 
high-level officer, and the services of such a person were badly needed. 
Governor Mitchell observed that under the standards the Board 
had set, Citizens Trust Company would be entitled to the reduced reserve 
privilege in any event. 
Mr. Hexter then mentioned reasons why it might be desirable 
to avoid the appearance of attaching to the privilege a condition of 
improvement in management, and there ensued a discussion in which alter-
native language was suggested. 
Governor Brimmer having expressed his satisfaction with the 
alternative, letter was approved unanimously in the form attached as 
Item No. 5. 
Reports from broker and dealer firms. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated April 4, 1968, from the Division of Research and 

J jO ( AV 
4/8/68 
-5-
Statistics recommending changes in the content and coverage of the 
Confidential Report of Member Firm of a National Securities Exchange 
(Form F.R. 240), to be used beginning June 30, 1968. The reports were 
obtained each year from approximately 350 security broker and dealer 
firms that carried margin accounts and were members of the New York 
Stock Exchange. In order to obtain more complete benchmark data, the 
Division recommended three changes in content, as described in the 
memorandum. It also recommended that the coverage be extended to 
include members of the American Stock Exchange that were not also 
members of the New York Stock Exchange. Attached was the revised 
reporting form, which was to be cleared with the Bureau of the Budget. 
After discussion, the recommendations were approved unanimously. 
Central Bancorp. There had been distributed a memorandum dated 
March 29, 1968, from the Division of Examinations, with other pertinent 
papers, regarding the application of Central Bancorp, Miami, Florida, 
to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of 
Central Bank and Trust Company and Central Bank of North Dade, both of 
Miami. The application sought to place in a corporate entity the control 
of each bank now held by an estate. 
Governor Mitchell noted that certain statistics in the memoran-
dum from the Division gave the impression that there was a considerable 
amount of competition between the two proposed subsidiary banks. However, 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-6-
since the banks had common ownership, competition probably was not 
material and he did not think a statement in support of approval 
should reflect the analysis he had mentioned. 
After staff comments regarding the relevant market area and 
the degree of present and prospective competition, Governor Brimmer 
said he shared the view expressed by the Banking Markets Section that, 
although the market areas of the two banks overlapped, even if they 
were now independent institutions the effect of the proposal on competi-
• ' •• „ 
of- . r.'.i. t 
-.'..i : vviiU-.i i'.;7 tV tl i . • > " t ^ 
tion would be only slightly adverse. However, since the convenience 
and needs factor was evaluated as having little weight, he wondered 
what offsets there might be to justify approval. 
Staff expressed the view that if the common ownership of the 
banks were dissolved, Central Bank of North Dade might have difficulty 
in becoming an effective competitor since it might not be able to 
continue the arrangements through which Central Bank and Trust Company 
provided certain services. In that sense it could be said that facili-
tating continuance of the present relationships constituted a plus 
regarding the convenience and needs factor. 
Governor Robertson observed that nevertheless there was nothing 
in the record to indicate that Central Bank of North Dade was in a 
failing position, nor was there any indication that it could not grow 
and serve the community. 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-7-
During a canvass of Board members' views, Governor Mitchell 
expressed the opinion that the corporate interest was apparently the 
principal interest to be served by the proposal. He would yield to 
it, since it appeared highly improbable that the two banks would be 
divorced in any event. While the banks operated in the same market 
to some degree, they did not seem to be trying to take business from 
one another. 
Governor Daane agreed with those observations, and 
Governor Sherrill said he would favor the proposal because he considered 
it a constructive move from the standpoint of banking structure. 
Gover-
nor Brimmer reiterated some doubt whether sufficient support was to be 
found under the banking and management factors to outweigh the slightly 
adverse competitive factor; however, that admittedly involved a question 
of judgment and he was willing to go along with approval if it was the 
Board's judgment that justification could be found. 
The application of Central Bancorp was thereupon approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that an order and statement would be 
drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Bank of Virginia. A memorandum from the Division of Examinations 
dated March 25, 1968, and other pertinent papers had been distributed 
in connection with applications by The Bank of Virginia, Richmond, 
Virginia, for permission to merge with (1) The Peoples Bank of Reedville, 
Reedville, Virginia, and (2) The Peoples Bank of White Stone, White Stone, 
Virginia. 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-8-
Following staff comments, the applications were approved unani-
mously, it being understood that an order and statement would be drafted 
for the Board's consideration. 
Multiple ownership of Edge corporations. The Board had addressed 
an inquiry to the Department of Justice regarding possible antitrust 
implications of certain applications in which banks sought to combine 
in organizing Edge corporations. One application on which comment was 
requested was that of a group of banks headed by American Fletcher 
National Bank and Trust Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, to form an 
Edge corporation to be called American Overseas Banking Corporation, New 
York, New York. 
' v'l'V". 
nk.'!•.• 
r- "• • ' "Li j,: 
,r: • 
The reply of the Department indicated that the only significant 
antitrust issue it saw in such joint ventures was that in some circum-
stances they might unduly limit the number of competitors engaged in 
international banking and financial operations. This might occur if the 
number of banks participating was unduly large of if it included banks 
already having competing Edge Act subsidiaries or other international 
banking operations. While it might be questioned whether American Over-
seas Banking Corporation needed the number of shareholding banks proposed 
(up to 20) in order to conduct effective international banking operations 
the Department was not in a position to resolve that question or to 
conclude that participation of that number of banks was likely to limit 

4/8/68 
-9-
unreasonably the number of such corporations that were likely to be 
formed. 
The Division of Examinations had submitted to the Board a 
memorandum dated March 14, 1968, analyzing the over-all issue involved, 
apart from its specific application to the proposal to form American 
Overseas Banking Corporation, from the point of view of the structure 
of banks interested in international operations, competition in New 
York, competition among participants, and the position of nonpartici-
pating banks. 
The Division concluded that in a broad sense proposals for 
multibank Edge corporations were a reflection of increasing competition 
among U.S. banks in the international banking field. Once almost the 
exclusive province of New York City banks, international banking business 
in the U.S. had become increasingly diffused as more and more banks 
across the country developed a capacity to offer a full range of inter-
national banking services to foreign and domestic customers. However, 
th 
is development was still in its early stages and a large group of 
banks had undeveloped capabilities in this area. For such banks a 
jointly-owned Edge corporation offered a means of enlarging their inter-
national capabilities and competing more effectively, domestically and 
internationally, with the large "international" banks. 
Joint ventures of this type could have anticompetitive implica-
tions from several standpoints, as developed in the memorandum. Therefore 
the Division believed that applications to establish such corporations 

4/8/68 
-10-
would best be considered on a case-by-case basis. The size of the 
existing international business and the location of the participat-
ing banks would seem to be the principal points of departure in 
considering the competitive implications of a particular venture. The 
Board could also request the views of the Department of Justice if it 
so desired. 
Moreover, because of the latent competitive problem involved, 
the Board might wish to exercise control over participation in such 
corporations subsequent to their establishment. At present, a member 
bank did not need the Board's approval to invest in an Edge corporation. 
A change in the ownership of a corporation did not require Board approval 
unless changes in the articles of association of the corporation were 
involved. To allow the Board to exercise surveillance over the number 
and composition of the stockholders, the Board could require that the 
articles of association of the corporation specify the names and owner-
ship interests of the stockholding banks. 
As to joint ventures abroad involving more than one U.S. bank, 
considerations similar to those outlined with respect to joint ventures 
in the U.S. would seem applicable in assessing their competitive impli-
cations. In addition, the character of the foreign institution and 
the nature of the U.S. bank's affiliation with it would be elements 
entering into a judgment on particular investments as they were proposed. 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-11-
Discussion at today's meeting of the approach suggested by the 
Division of Examinations centered principally on the proposed stipula-
tion that the stockholders of an Edge corporation be specified in its 
articles of association, which were subject to approval by the Board. 
Such a requirement would make subject to the Board's approval not only 
the initial combination of stockholders but also any changes in it. 
Question was raised how prospective applicants could be expected 
to be aware of such a requirement, and the staff responsed that in 
practice applicants to form an Edge corporation discussed with Federal 
Reserve staff the procedures for submitting the application. Moreover, 
for many years it had been the custom to indicate to prospective appli-
cants the preferred form of articles of association. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Board approved unani-
mously the approach the staff had recommended. 
American Overseas Banking Corporation. The Division of Exami-
nations had presented in a memorandum dated March 19, 1968, the appli-
cation of American Fletcher National Bank and Trust Company, Indianapolis, 
Indiana, and associated banks for permission to organize a corporation 
pursuant to section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act to be known as 
American Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York. The appli-
cation was also discussed in the Division's aforementioned memorandum 
of March 14, 1968. In essence, the Division's view was that there seemed 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-12-
little reason to believe that formation of the corporation would signi-
ficantly diminish actual or potential competition in New York City, 
among the participants, or in local banking markets. The Division also 
concluded that it was difficult to find a firm basis for objecting to 
the participation in American Overseas Banking Corporation of up to 
20 banks having characteristics of those presently proposed. Therefore, 
approval was recommended. Attached to the memorandum of March 19 was 
a draft of letter that would transmit a preliminary permit. 
Mr. Dahl noted that the banks that would participate were 
widely separated geographically and, although all were rather substantial 
in size, each was a minimal force in international banking. At the 
present time only 10 banks were definite participants; there appeared 
to be some doubt whether the others would join in the venture. The 
draft letter would require that before the corporation commenced business 
the Board be fully informed regarding the stockholders, and the staff 
proposed to report such information so that the Board might review it. 
In further discussion, it was understood that the letter would 
specify that the stockholders and the amounts of their holdings must be 
stated in the articles of association. Other comments related to the 
fact that no special ceiling would be provided for the new corporation 
under the foreign credit restraint guidelines; the corporation's ceiling 
would have to be provided by transfer of portions of the quotas of its 
stockholding banks. Further, any special quotas requested by participating 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-13-
banks for purpose of transfer to the Edge corporation would be subject 
to the same restrictions as if they were requested for use by the 
individual banks. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the application was approved 
unanimously. A copy of the letter transmitted pursuant to this action 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
Voting on merger and holding company cases. Pursuant to 
questions raised by the Board, Mr. Hackley had discussed in memoranda 
dated February 12 and March 6, 1968, the procedures followed in recording 
votes on bank merger and bank holding company cases. Mr. Hackley had 
suggested the possibility of certain changes in the Board's internal 
rules of procedure, and a further suggestion had been made by Governor 
Maisel. 
Mr. Hackley commented that two principal questions appeared to 
be involved. The first was whether a Board member who was not present 
when a holding company or merger application was considered might have 
his vote recorded when the Board later considered the order and state-
ment implementing the decision. Mr. Hackley believed that such a practice 
would be undesirable. The second question was whether, as Governor Maisel 
has suggested, a member of the Board who participated in a decision could 
later change his vote, and Mr. Hackley leaned toward the view that in 
interest of certainty such a procedure should not be permitted. Neverthe-
less, if the Board should regard such a procedure as unobjectionable, 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-14-
there would appear to be no legal obstacle to adopting it, particularly 
if the changed vote did not change the nature of the Board's action. 
Mr. Hackley believed there should be a strong presumption 
against reconsideration of an action and urged that the Board adopt 
a policy of not opening up cases for reconsideration in the absence 
of good and sound reasons, such as the development of new information. 
He recommended (1) that a member not be recorded as voting unless he 
was present when the action was taken; (2) that there be no change in 
the vote of a member who was present unless the Board agreed to such 
a procedure, and then only if the Board's action would not be altered; 
and (3) that if a case was reconsidered, only those members present at 
the time of reconsideration be recorded, whether or not they were 
present at the time of the earlier decision. His memorandum of March 6 
had proposed a revision of the Board's internal rules of procedure 
that would carry out these recommendations and also would take account 
of minor organizational and procedural changes that had taken place 
since the rules were adopted. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the proposed rules 
were unnecessarily rigid. He believed that Board members typically 
had studied background information regarding an application on the 
agenda and had substantially formed their views before they came to 
the meeting. Therefore, it did not seem necessarily true that if a member 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-15-
was not present when a decision was made on the merits of an applica-
tion he had missed something vital to the case. As for saying that 
a vote should not be changed unless the case was reopened, he believed 
some recognition might be given to a member who had been uncertain 
what view to take. Perhaps in such a situation a member could be 
allowed to defer his vote. However, Governor Mitchell agreed with the 
idea of preserving the integrity of a decision if it had been one in 
which four or more members had concurred. 
Governor Daane remarked that he would not want to see the 
Board reopen a case unless new evidence came up, since he saw real 
danger in a situation in which decisions were in a constant state of 
flux. He did not believe that a member who was absent when a decision 
was made on the merits of an application should have the prerogative 
of registering his vote. He agreed with Governor Mitchell that a Board 
member usually made up his mind to a large extent on the basis of his 
study of the documentation, but there was a definite advantage in not 
allowing a vote to be recorded when a member had not heard the staff 
presentation or the views expressed by other members. 
With respect to the second question presented, Governor Daane 
did not think it was advisable to allow a member to change his vote, 
even if that did not change the decision. However, he felt a little 
more strongly than Mr. Hackley that if new evidence came to light there 
should be provision for reconsideration. 
If a member wanted to change 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-16-
his vote, it seemed likely that he had received new evidence, and it 
would be orderly procedure to request that the case be reconsidered 
to enable the other members to appraise the new evidence. 
Mr. Hackley pointed out that the proposed revision included 
a sentence stipulating that action taken by the Board would not be 
reconsidered except in unusual circumstances, such as the development 
of significant new information. Governor Daane expressed the view 
that that language spelled out the procedure a bit too precisely; 
the Board should not be locked in in advance of the issuance of an 
order and statement. Mr. Hackley observed that the next sentence of 
the paragraph in question would permit reconsideration upon request 
by a member of the Board. 
Governor Maisel commented that in earlier discussions it had 
been pointed out that a Board member's thinking could be influenced by 
the drafting of the statement in support of a decision. Therefore, a 
desire to change a vote could be based on a member's view of the 
plausibility of the proposed public explanation rather than upon the 
introduction of new information. There had been several cases recently 
on which considerations had been so evenly balanced that the Board had 
asked to have both affirmative and negative opinions drafted before 
it voted. Moreover, he believed reconsideration should be allowed 
merely at the request of a member of the Board, even if no unusual 
circumstances were present. 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-17-
Mr. Hexter observed that the implications of recording votes 
in bank holding company and merger cases were more serious from a 
legal standpoint than votes in some other areas, because decisions 
on such applications were more likely to lead to litigation. In his 
view, there was a substantial likelihood that a court would hold that 
permitting a Board member to vote without attending the meeting at 
which the decision was made vitiated the action of the Board. The 
structure of the Board contemplated the presence of the members and 
exchange of views. This was the whole concept of a quorum; otherwise, 
proxies could be given. Therefore, to say in principle that two 
members could hold a meeting and others vote afterward was legally 
questionable. 
The question with respect to a request for reconsideration was 
not as important as the first point, Mr. Hexter continued. However, 
it seemed to him that Governor Maisel's suggestion that a member be 
allowed to change his vote up until the issuance of the order and state-
ment would lose the principle advanced by Governor Daane that Board 
decisions should not be left in a constant state of flux. If votes were 
considered revokable (in the absence of Board agreement to reconsider), 
it 
would follow that a decision by five members could be reopened at 
a later meeting when five members were present whose balance of views 
leaned in an opposite decision. No action of the Board would be perma-
nent if at a later meeting a majority of the Board then present felt 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-18-
differently about it. The Board's decisions were scheduled when the 
largest number of members could be present, but there was much to be 
said for the view that once a decision was made the matter should not 
be reopened except upon Board agreement to reconsider. 
Governor Brimmer said that with respect to the first question 
he thought the basic criterion was that a member should be present in 
v 
>. S • c 
.. ; . .J clt i.. 
order to vote. However, he understood that a decision had no legal 
force until the order and statement were issued. Therefore, it seemed 
to him that the rules should not preclude reconsideration if a member 
requested it. He thought those instances would be so rare that it 
could be specified that if a decision was made by less than a majority 
of the Board, reconsideration would be allowed only at a time when the 
entire Board could be present. This would get around the question of a 
lesser number or a different balance of views being able to override a 
previous decision. 
Mr. Hackley observed that if a rule were adopted that a case 
could not be reconsidered until all members of the Board could be present, 
the situation might be frozen for a substantial length of time. Conceiv-
•i j;'. • r./ : n 
. • 
• 
.•;<•• 
... 
• < 
•• •• < - - ... 
ably, the Board could be vulnerable to a charge of undue delay. 
Governor Maisel suggested that that difficulty might be avoided 
by providing that at least four members of the Board must agree to 
reconsider a decision. Governor Mitchell concurred with that suggestion. 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-19-
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that a member of the 
Board should be able to change his vote at any time until the order 
was issued. He thought reconsideration should be allowed upon agree-
ment by four members to reconsider, and that when a change in vote 
would change a decision, the rule should call for automatic reconsid-
eration. 
Governor Robertson said that at this point he would favor 
allowing any menrber,' majority or minority, to change his view at any 
time until the decision was actually issued. If that change of view 
affected the decision, the case should be reconsidered. His fundamental 
disagreement was with the position that a member could not change his 
vote even though he had not felt complete conviction in his original 
position. 
Mr. Hackley remarked that the position Governor Robertson advo-
cated would present some procedural problems. Heretofore, consideration 
of the statement had been more or less a formality. The same members 
who had been present when the merits of a case were considered might not 
be, and frequently were not, present when issuance of the order and 
statement was authorized. Of course, if a case was reconsidered, those 
members present at that time could vote. 
Mr. Hackley then said that if he correctly understood the trend 
of the Board's thinking the rules should provide that reconsideration of 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-20-
a decision would not be permitted except upon the affirmative vote 
of four members. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that his proposed drafting 
would be consistent with Governor Robertson's position, namely, that 
a member might change his vote up to the time the statement was issued, 
but that if the change would alter the decision the case would be 
reopened on the affirmative vote of four members. Governor Sherrill 
commented that he would go one step further and suggest that if a 
change in vote would change the decision, reconsideration should be 
automa tic. 
Chairman Martin said the assumption had been heretofore—and 
he thought it should continue to be--that the issuance of the order and 
statement was basically a formality. The composition of attendance at 
that meeting was likely to be different from that at the meeting when 
the merits of the case had been debated. At either step, however, the 
affirmative vote of four members should ordinarily be required for 
action. 
After additional discussion, it was agreed that the proposed 
revision of the rules would be redrafted for the Board's further consid-
eration. 
Annual Report. There had been distributed a memorandum from 
Mr. Molony dated April 2, 1968, submitting to the Board a draft of the 
Review of Open Market Operations in Foreign Currencies prepared by the 

1 
J Aw 
4/8/68 
-21-
Special Manager of the System Open Market Account. As in recent years, 
it was proposed to include this review in the Board's Annual Report. 
The inclusion of the review of operations in foreign currencies 
in the Board's 1967 Annual Report was approved unanimously. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Annex building. Mr. Shepardson displayed preliminary plans 
developed by the architects for the Board's annex building pursuant 
to the discussion by the Board on July 28, 1967, especially with 
reference to the placement of facilities on the top floor of the annex 
building. He commented on the plans for such features as dining areas, 
a lounge, and a conference and/or dining room for use for meetings with 
lar8e groups or meals, possibly catered, to be served to such groups. 
During discussion, suggestions were made regarding possible 
alternative placement of the various features shown in the preliminary 
pla ns. There was general agreement that the principal dining facilities 
should be concentrated in the annex building, although questions were 
raised as to whether some part of the facilities in the present building 
should not be retained, particularly for use by Board members and guests 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Sherman 
Hackley, and Johnson left the room at this point. 
Transfer to Board Plan. In a memorandum dated March 27, 1968, 
Prepared at the request of Chairman Martin, Mr. Johnson had suitmarized 

4/8/68 
-22-
the major factors involved in the question of Governor Daane's transfer 
from the Civil Service Retirement System to the Board Plan of the Retire-
ment System of the Federal Reserve Banks. A copy of the memorandum is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
After discussion of the memorandum, Governor Daane remarked 
that he thought it would be advisable if a Board member who was a member 
of the Board Plan disqualified himself from participation in the consid-
eration of matters involving changes in the Board Plan when such matters 
came before the Board for final decision. If the Board felt that addi-
tional protection in that regard was desirable, such a procedure could 
be set up as a policy decision. 
Governor Brimmer observed that he had withdrawn from the Bank 
Plan of the Retirement System when he resigned from the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York and that he had no residual interest. Accordingly, it 
appeared to him that he should feel free to vote on Retirement System 
issues coming before the Board for decision. 
However, it was noted that if Governor Brimmer should move from 
the Civil Service Retirement System to the Board Plan of the Federal 
Reserve Retirement System, he could claim credit for his service with the 
Reserve Bank. 
Governor Sherrill commented that basically he felt that the 
conflict of interest issue was minimal. On the other hand, the ability 
to move back and forth was important and should carry little or no penalty. 

IZ'tiZ 
4/8/68 
-23-
Governor Robertson said that in his view a matter of policy 
was involved. A majority of the Board members should not be in a 
position where they could not vote on Retirement System matters when 
such matters required a final decision by the Board. The possibility 
was remote, but it could occur. On the matter now before the Board, 
while he would not vote against it, neither would he vote for it, and 
".-V.. 
• • 
accordingly he would abstain. 
Governor Mitchell commented that in his view a member of the 
Federal Reserve System should not be penalized simply because he came 
to Washington. He was not certain of his own interest in the matter 
now before the Board, and in view of the situation he would abstain. 
After further discussion, Governors Mitchell, Daane, and 
Brimmer withdrew from the meeting. 
The Board then concluded, with Governor Robertson abstaining, 
that there would be no objection to Governor Daane's transferring from 
the Civil Service Retirement System to the Board Plan of the Retirement 
System of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: On April 8, 1968, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board under dele-
gated authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 

1221 
4/8/68 
-24-
By the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
8 
Corporation regarding the application of 
Seminole State Bank, Seminole, Texas, for 
continuation of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Letter to Trenton State Bank, Trenton, Michi- 
9 
gan, approving an investment in bank premises. 
i: i- or'. > io c • 

BDARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. I 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4 / 8 / 6 8 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 10, 1968 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In reference to your letter of January 10, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
approximately 6,602 shares of Nederlandse Overzee Bank N.V. ("NOB"), 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands, at a cost of approximately US$2,200,000, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. In this connection, the Board also approves the purchase 
and holding of shares of NOB in excess of 15 per cent of your Corpora-
tion's capital and surplus. 
The Board also grants consent for your Corporation to ac-
quire, in exchange of the shares of NOB and 5,300 shares of Bankiers-
compagnie, N.V., The Hague, The Netherlands, approximately 12 per 
cent of the shares of a new holding company to be formed under the 
laws of The Netherlands. It is understood that the shares held by 
your Corporation in the new company will represent an investment of 
approximately US$3,688,000. The Board approves the acquisition of 
shares in the new holding company in excess of 10 per cent of your 
Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of NOB and the subsequent acquisition of shares of the new 
holding company is granted subject to the condition that neither NOB 
nor the holding company nor any subsidiaries or other affiliated 
companies shall engage in the business of underwriting, selling, or 
distributing securities in the United States, or in any other ac-
tivity in the United States not permissible for a Corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act engaged in 
banking. 

223 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
It is not the Board's current policy ordinarily to approve 
equity investments in developed countries of continental Western 
Europe. The Board has taken into account the fact that the develop-
ment of the proposed investment antedated the balance-of-payments 
measures announced on January 1, 1968. The foregoing consents are 
given with the understanding that the investments now being approved 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your Corporation, Morgan Guaranty 
Trust Company of New York, and Morgan Guaranty International Finance 
Corporation, and that due consideration is being given to the pri-
orities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

12<M 
BDARD D F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
D F T H E 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM4/8/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 10, 1968 
Continental International Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 15, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for Continental International 
Finance Corporation ("CIFC"), or Continental Bank International 
("OBI"), New York, New York, to purchase and hold, directly or in-
directly, up to 100 per cent of the outstanding stock of Banque 
Europeenne d'Outre-Mer S.A. ("BEOM"), Brussels, Belgium, at an aggre-
gate cost of approximately US$5,025,000, and to provide BEOM with a 
Complementary Endowment ("Dotation Complementaire") of US$1,000,000. 
It is understood that 75 per cent of BEOM's capital stock would be 
purchased within one year, and the balance may be purchased within 
three years. In this connection, the Board also approves the pur-
chase and holding of such shares in excess of 15 per cent of the 
capital and surplus of either CIFC or CBI. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of BEOM, directly or indirectly, by CIFC or CBI is granted 
subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That CIFC or CBI shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BEOM if BEOM at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the 
consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 
stock, or if BEOM establishes any branch or agency or 
takes any action or undertakes any operation in Belgium 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to CIFC or CBI; 
•'of cow 

Continental International 
Finance Corporation 
- 2 -
125)5 
(2) That CIFC or CBI shall not carry the shares acquired 
of BEOM at a net amount in excess of the proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of BEOM, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses; 
(3) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CIFC 
or CBI will furnish the Board with such reports re-
garding the activities of BEOM as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(4) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BEOM 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BEOM were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
above, so far. as they relate to restrictions on loans granted by 
BEOM in Belgium in the currency of that country. 
It is not the Board's current policy ordinarily to approve 
equity investments in developed countries of continental Western 
Europe. The Board has taken into account the fact that your applica-
tion antedated the balance-of-payments measures announced on January 1, 
1968. The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Com-
pany of Chicago, and Continental Bank International, New York, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

12<*6 
T E L E G R A M 
Item No. 3 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
4/8/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
April 8, 1968 
MERRITT - SAN FRANCISCO 
Board will interpose no objection to your Bank's 
purchase of property adjoining Los Angeles Branch building 
site in accordance with proposal described in your letter 
of March 21, 1968. In taking this action, the Board under-
stands that the subsurface oil and gas leases mentioned in 
• 
your letter will not restrict the use of the property for 
any building program that your Bank might later find desir-
able. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KENYON 

7 
BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
4/8/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 8, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment 
of salary to Messrs. Wagner and Wolkey as Assistant 
Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
at the annual rate of $16,500 each for the period May 1 
through December 31, 1968. This is the rate fixed by 
your Board of Directors as reported in your letter of 
March 28, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

J ^ V . 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
4/8/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
April 8, 1968. 
Board of Directors, 
Citizens Trust Company, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, the Board of Governors, acting 
under provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, grants 
permission to the Citizens Trust Company to maintain the same 
reserves against deposits as are required to be maintained by 
member banks not in reserve cities, effective with the first 
biweekly reserve computation period beginning after the date of 
this letter. 
< 
Citizens Trust Company has indicated its intention to 
take advantage of the potential increase in earnings resulting from 
the lower reserve requirements to take such steps as may be neces-
sary to improve its management. 
Your attention is called to the fact that the permission 
herein granted is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1299 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/8/^8 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Mr. James J. Saxon, 
c/o American Fletcher National Bank 
and Trust Company, 
Indianapolis, Indiana. 
Dear Mr. Saxon: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and Organization Certificate dated October 4, 1967, of 
American Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, on the 
understandings noted below, and there is enclosed a Preliminary 
Permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise such of the powers 
conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are 
incidental and preliminary to its organization. The Board has 
approved the Articles of Association with the understanding that 
Article TENTH will be amended to specify the holders of shares 
of the Corporation and the amounts of their holdings, and that the 
word "preliminary" be inserted before "permit" in Article ELEVENTH. 
It is understood that, prior to the issuance of a final 
permit to commence business, the Board of Governors will be fur-
nished with complete information as to the specific shareholder 
banks, directorate, management, and initial capitalization of the 
Corporation. 
In addition, except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of 
Regulation K, the Corporation may not exercise any of the other 
powers conferred by Section 25(a) until it has received a final 
permit from the Board authorizing it generally to commence business. 
Before the Board will issue its final permit to commence business, 
the President, Secretary, or Treasurer, together with at least three 
of the directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen 
of the United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital 
stock is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by cor-
porations the controlling interest of which is owned by citizens 
of the United States, chartered under the laws of the United States 
or of a State of the United States, or by firms or companies the 
controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
f«AL RE^ 

1300 
Mr. James J. Saxon 
-2-
States; and (3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in 
the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in 
in cash and that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash 
at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the 
Secretary or Treasurer shall certify to the payment of the remaining 
instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 
Your attention is drawn to the fact that under the guide-
lines for the foreign credit restraint program currently in effect, 
no provision is made for special ceilings for newly created corpora-
tions. However, the Federal Reserve System will be prepared to 
consider the transfer to a new corporation of a reasonable portion 
of the ceilings available to its stockholders. Accordingly, the 
foregoing approval is given with the understanding that any foreign 
loans and investments of the Corporation, including any such loans 
and investments acquired from a stockholder of the Corporation, 
will not exceed any ceiling established by the transfer from the 
stockholders. It is further understood that in making foreign loans 
and investments, within whatever ceiling is agreed, the Corporation 
will have due regard for the provisions of the guidelines issued 
January 1, 1968, relating to lending or investing in developed 
countries of continental Western Europe, and for the other priorities 
specified by the guidelines. The Corporation should report separately 
from its stockholders to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
The foregoing understandings may be changed or modified 
at any time that the foreign credit restraint program is changed or 
modified. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

1301 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
I ' 
April 10, 1968 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested 
in it by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, 
has this day approved the Articles of Association dated 
October 4, 1967, of AMERICAN OVERSEAS BANKING CORPORATION, 
duly filed with said Board of Governors, subject to the 
understanding contained in the Board's letter of even date, 
and that AMERICAN OVERSEAS BANKING CORPORATION is authorized 
to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said 
Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to 
commence business in accordance with the provisions of said 
Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant 
thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

GUARD OF QQVCRNORQ 
J 3 0 < * 
o r ™e 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
A/8/68 
C o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
Date ^
h 
27,1968 
of Governors 
Subject; Governor Daane's transfer from 
u 
Civil Service Retirement to the Board 
EiJ. Johnson 
Retirement Plan 
At Chairman Martin's request the following summary <5f the major 
Se
Ct°rs involved in the question of Governor Daane's transfer from the Civil 
xce Retirement System to the Board Retirement Plan has been prepared for 
e Board's information. 
the p 
Governor Daane had approximately 21 years of applicable service with 
of t-i6 
Reserve Banks prior to his appointment as Assistant to the Secretary 
8 
e treasury in July 1960. As of March 18, 1968, he had approximately 7 years, 
fed 
creditable service under the Civil Service Retirement System. 
$ys^ra* Reserve Bank service is not transferable to the Civil Service Retirement 
Kes e m' c o n v ersely, Federal Government service is not transferable to .the Federal 
Keti^0 B a n k Retirement System. 
However, the Board Plan of the Federal Reserve 
ti>- r e m e n t System accepts both Civil Service and Reserve Bank service for re-
c e n t credit. 
Reti 
Should Governor Daane be required to remain in the Civil Service 
Ket.tenient System he would have two annuities: 
(1) from the Federal Reserve 
aHd r^ m G n t System based upon his average annual salary prior to July 18, 1960, 
Tfe 
' from the Civil Service Retirement System based upon his service at the 
under
Ury department and the Board of Governors. 
Estimated retirement benefits 
ttons
 V a r i°us service possibilities, using present salary and retirement regula-
» are: 
Assuming Governor Daane remains under CSC Retirement System: 
Age at retirement 
5 5 % ^ 
62-2/ 
65-^ 
Total creditable 
service (CSC) 4/ 
Factor 
Assumed Hi-5 
Single-life annuity 
Bank Plan deferred 
annuity 
13-6-14 
19-11-19 
22-11-19 
.232500 
.360833 
.420833 
$29,500 
$29,500 
$29,500 
$ 6,864-2/ 
$10,644 
$12,420 
$ 3,267 
$ 5,390 
$ 6,866 
Total Retirement 
Income 
$10,131 
$16,034 
$19,286 

to. „ 
1 3 0 3 
Board of Governors 
-2-
t|»" 
Should his service in both the Civil Service Retirement Plan and 
r * Federal Reserve Bank Plan be transferred to the Board Plan, estimated 
tirement benefits would be: 
Board Retirement Plan: 
Age at retirement 
622J 
• 65^ 
* 
Total creditable 
service 4/ 
34-7-6 
41-0-12 
44-0-12 
Factor 
.654167 
.782500 
.80 
Assumed Hi-5 
$29,500 
$29,500 
$29,500 
' 
. 
Single-Life Annuity 
$19,296 
$23,088 
$23,604 
1/ Expiration of present term. 
(1-31-74) 
2/ Assumes Governor Daane would be appointed to a full 
14-year term at expiration of present term. 
3/ Deferred to age 62 due to less than 30 year creditable 
service. 
4/ 
Computation of creditable service: 
FRB Richmond Service Ended 
60-4-30 
FRB Richmond Service Began 
39-6-26 
Total FRB Richmond Service 
20-10-5 
ts 
FRB Minneapolis Service Ended 
60-7-17 
FRB Minneapolis Service Began 60-5- 1 
Total FRB Minneapolis Service 
0- 2-17 
. Total FRSystem Service 
21-0-22 
U.S. Treasury Service Ended 
63-11-28 
U.S. Treasury Service Began 
60- 7-18 
Total Treasury Service 
3-4-11 
FRBoard Service Ends 
74- 1-31 
FRBoard Service Began 
63-11-29 
Total Board Service at 
expiration of present 
term a/ 
. 
• 
10- 2- 3 
34- 7- 6 
a/ At expiration of present term, Governor Daane would 
be 55 years, 6 raonths, and 26 days of age. 

Board of Governors 
- 3 -
13 fM 
Up to the present time, a Board Member has been considered eligible 
0nly for membership in the Civil Service Retirement System, possibly for the 
Jeason that there has not been a previous case similar to Governor Daane's. 
Wever, the Board permits any member (other than Board Members) of its 
^0ff who is in a similar situation (i.e., in the Civil Service Retirement 
"stem but with previous Reserve ,ank service) to transfer to the Board Plan 
thereby consolidate all previ /us service in one retirement system. It 
e m s equitable to provide the sa.ie opportunity to a Board Member. 
Cq 
# 
The Civil Service Commission (Andrew H. Ruddock, Director of the 
•Mission's Bureau of Retirement and Insurance) has stated that, under 
Re* t e r m s o f the Civil Service Retirement Act (Section 2(b)) the Federal 
g Q
S e r v e has the authority to extend the coverage of the Board Plan to 
a r d Members even though they are now covered by the Civil Service Retire-
e 
System, unless the Board Member has immediate Civil Service annuity • 
lement. 'Governor Daane does not have such entitlement; therefore, 
®ay be extended the coverage of the Board Plan. 
. 
. \ 
Du 
A legal opinion has been furnished (March 25, 1965) by John V. 
^ n can of Patterson, Belknap & Webb, New York (legal counsel to the Federal 
Syst^6 R e t i r e i n e n t System) that the Rules and Regulations of the Retirement 
Gov C m a r e sufficiently broad to include the Members of the Board of 
U !5 n o r s within the definitions of those covered by the Retirement System 
hey withdrew from the Federal Civil Service Retirement System. 
quo • 
T h c Board's Legal Division (October 16, 1967) has examined the 
of whether a Board Member may transfer from the Civil Service 
(g l r c m cnt System to the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks 
rea 
Retirement Plan) and believes that there appears to be no legal 
a Bo°n t 0 r c s t rict Board Members from the Board Retirement Plan and, thus, 
Member with prior Reserve Bank service could transfer to the Eoard 
• 
Legal Division, however, states that there is also a policy 
involved concerning a Board Member's participation in a Retirement 
tnay
 0ver which the Board has final authority respecting benefits and this 
e undesirable because of conflicts of interest. 
as 
The conflicts of interest are probably more theoretical than real, 
of . e Board Retirement Plan Rules and Regulations provide that employees 
b5n
 
0 Board who are members of the Retirement System are accorded financial 
C i v l ]
U s comparable to those granted to employees who are subject to the 
k°ard,SerV*CC Retirement Act. The Board's actions in conncction with the 
to 
® Retirement Plan, therefore, are ratifications of actions by Congress 
vise the Civil Service Retirement Act. 

13y5 
Board of Governors 
-4-
g 
With regard to conflicts of interest, Mr. Duncan, of Patterson, 
Knap & Webb, in his 1965 opinion, stated "in general, we feel that there 
Gov 
n ° 
conflict of interest if the member of the Board of 
^ ernors who became a member of the Retirement System did not vote or act 
a member of the Board of Goverrors or as a Trustee of the Retirement 
em upon any matter relating s< lely to himself. We do not, however, 
of 1 S S 
°Pi-niori from a policy point of view in regard to the desirability 
Syst
etting members of the Board o. Governors become members of the Retirement 
the em* 
w c u ^ 
a P P e a r that they have been eligible to become members of 
e Retirement System as early as 1944." 
Since the question of a Board Member transferring to the Board 
Me^k m e n t Plan first was discussed several years ago, one of the Board 
*nt,erS 
r e a ched an age where he has immediate Civil Service annuity 
^°ard^ernent* 2nC* i S ' therefore, ineligible to transfer. There are now two 
Q0 
"embers'who have Federal Reserve Bank service who can transfer: 
Mtnngn°r ^ a ane, with about 22 years, 5 months' service at Richmond and x 
y0r^ aP°lis; and Governor Brimmer, with about 3 years, 2 months at New 
Chairman Martin discussed the matter of Governor Daane's transfer 
F-U 
the
 
n e Civil Service Retirement System to the Board of Governors Plan of 
C0rr . G r al Reserve Retirement System with Chairman Macy of the Civil Service 
tta
 
Ssion, vho advised Mr. Martin that he could see no reason why this 
bfer could not be made. 
71 

*AL RE^. 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
OF THE 
item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 4/8/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
13 OG 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P O N D E N C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHoritys 
Reference is made to your letter of April 3, 1968, con-
cerning the application of Seminole State Bank, Seminole, Texas, 
for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations has stated on behalf of the Board of Governors 
that the 1967 examination of subject bank revealed a fairly high 
volume of criticized loans. Management was urged to strengthen 
loan and collection policies. 
He also has stated that there have been no other cor-
rective programs urged upon the bank or agreed to by it which 
have not been fully consummated, and there are no programs that 
the Board would advise be incorporated as conditions of admitting 
the bank to membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

• 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
13 U7 
Item No. 9 
4/8/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 18, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Trenton State Bank, 
Trenton, Michigan. 
p,
ll 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of the Federal 
Reserve Act, the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves an investment in bank premises of $500,736 by Trenton 
State Bank, Trenton, Michigan, for the construction of a new branch 
building. 
Upon completion of the new building, it is understood 
that your bank premises are all to be transferred to your wholly-
owned bank premises affiliate, which will borrow $600,000 from a 
source other than subject bank to partially finance the proposed 
transactions. 
H 
The present and proposed investment in bank premises is 
substantial in relation to your bank's total capital structure. 
You are urged to consider various means to strengthen your capital 
structure, including additional sales of new capital stock. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
hi 
