MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 21, 1969 

31 SO 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 21, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:45 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Personnel matter. Governor Robertson referred to information 
received last week by Chairman Martin to the effect that the Internal 
Revenue Service had been investigating the failure of Milton W. Schober, 
Assistant Director in the Division of Supervision and Regulation, to 
file Federal income tax returns in 1964 and 1965 within the prescribed 
time and that this might result in an indictment. 
Governor Robertson said that he had discussed the matter with 
Mr. Schober, with Mr. Hackley present, and that the facts seemed clear. 
Mr. Schober had failed to file the returns in question in a timely manner, 
apparently because of mental strain attributable to family problems, but 
he had voluntarily filed them later and had remitted the appropriate tax 
payments, including interest due. Mr. Schober had offered to submit 
his resignation, but at Governor Robertson's suggestion he had instead 
prepared a statement for the Board's information. Governor Robertson 
then read the statement, which has been placed in the Board's confidential 
files. 

3ig± 
10/21/69 
-2-
Governor Robertson also read a supplemental memorandum submitted 
by Mr. Schober indicating that he had not filed State income tax returns 
for the years in question in a timely manner, but that here again he had 
voluntarily filed such returns at a later date and had made the appropriate 
payments. This memorandum has likewise been placed in the Board's files. 
Governor Robertson stated that there was to be an arraignment on 
the Federal tax charges tomorrow. In reply to questions, he attested 
to the high quality of Mr. Schober*s performance as a member of the Board's 
staff in charge of the truth in lending function and said he would recom-
mend that the Board take no action, at least at this time. If the 
arraignment resulted in publicity and questions should be asked, he 
would reply along the lines that according to the charges placed against 
Mr. Schober, as the Board understood them, he had willfully and knowingly 
failed to make income tax returns for two years in violation of a section 
of the United States Code, but that Mr. Schober later did file the returns 
and had paid the appropriate penalties. In reply to another question, 
members of the Board indicated that they were unaware that any similar 
case had occurred at the Board or at any Federal Reserve Bank. 
After further discussion, Governor Robertson's recommendation 
was accepted and it was agreed that the Board should take no action at 
this time. However, it was understood that Mr. Hackley would review 
whatever further information on the matter might become available and 
would keep the Board advised to such extent as seemed appropriate. 

10/21/69 
-3-
The following members of the staff then entered the room: 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Messrs. Coyne and Nichols, Special Assistants 
to the Board 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Appropriate supporting staff of the respective divisions 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Columbus National Bank of 
Rhode Island, Providence, Rhode Island, with Rhodes National Bank, also 
of Providence, a transaction designed to facilitate acquisition of the 
existing bank by a newly-formed holding company, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
stating that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 

10/21/69 
-4-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, N.A., Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina, and Citizens Bank & Trust Company of Andrews, Andrews, North 
Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
There is little effective competition between Wachovia 
Bank and Trust Company, N.A., and Citizens Bank & Trust 
Company of Andrews, and potential for increased competition 
appears somewhat limited. The proposed merger would expand 
the operations of the State's largest bank into five addi-
tional counties and further increase the already high degree 
of concentration of banking resources in North Carolina. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposal would be 
adverse. 
As transmitted, the report incorporated the substance of an 
analysis by the Banking Markets Section with respect to the banking 
structure of North Carolina, particularly the increasing concentration 
of banking resources in the hands of a few large banks. 
Other actions. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made available 
to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the United States Attorney for the 
1 
Southern District of New York advising that 
the Board had authorized Peter Keir, Assistant 
Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, 
to testify as an expert witness in the trial 
of United States of America v. Everett A. Whorl, 
in which the latter was charged with violation 
of Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose 
of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks, by filing 
a false purpose statement. 

3184 
10/21/69 
-5-
Item No. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
2 
Banks indicating that certain draft bills 
implementing recommendations contained in the 
report of the System Task Force to Study Problems 
of Regulatory and Supervisory Relations with 
Member Banks, dated August 29, 1969, would be taken 
into account in the formulation of the Board1s 
legislative program. 
Letter to the Assistant Secretary of the Federal 
3 
Advisory Council submitting topics for discussion 
at the forthcoming meeting of the Council. 
Item No. 3, as transmitted, included additional questions 
agreed upon during today's discussion. 
Bank financing of corporate takeovers. In a letter dated 
August 22, 1969, Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency 
Committee had requested any information the Board or Federal Reserve 
Banks might have that would bear on a possible study by the Committee 
of bank financing of corporate takeovers. In a memorandum dated 
October 17, 1969, the Division of Research and Statistics and the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation noted that there had been no 
studies in that area at the Reserve Banks, but that the Capital Markets 
Section had undertaken a study of data relating to cash tender offers. 
In a proposed reply to Chairman Patman, the Divisions summarized the 
preliminary findings of that study. 
Members of the Board expressed general satisfaction with the 
approach taken in the draft reply; however, discussion developed agreement 

3 1 9 5 
10/21/69 
-6-
on relatively modest changes in particular passages. Question was 
raised whether the staff study in its entirety or a summary thereof 
should be made available to the Committee. It was the staff consensus, 
which the Board accepted, that the study as such should not be released 
since it was preliminary in nature, the principal findings were reflected 
in the draft reply, and there was not a unanimity of staff opinion on 
certain of the analytical interpretations. 
Additional comments were directed to technicalities that 
permitted the financing, outside the margin regulations, of certain 
types of stock acquisitions. There was some discussion of the possibility 
of legislative or other moves to close these loopholes, and it was 
understood that the staff would continue to study the matter. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to Chairman Patman 
in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
St. Louis personnel matter. In a memorandum dated October 17, 
1969, the Division of Personnel Administration recommended approval of 
the payment of salary to Jerry L. Jordan (now Assistant Vice President) 
as Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis at the rate 
fixed by the Bank's board of directors. 
Members of the Board commented on the unusually rapid advancement 
of Mr. Jordan within the Bank's organization, and some reservations were 
expressed with respect to the need for taking action on the present 
proposal immediately. 

3 1 8 6 
r }! ' . a 
10/21/69 
-7-
Accordingly, there was agreement with a suggestion that action 
be deferred pending discussion of the matter with President Francis 
by the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
Plans. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
U/tn 
V 
Deputy Secretary 

B O A R D DF 
G O V E R N • R 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
10/21/69 
WASHINGTON, 
U. C. ?.0b"5! 
A o n n r . s s 
d t f i r i a l 
c c i r u e s h d h d c n c 
r n 
T H E 
H O A R D 
October 22, 1969 
Robert M. Morgenthau, Esq., 
United States Attorney, 
United States Courthouse, 
Foley Square, 
_ ^ 
New York, New York. 
10007 
Dear Mr. Morgenthau: 
In response to your letter of October 13, 1969, the 
Board has authorized Mr. Peter Keir, Assistant Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics, to testify as cn expert witness in 
the trial of United States of America v. Everett A. Whorl. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Fcrrestal, 
.Assistant Secretary. 
Mr. Keir's correct title was Associate Adviser. 

• •'CK .Cby* •. 
U-^ A: :::: .v.'w 
m
m
: 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
• P T H E 
10/21/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E 3 P • Nl O E N C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 21, 1969 
Dear Sir: 
This refers to the Report of the System Task Force to Study 
Problems of Regulatory and Supervisory Relations with Member Banks, 
dated August 29, 1969, with which the Conference of Presidents 
generally concurred at its meeting on September 8, 1969. The Report 
contains recommendations for specific legislation with respect to 
intrastate taxation of national banks, interstate operations of State-
chartered banks, and the treatment of capital notes and debentures 
and undivided profits for purposes of certain statutory limitations 
based upon capital and surplus. 
As you know, the Eoard is on record as endorsing proposed 
legislation that: would make a national bank subject to the same taxes 
as those imposed upon State-chartered banks in the State in which the 
national bank is located: and, in this connection, the Board found the 
Task Force's Report particularly helpful in the preparation of testimony 
before the Senate Banking and Currency Committee in September with respect 
to such legislation. 
As indicated in the Board's letter of August 29, 1969, the Board 
believes that national banks ana State member banks should be on an equal 
basis in respect to interstate operations, buc the Board continues to 
reserve judgment as to the most desirable legislative approach to accom-
plish this objective. Nevertheless, the Task Force's draft bill with 
respect to this matter, as well as the draft bill relating to capital 
notes and debentures and undivided profits, will be given careful consid-
eration by the Eoard in formulating the Board's legislative program. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, / 
Deputy Secretary, 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3 1 ^ 9 
B O A R D • ?=" G D V E R N n R S 
Item No. 3 
10/21/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Mr. William J. Korsvik, 
Assistant Secretary, 
Federal Advisory Council, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Bill: 
The Board of Governors s'uggests the topics shown 
on the attached list for discussion at the meeting of the 
Federal Advisory Council on November 17, 1969, and the 
joint meeting of the Board and the Council on November 18. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C; 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 21, 1969. 
Very truly yours 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 
• t 
Attachment. 

Suggested Topics for Discussion at Meeting of 
Federal Advisory Council on November 17-18, 1969 
Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise cne general economic outlook 
to mid-1970? What is its impression of the present state 
of business and consumer psychology? 
B. What are the Council's impressions regarding business plans 
for capital expenditures and inventory investment? To what 
extent is such planning being influenced by (1) the avail-
ability and cost of money, (2) prospects for prices and 
costs, and (3) the outlook for future,product demand? 
C. To what extent do State and local governments appear to be 
meeting their financing needs for capital improvements 
through short-term borrowings, including bank loans? How 
does the Council appraise the outlook for capital spending 
and financing by State and local governments? 
D. How would the Council assess the present situation and 
outlook in the market for mortgage financing? Are there 
significant differences as regards financing for homes, 
apartments, and commercial buildings? 
Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the probable strength 
of business loan demand in the period ahead? How has loan 
demand during the early fall differed from prior expectations? 
B. What are the devices that banks have used in attempting to 
ration credit to prospective customers, and what success has 
been achieved? Are rationing efforts being extended into 
the consumer instalment credit field? 
C. To what extent are medium-size and smaller banks around the 
country being affected by monetary restraint and how have 
they been adjusting? 

3131 
-2-
D. How does the Council assess the prospects for further 
development of non-deposit sources of funds by banks 
and their affiliates? 
Is there any evidence that the 
large increase in commercial paper issuance over the 
past year has affected the absorptive capacity of 
this market for the paper of either banks or other 
issuers? 
E. Is tha current heavy use of the commercial paper market 
by corporations likely to abate substantially once 
Regulation Q ceilings no longer limit the ability of 
banks to acquire CD funds? 
F. How does the Council view the long-run outlook for the 
use by banks of a prime rate? Does the Council agree 
with recent comments in che banking industry that 
present practices with respect to the prime rate are 
obsolete? 
Balance of payments. 
' 
# . 
A. What in the Council's judgment is uhe outlook over coming 
months for U.S. bank borrowing of Euro-dollars through 
foreign branches? 
B. What effects has the uncertainty about the German mark 
over che past six months or so had on flows of liquid 
funds and credit from the United States? 
What are -he Council's views on monetary and credit policy 
under cur::ent circumstances? 

W.JL 
Item No. 4 
BOARD nr GOVERNORS 
10/21/69 
a r t h 
e 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
r 
1 - 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C . 
S O S 5 I 
r ' ''A1 • 
" 
-
' . ^ A L 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 27, 1969. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This responds to your letter of August 22, 1969, in which you 
ask for information concerning any inquiries, studies, or observations 
v'bich the Board or any of the Federal Reserve Banks might have that would 
kear on a possible study by your Committee of bank financing of corporate 
takeovers. 
It may be helpful to remark at the outset that the Board's stat-
utory responsibilities in this area are limited, of course, to (1) deter-
mining whether excessive, credit is being used in a destabilizing fashion 
to purchase or carr/ securities in connection with takeovers, and promul-
gating appropriate regulations if such excessive use of credit is found, 
e|nd (2) through the supervisory function, determining whether bank loans 
f°r this purpose ar^ made in accordance with sound banking principles and 
compliance with the provisions of Regulation U, "Credit by Banks for 
the Purpose of Purciasing or Carrying Margin Stocks." The function of 
determining whether, and. in what way, it is socially or economically 
J*esirabie for corporate control to be acquired by means of takeovers has 
been entrusted by Congress to other agencies, and to the Department of 
Justice. 
The Board has for some time been concerned about the policy 
l™Plications of the use of bank credit in corporate takeovers. 
In a 
better of October 31, 1967, to the Honorable Harley 0. Staggers, Chairman 
the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, in connection with 
510, a bill providing for disclosure in connection with "tender" offers 
acquire corporate, securities (subsequently enacted as P.L. 90-439), 
Board urged thai, the disclosure requirements be expanded to apply to 
^ank lenders. 
In this letter, the Board stated that 
"A significant amount of credit may flow into the secu-
rities markets through this channel, which has escaped 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
PA O'l 
ujt. fO 
margin regulation for technical reasons. Such credit 
could be brought within the scope of margin regulation 
under existing law, but in order to reach an informed 
conclusion in this area it would be helpful if the 
Board knew a good deal more than it does at present 
about the amount and character of such credit." 
Since enactment of P.L. 90-439, tender offer filings have been scrutinized 
from the credit aspect by staff of both the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion (SEC) and the Board. 
Analysis of fifty-four cash tender offers reported to the SEC 
between July 30, 1968 and March 1, 1969, revealed that of the total of 
more than $1.4 billion involved in these offers, $1.1 billion, or nearly 
80 per cent of all funds was provided by bank loans. Of this $1.1 billion 
of bank loans, $40 million was known to be secured (but not by stock), and 
$50 million was obtained from foreign banks. Nearly 21 per cent of total 
bank borrowing was used to support 39 tender offers for stock traded over-
the-counter or on regional exchanges (two of the target companies were 
listed on the Midwest Exchange), and most of the remaining bank financing 
was used in connection with offers for ten issues listed on the New York 
Stock Exchange. 
Regulation U applies only to those loans by banks which are for 
the purpose of purchasing or carrying stocks that are. listed on national 
securities exchanges, or that appear on the Board's List of CTC Margin 
Stocks, and which are also collateralized by some stock. In 37 instances, 
the bank credit was used to finance acquisition of stock that was not so 
listed and none of the companies would have been on the OTC Margin List. 
In the remaining instances, (involving some 75 per cent of the credit 
extended, bv domestic banks) almost none of the-, credit was directly collat-
eralized by stock. 
Credit involved in corporate takeovers may be deemed destabilizing 
for either of two reasons: (1) because they iorm part of a broad group of 
loans which are 
the aggregate applied to stock market activity of a 
destabilizing nature, or (2) because this particular sort of loan in 
itself tends to be destabilizing. The above cata suggest that in order 
t o bring most corporate takeover loans under regulation U as part of the 
broad spectrum of all securities credit, the Foard would have to require, 
Pursuant to its authority under section 7(d) cf the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, that such loans be collateralized. Such action in itself 
Would single out takeover loans as needing special treatment. 
This treatment might be justified by the consideration that 
unsecured loans were originally exempted from margin requirements because 
°f the difficulty in identifying the purpose of a loan where the collateral 
did not include any stock. This consideration would not apply to many 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 3 -
31g4 
takeover loans where the purpose is well-known ;o the lender. In some 
cases, though, borrowers use working capital for takeover purposes, and 
then borrow to replace the working capital. 
Oil the other hand, special regulation of takeover loans would 
give large, well capitalized corporations an even greater advantage than 
they have at present, since they would be able to supply other collateral 
in addition to the stock, while smaller corporations would be unable to 
finance takeovers on a regulated basis. Thus, in addition to the fact 
that special regulation of takeover loans would bias available credit in 
favor of corporations which are already large, it is questionable whether 
the total volume of credit would be seriously affected by such special 
regulation. 
In addition, while not strictly relevant to the Board's 
consideration of the matter, it should be pointed out that takeovers 
financed by means of stock, debentures, or similar securities would be 
unaffected, and action requiring bank takeover credit to be collateralized 
wight merely result in encouraging greater use of such alternative methods. 
The second reason for extending margin regulation to unsecured 
takeover credit would be a conclusion that such loans in themselves tend 
to be destabilizing. A preliminary review of the matter indicates that 
the aspect of such credit which chiefly tends to be destabilizing is the 
financing of purchases in the open market by the offering company during 
the period when a tender offer is outstanding. Such purchases will shortly 
be forbidden under SEC Rule 10b-13, which becomes effective November 10, 
I960. Should experience under the rule suggest' that destabilizing influence 
continue to be felt from the impact of offering companies using bank credit 
in takeover bids, further action should be considered. 
It is hoped that the above observations will be of some assist-
ance to the Committee. The Board and its staff will, of course, be glad 
to help the Committee in any way possible in its study of this matter. 
Sincerely yours 
o & w D f y v * \ 
1 
Will. McC. Martin, Jr. 
