FR 609 
'(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 26, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you" were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
a-
(
M
E
l 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

737 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 26, 1971. 
The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
JL/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
1/ 
The usual weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials used in connection with the review 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
staff briefings. 
""During the review, requests were made for (a) a memorandum on the 
findings of recent surveys of consumer sentiment, and (b) a memorandum on 
o 
apparent causes of the deterioration in the U.S. trade balance over the 
Past several months. 
The ensuing report by Mr. Cardon on legislative matters included 
reference to the most recent developments ^ithin the Congress in an effort 
J./ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present 

738 
3/26/71 
-2-
to obtain a temporary extension of the interest rate ceiling authority. 
It appeared now that action was likely to be taken early next week. 
In 
view of the reported developments it had been decided not to send the 
letter urging adoption by the House of S. J. Res. 55 that was approved 
by the Board yesterday, unless such a letter should be requested. 
Governor Mitchell reported that other members of the Interagency Coordi-
nating Committee on Bank Regulation had expressed the view last week that 
action probably would be taken by the Congress quite soon and that interim 
regulatory amendments would not be necessary. 
Members of the staff other than Mr. Holland then withdrew. 
Governor Robertson reported on recent developments in the case 
of Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, which he had been handling 
as the Board member with delegated authority to deal with problem banks. 
He indicated a further meeting with the principals in the case would take 
Place next week, and he read to the Board the substance of a letter which 
he intended to address to Bank of the Commonwealth concerning the condition 
°f and borrowing by the bank. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
