'R 609 
Minutes for 
November 4, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
jr., 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
: H 
t • • 

vJO < JL 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 4, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 

O S ? i fa 
11/4/68 
-2-
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Heyde, Lynch, Mertz, and Via of 
the Legal Division 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Bennett of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Miss McShane and Messrs. Achor, Burton, Goodfellow, 
and Karsten of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Mandel of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Bouck, Consultant 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Marine Midland International Corporation, 
1 
New York, New York, approving amendments to its 
articles of association to change its home office 
location to 250 Park Avenue, New York, New York. 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corpora- 
2 
tion, New York, New York, granting consent to its 
continuing to hold the stock of Banco Lar Brasileiro 
S.A., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, after acquisition by 
the latter of the stock of Centuria S.A. Credito 
Financiamento e Investimento, Porto Alegre, Brazil. 
Letter to Bank of America, New York, New York, grant- 
3 
ing consent (1) to its acquiring additional shares of 
Amerikan-Turk Dis Ticaret Bankasi S.A., Istanbul, 
Turkey, and (2) to its continuing to hold stock of 
Banca d
1America e d'ltalia, Milan, Italy, after 
acquisition by the latter of additional stock of 
Amerikan-Turk Dis Ticaret Bankasi S.A. 

0 T.o^l 
o o / 
11/4/68 
-3-
Item No 
4-5 
Letters to Wachovia International Investment 
Corporation, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
(1) granting consent to its continuing to hold 
stock of Fomento de Inversiones, S.A., Mexico 
City, Mexico, acquired under a rights offering 
and to its acquisition of additional shares; 
and (2) commenting on the manner in which stock 
was acquired in Duque, S.A., but interposing no 
objection to the continued holding of that stock. 
Letter to Bankers International Corporation, New 
6 
York, New York, granting consent to its acquiring 
directly and indirectly, through Bankers Inter-
national (Luxembourg) S.A., Luxembourg, stock of 
Bankers Trust-Italia S.p.A., Rome, Italy. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Investment 
7 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to its acquiring shares of Compania Minera del Sur 
S.A., La Paz, Bolivia. 
Application of Marine Midland Trust Company (Items 8 and 9). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on October 14, 1968, of the application of Marine 
Midland Trust Company of Rockland County, Nyack, New York, to merge 
with Lafayette Bank and Trust Company of Suffern, Suffern, New York. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 8 and 9. 
Travel accident insurance (Item No. 10). On October 14, 1968, 
the Board approved a travel accident insurance program for the Federal 
Reserve Banks and requested the Division of Personnel Administration 
to explore the feasibility of extending the travel accident coverage 
to Board members and Board employees. There had now been distributed 

11/4/68 
-4-
a memorandum dated October 28, 1968, from the Division of Personnel 
Administration recommending that the Reserve Bank travel accident 
insurance policy be extended to include Board members and Board 
employees under the terms outlined in the memorandum. 
Unanimous approval was given to the Division's recommendation. 
A copy of the letter sent to Marsh 6c McLennan, Incorporated, Chicago, 
Illinois, pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 10. 
Application of Middle Tennessee Bank. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated October 24, 1968, and 
other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an 
application of The Middle Tennessee Bank, Columbia, Tennessee, to 
acquire the assets and assume the deposit liabilities of The Hampshire 
Bank, Hampshire, Tennessee. The staff and Reserve Bank recommendations 
were favorable. 
There had also been distributed a memorandum dated November 1, 
1968, from the Office of the Secretary relating to presentation of the 
application in an abbreviated form. This approach had been developed 
in response to comments at the Board meeting on October 9, 1968, when 
it was suggested that the staff explore ways of avoiding extensive 
repetition in the documentation of merger and bank holding company 
cases. 
Mr. Forrestal noted that the abbreviated format would be used 
only in those cases where the Reserve Bank memorandum was adequate and 
there was no serious disagreement as to the conclusions reached. 

o o t h 
11/4/68 
-5-
Comments by members of the Board reflected general agreement 
with the abbreviated presentation, subject to the understanding that 
not all cases were suitable for such treatment. 
Following comments by Mr. Egertson in supplementation of the 
material that had been distributed, the Tennessee application was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that an appropriate order 
and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Currency and coin services (Item No. 11). At the Board meeting 
on April 18, 1968, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations was 
requested to determine the extent to which currency and coin services 
differed among the Federal Reserve Banks and branches. This was with 
the understanding that on the basis of such information Governor 
Mitchell would suggest possible policy considerations. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from Governor 
Mitchell dated October 30, 1968, recommending that an attached uniform 
statement of policy on currency and coin services be forwarded to the 
Conference of Presidents for review and comments. A proposed letter 
to the Chairman of the Conference was also attached, as well as a 
memorandum from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated 
October 23, 1968, summarizing the findings with respect to variations 
in services. 
In commenting on the matter at today's meeting, Governor 
Mitchell stated that he had had several discussions with Mr. Farrell 

O O / O 
11/4/68 
-6-
and his staff as to what might be done to improve the present arrange-
ments. His suggestion, with which the Division concurred, was to refer 
a set of proposals to the Conference of Presidents for consideration. 
Any move toward uniformity should have one underlying objective--to 
enhance the value of System membership by offering services to member 
banks that would not be available to nonmember banks without charge. 
The proposed statement of policy would allow considerable flexibility 
on the part of a Reserve Bank in meeting requests of member banks for 
wrapped coin. It would also help to make uniform the practices of the 
Reserve Banks in absorbing the cost of shipments to and from member 
banks and would extend to member banks located in Reserve Bank cities 
the free delivery service now enjoyed by banks outside such cities. 
It would result in a uniform policy for serving mutual savings banks 
and would permit the recovery by the Reserve Banks of the expense 
incurred in furnishing currency and coin to nonmember and mutual sav-
ings banks. The Reserve Banks would not be called upon to perform 
excessive processing of currency and coin such as would result from 
banks sending to the Reserve Banks frequent or unproven deposits. All 
of these issues were, of course, of vital concern to the Reserve Banks. 
For that reason he thought it advisable to send the proposed policy 
statement to the Conference of Presidents for review. 
Mr. Farrell recalled that the traditional treatment of these 
issues had been to leave them to the discretion of the individual 

» l I 
I y* 
o d / / 
11/4/68 
-7-
Reserve Banks, with the result that services had not been uniform 
throughout the Sys tem. The present proposal would indicate to the 
Presidents that the Board was not happy with the situation. If the 
Presidents did not agree with the proposed solution, then by inference 
it would be up to them to devise an alternative solution. 
Governor Daane said that he was in favor of turning the ques-
tion back to the Presidents, recognizing that the problem had a long 
history, and Chairman Martin remarked that in following this course the 
Board should avoid being too peremptory. Governor Daane then made 
certain suggestions to soften the tone of the proposed letter to the 
Chairman of the Conference of Presidents, and there was general agree-
ment with them. 
There followed discussion, in response to questions from mem-
bers of the Board, regarding the various procedures involved and the 
probable cost to the System of providing additional services. Governor 
Maisel suggested that a proper concept would be to minimize total 
processing and related expense, even if that should result in somewhat 
greater cost to the Reserve Banks, with the understanding that the 
additional cost to the Reserve Banks could be split between them and 
the banks to which service was rendered. Governor Brimmer expressed 
some concern about the additional cost, estimated at $1 million a year, 
that would result from extending free delivery and pickup service to 
member banks in Reserve Bank cities. This point was at least worth 

o o / b 
11/4/68 
-8-
noting, he thought, before a final decision was made. Governor Brimmer 
also called attention to the lack of uniformity in the treatment of 
service to military facilities and expressed the view that the Reserve 
Banks should absorb all costs in those instances. Governor Mitchell 
expressed agreement. 
It was then agreed that the suggested policy statement and 
accompanying explanatory memorandum would be referred to the Presidents' 
Conference for comment. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the 
Chairman of the Conference is attached as Item No. 11. 
Bank Protection Act (Items 12-13). There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated November 1, 1968, from Governor Robertson recommend-
ing that a proposed regulation to implement the requirements of the 
recently enacted Bank Protection Act be published in the Federal 
Register for comment. The Act directed the bank supervisory agencies 
and the Home Loan Bank Board to prescribe minimum standards with which 
institutions under their jurisdiction must comply for protection 
against robberies, burglaries, and larcenies, and it specified that 
the regulations should be issued by January 6, 1969. A draft notice 
of proposed rule making and a proposed press release were attached to 
the memorandum. 
In commenting on the matter, Governor Robertson noted that the 
memorandum itemized the minimum security standards that the proposed 
regulation would prescribe for all State member banks (and Federal 

3879 
11/4/68 
-9-
Reserve Banks). He indicated that the Chairman of the Home Loan Bank 
Board and Assistant Attorney General Vinson favored the adoption of 
this form of regulation. However, the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration and the Comptroller of the Currency intended to publish for 
comment a regulation describing minimum standards in general terms 
only. Also, the regulation proposed by Governor Robertson included as 
an appendix a form (P-l) that would provide a detailed reporting pro-
cedure to insure compliance, whereas the FDIC and the Comptroller 
would rely on the examination process to check compliance. 
Governor Robert son stated that it was contemplated that the 
Reserve Banks would be requested to send in representatives for a 
training course in connection with the administration of the regula-
tion, following which the function would be delegated to the Reserve 
Banks except for such general guidance as was necessary, as in the 
mediation of controversies. 
In response to a question from Governor Daane as to the likeli-
hood that different regulations would be adopted by the several agencies, 
Governor Robertson repeated that there would be two versions published 
for comment: 
that of the FDIC and the Comptroller and that of the 
Board of Governors and the Home Loan Bank Board. After comments had 
been received, it was possible that revisions could be agreed upon to 
bring the two versions closer together. 
Governor Daane then inquired whether, granting the relative 
merits, the reporting form suggested by Governor Robertson warranted 

3880 
11/4/68 
-10-
an open difference with the other agencies and an added burden on 
State member banks as compared with other banks. Governor Robertson 
expressed the view that the burden would not be great; he noted that 
the Bank Administration Institute had called upon banks to fill in a 
far more detailed questionnaire than the one proposed here. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that, while he had no particular 
quarrel with the proposed form, he too questioned whether its use was 
worth a disagreement with the FDIC and the Comptroller. 
It seemed to 
him that perhaps the form could be used initially as an inventory, with 
simplified follow-up procedures. 
Governor Maisel stated, with respect to the proposed form, 
that he would prefer not to require its submission unless there was a 
definite plan as to the use that would be made of the information thus 
obtained. So far as the matter of specifying minimum standards was 
concerned, he would base them on performance rather than on a specific 
code that would be difficult to keep up to date and difficult to 
administer. He did not know how complex an administrative problem was 
involved, but there appeared to be numerous ramifications. 
Mr. Bouck stated, with respect to the minimum standards that 
would be required, that at the moment there were unfortunately no sta-
tistics to prove, for example, whether one security measure or another 
was more effective. The objective, however, was to provide a degree of 
guidance that should be helpful to the banks initially. As experience was 

3881 
11/4/68 
-11-
obtained--and in this respect the form P-l should be helpful--additional 
guidance could be supplied. So far as administration was concerned, he 
did not believe that the problem should be too complicated. One person 
at each Reserve Bank would be trained and, with the use of guidelines, 
should be able to handle the majority of the cases within a relatively 
short time. 
Governor Roberts on added that, in contrast, a check by examiners 
at the time of each examination would add up substantially in terms of 
cost. 
Governor Maisel again expressed skepticism about the value of 
the information obtained through the reporting system. If the other 
agencies thought the process was too complex, he would be inclined to 
re-examine it carefully before proceeding. 
Governor Mitchell observed that as an inventory the suggested 
form had possibilities for analyzing the incidence of crime. If for 
no other reason, it seemed to him that it might be worth while. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he would support Governor 
Robertson's proposal. He noted that a degree of specificity regarding 
minimum standards apparently was required to carry out the Congres-
sional mandate, and he asked Mr. Cardon to comment on whether the 
type of regulations favored by the FDIC and the Compt roller would 
appear sufficient. 
Mr. Cardon said that the approach suggested by Governor 
Robertson appeared to carry out the views of the Department of Justice, 

3882 
11/4/68 
-12-
which had been influential with the Congress. Accordingly, consider-
able weight should be given to them in formulating regulations, and he 
understood that the standards embodied in the proposed Board regula-
tion were regarded as minimum standards by the Department. 
Governor Sherrill said that he supported the policy objectives 
of the legislation, namely, to deter crimes against banks and minimize 
the cost of apprehension and prosecution. But on the question of 
administration and how specific the Board should be in its require-
ments, he tended to agree with Governor Maisel that it would be self-
defeating to require too much information without a fairly clear idea 
of what would be done with it. He saw administrative difficulties in 
setting up an inventory and maintaining it on a current basis, and he 
was not sure that the cost--to the banks and the Federal Reserve--would 
be warranted. He agreed that bankers needed guidelines to achieve 
adequate protection, but he was not sure that too much specificity 
should be attempted because of the varied circumstances in which banks 
operated. Nevertheless, he would be in favor of publishing the pro-
posed regulation in its present form in order to obtain reactions and 
then hopefully to reach a position on which all of the agencies could 
agree. 
Following further discussion along the lines of the foregoing, 
the publication of the proposed regulation for comment was approved 
unanimously. A copy of the press release subsequently issued is 

38r, 
11/4/68 
-13-
attached as Item No. 12, and a copy of the letter sent to the Federal 
• 
: f. 
Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 13. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
v 
cT! 
Secretary 
J 
:•... .i 
>.v 
• 
, 
{ .•.; 
• - : 
" i i > 
.• ; v. < ... i 
' • '. -.if 
,••,„ .', , • ; j ;. 
• i* 
1 
, i ; 

O O 8 4 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. I 
11/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P CJ N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
November 4, 1968. 
Marine Midland International Corporation, 
140 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of October 24, 1968, 
and that of Marine Midland Banks, Inc., of October 25, 1968, the 
latter enclosing a Consent signed under date of October 24, 1968, 
on behalf of Marine Midland Banks, Inc„, sole shareholder of your 
Corporation, consenting to amendments to the Articles of Associa-
tion of Marine Midland International Corporation to change the 
address of the Corporation from 140 Broadway, New York, New York, 
to 250 Park Avenue, New York, New York, to become effective on 
or about November 1, 1968. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendments to 
Articles THIRD and FOURTH. 
The Board interposes no objection to the maintenance 
of the Corporation's safekeeping facilities with Marine Midland 
Grace Trust Company at 140 Broadway, New York, New York, and its 
accounting records, together with those of its wholly-owned sub-
sidiary, Marine Midland Overseas Corporation, at 241 Main Street, 
Buffalo, New York, so long as these only reflect operations 
carried on at the corporations
1 home offices. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3885 
'f«4L RES*V 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F THE 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 1 / 4 / 6 8 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
• 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 4, 1968 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
October 25, 1968, the Board of Governors grants its consent for your 
Corporation ("CMOBC") to continue to hold the stock of Banco Lar 
Brasileiro ("Banco Lar"), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, after Banco Lar ac-
quires all of the stock of Centuria S.A. Credito Financiamento e 
Investimento ("Centuria"), Porto Alegre, Brazil, at a cost in cruzeiros 
equivalent to approximately $1,500,000, provided the shares^are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
n o i d m g of shares of Centuria by CMOBC is granted subject to the follow-
ing conditions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in Centuria if Centuria at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the 
consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 
stock, or if Centuria establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Centuria as it may require from time to 
time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Centuria 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Centuria were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act-
and 

Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
- 2 -
3886 
(4) That Banco Lar shall not carry on its books the shares 
of Centuria at a net amount in excess of the book capital 
accounts of Centuria, after giving effect to the elimina-
tion of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immedi-
ately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restric-
tions on loans granted by Centuria in Brazil in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Association, Memorandum of Association 
and By-Laws of Centuria. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3887 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No> 3 
S & J ^ S & t r .
 
D F ™
E 
11/4/68 
•rF. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 4, 1968. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
September 4, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for: 
(1) Bank of America to purchase and hold 3,625 additional 
shares of Amerikan-Turk Dis Ticaret Bankasi S.A. 
("ATDTB"), Istanbul, Turkey, at a cost of approxi-
mately $402,800; and 
(2) Bank of America to continue to hold the stock of 
Banca d'America e d'ltalia, Milan, Italy, after the 
latter acquires 725 additional shares of ATDTB at a 
cost of approximately $80,600; 
provided the above-mentioned shares are acquired within one year from 
tne date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
e s t a b H ! f r ? °
W u
e i 2
8 
a P P
r o v e d 
w i l 1 
b e 
m a ( *
e within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
tion
 C o r P ° ^
a t : i o n ' *
a n k 
o f America National Trust and Savings Associa-
a'
n djBamerical International Financial Corporation, and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3bes 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
* 0| 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
11/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 4 , 1968. 
Wachovia International Investment Corporation, 
P. 0 . Box 3099, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
27102 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of August 20, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to continue to hold the 349 shares of stock of Fomento 
de Inversiones, S.A. ("Fomento"), Mexico City, Mexico, which were 
acquired at a cost of $52,350 under a rights offering, and in the 
belief that they came within the Board's authorization of July 22, 
1968. Also in lieu of its consent of July 22, 1968, regarding the 
proposed acquisition through a convertible subordinated loan, the 
Board grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold up 
to 2,500 shares of common stock of Fomento at a cost of up to 
$500,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. In this connection, the Board also ap-
proves the purchase and holding of shares of Fomento in excess of 
10 per cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consents are given with the understanding 
that the investments now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation and Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

f*Ai RtS^ 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
3883 
Item No. 12 
5/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 4, 1968. 
Mr. John F . Watlington, Jr., 
Chairman of the Board, 
Wachovia International Investment Corporation, 
P. 0. Box 3099, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
27102 
Dear Mr. Watlington: 
The Board is in receipt of your Corporation's application 
dated August 20, 1968, "to purchase 300 shares of the common stock 
of Duque, S.A. at $10 per share." 
The Board has also been informed 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond that in a letter of even 
date your Corporation advised that "it was necessary for us to go 
ahead and buy this additional $3,000 of stock since the rights of-
fering expires on September 2, 1968." 
The Board is unable to find any consistency between the 
filing of the request by your Corporation for a future purchase and 
its statement the same day that the purchase had already been made. 
Neither does the Board see any necessity to have made the acquisition 
prior to August 20, 1968, when the rights offering did not expire 
until almost two weeks later. 
Furthermore, the Board has received no information of any 
extenuating circumstances nor any indication that the acquisition 
was an "exercise of stock rights in lieu of dividends" as permitted 
by Section 211.8(b)(2) of Regulation K , and your application would 
appear to be a tacit admission that this was not the case. That pro-
vision (except for the statutory one covering debts previously con-
tracted) is the only means by which a Corporation is currently permitted 
to acquire stock other than by receiving the specific prior consent 
from the Board. This fact was well known to your Corporation at the 
time of the acquisition in question, since the requirements of the 
law and Regulation for stock acquisitions had been discussed with 
various officers in relation to a similar action taken last spring 
by your Corporation. This was subsequently covered in the Board's 
letter to you of October 2, 1968. 
The Board has always recognized that occasions can arise 
where there is a minimum of time available for a Corporation to obtain 
the necessary authorization from the Board. It has been the Board's 
policy to expedite requests in such instances, when other considerations 

3 8 9 0 
M r . John F. Watlington, Jr. 
-2-
do not intervene. In the present case, however, it appears that 
your Corporation was advised of the stock rights offering over a 
month prior to their expiration, affording ample time for considera-
tion of a request by the Board. 
The Board cannot condone actions undertaken by a Corporation 
in violation of the Statute or Regulation, particularly when the 
Corporation knows that the action constitutes such a violation. 
While 
the Board at this time is not of a mind to interpose any objection to 
the continued holding of the stock in question of Duque, S.A., in the 
future the Board will require the immediate disposition of any shares 
of stock that are not acquired by your Corporation in conformity with 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation K . 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3891 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
I T E M 
N O - 
6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 1 / 4 / 6 8 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 4, 1968. 
Bankers International Corporation, 
280 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
As stated in the Board's press release of February 8, 
1968, it is not the Board's present policy to approve equity invest-
ments in developed countries of continental Western Europe except 
in unusual circumstances. 
However, due to the minimal amount of dollars involved, 
the Board, in accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of September 20, 1968, grants consent for your Corporation directly 
and indirectly through Bankers International (Luxembourg) S.A., 
your wholly-owned subsidiary, to purchase and hold all of the stock 
of Bankers Trust - Italia S.p.A. ("BTI"), Rome, Italy, at a total 
cost of approximately $16,000, provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
This consent is granted on the condition that BTI is to 
act as Bankers Trust Company's representative office, performing 
only those functions that are normal for foreign representative 
offices of United States banks. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
e feet as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activi-
ties of your Corporation and Bankers Trust Company, and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

E3DARD DF G D V E R N • RS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/4/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 4, 1968. 
First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of October 14, 1968, the Board of Governors 
grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
37,500 shares of the capital stock of Compania Minera del 
Sur S.A., La Paz, Bolivia, at a cost of approximately 
$375,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation, First National City Bank, International 
Banking Corporation, and First National City Bank (Inter-
national), and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 8 . ^ 3 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
Item No. 12 
4/4/68 
x n the Matter of the Application of 
MARINE MIDLAND TRUST COMPANY OF 
ROCKLAND COUNTY 
for approval of merger with 
Lafayette Bank and Trust Company of 
Suffern 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Marine Midland 
Trust Company of Rockland County, Nyack, New York, a State member bank 
the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the 
me*"ger into that bank of Lafayette Bank and Trust Company of Suffern, 
Suffern, New York, under the charter and title of Marine Midland Trust 
Company of Rockland County. As an incident to the merger, the two offices 
°f Lafayette Bank and Trust Company of Suffern would become branches of 
the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved 
b y the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of the 
factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the Comp-
troller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and 
the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger 

3 8 M 
- 2 -
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 4th day of November, 1968. 
By order of the Board ef Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Martin and Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
v;<_ . ' 
t 
'. < 
\ 
, 
v 

3 8 9 5 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 9 
11/4/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY MARINE MIDLAND TRUST COMPANY OF ROCKLAND COUNTY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
LAFAYETTE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY OF SUFFERN 
STATEMENT 
Marine Midland Trust Company of Rockland County, Nyack, New 
York ("Nyack Bank"), with total deposits of about $49 million, has 
applied, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the 
Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank with Lafayette Bank 
and Trust Company of Suffern, Suffern, New York ("Suffern Bank"), which 
has total deposits of about $13 million.—^ The banks would merge 
under the charter and name of Nyack Bank, which is a member of the 
Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, the two offices 
of Suffern Bank would become branches of Nyack Bank, increasing the 
number of its offices to nine. 
i 
Competition. - Nyack Bank is a subsidiary of Marine Midland 
Banks, Inc., Buffalo, New York, a registered bank holding company that 
has 11 subsidiary banks in the State of New York. The 11 banks operate 
230 offices with aggregate deposits of $4.2 billion. Nyack Bank operates 
7 offices in 6 communities, all within a 7-mile radius of the town of 
Nyack, where its main office is located, in the southeastern part of 
Rockland County. Rockland County is about 30 miles north of New York 
1/ Deposit figures are as of December 30, 1967. 

City and has an estimated population of 193,000. The County is mostly 
residential, but many new industrial and commercial concerns are 
locating there. 
Suffern Bank
fs main office is located in the town of Suffern 
(population of 5500) in the southwestern part of Rockland County, and 
its only branch is in the village of Sloatsburg, 3 miles north of 
Suffern. 
The towns of Nyack and Suffern are about 11 miles apart. 
Nyack is located on the west bank of the Hudson River, and Suffern is 
on the New Jersey border. The nearest offices of the two banks are 
located 6 miles apart on an east-west line. The flow of local traffic 
in Rockland County is generally in a north-south direction, and there 
are a number of other banking offices in the area between the offices 
of Nyack Bank and Suffern Bank, but each bank does derive some deposits 
and loans from the service area of the other. Thus, the merger would 
eliminate some existing competition between the two banks. 
Neither bank can establish branches in the community where 
the main office of the other is located, and much of the surrounding 
area is presently not sufficiently developed to support additional 
•• 
f * 
banking offices. However, Nyack Bank and Suffern Bank are potentially 
more vigorous competitors than they are at present. 
Nyack Bank holds about 16 per cent of total deposits in an 
area slightly larger than Rockland County, and Suffern Bank holds 
about 4 per cent. Although the merger would thus result in a bank 

- 3 -
holding 20 per cent of area deposits, there are 47 offices of 12 other 
banks competing in that area. One bank Holds 29 per cent of total area 
deposits, and seven of the other banks competing in the area have total 
deposits exceeding those of the bank that would result from this merger. 
In conclusion, the effect of the merger on competition, both 
existing and potential, would not be significantly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors in regard to Suffern Bank are reasonably satisfactory, 
except that the Bank is lacking sufficient managerial depth. In recent 
years, the Bank has suffered two Serious defalcations, which have had 
a detrimental effect on the confidence of Bank personnel and customers. 
In addition, the Bank has had difficulty maintaining fidelity insurance 
coverage. 
Consummation of the merger and the resulting affiliation with 
Marine Midland Banks, Inc. should alleviate the difficulties of Suffern 
Bank. The banking factors with respect to Nyack Bank are reasonably 
satisfactory and would remain so after the merger. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The effect of the 
merger on banking convenience and needs would be limited to the imme-
diate area of Suffern Bank, The merger would make available in that 
area an additional source of a broad range of banking services, which 
v i; v S 
are now offered only by one bank in the town of Suffern. 
s » 
Summary and conclusion; - In the judgment of the Board, the 
4 , 
effect of the merger on competition would not be significantly adverse. 

: 
• • 
. 
-4-
„ 
Moreover, the merger would have a beneficial effect in removing the 
difficulties of Suffern Bank and a slightly favorable effect on the 
banking convenience and needs of the Suffern community. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application 
should be approvede 
. i >. • • 
. 
November 4, 1968. 

3839 
. • S s i S ^ : . 
*' f^AL RE^ • 
BOARD DF G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
11/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 6, 1968. 
Mr. George J . Mauloff, Jr., 
Vice President, 
Marsh & McLennan, Incorporated, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60604 
Dear Mr. Mauloff: 
The Board of Governors has authorized the inclusion of 
its Board Members and employees in the master travel accident 
insurance policy of the Federal Reserve Banks with Mutual of 
Omaha Insurance Company. This coverage has been under binder 
since October 14, pending approval by the Board of Governors. 
Also, please consider this letter as a confirmation of 
your conversation with E . J, Johnson of the Board's staff in which 
it was agreed that beneficiary designations under this policy 
would be the same as the designation on file for the Civil Service 
Retirement System or the Board of Governors plan of the Federal 
Reserve Retirement System, whichever is applicable; or, in the 
absence of a designated beneficiary, then to the estate. 
The Board understands that it will be billed in the 
amount of $3,240, the premium for the first, three years 
coverage 
under this policy. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3300 
BDARD OF GDVERNDRS 
• F THE 
Item No. 11 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/4/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 8, 1968. 
Mr. George H. Clay, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
c/o Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
As a result of its consideration of the Report of the 
Subcommittee on Currency and Coin dated February 9, 1968, and of 
the actions taken thereon by the Presidents' Conference on 
March 4, 1968, the Board is of the belief that it would be 
desirable to strive for more uniformity in these areas and at 
the same time pattern currency and coin services in a way that 
would enhance membership in the Federal Reserve System to the 
extent possible. 
With these objectives in mind and to crystallize the 
issues, the enclosed draft of a proposed policy statement has 
been prepared. Also enclosed for your information is a copy of 
a memorandum from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
indicating the extent of the variations in the subject services. 
The Board would appreciate comments from the Conference 
with regard to the objectives of the proposed policy statement 
and the problems that it might generate. 
A copy of this letter and the enclosures are being sent 
to the President of each Reserve Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 

3901 
Statement of Policy with Respect to 
Currency and Coin Services of Federal Reserve Banks 
The policy with respect to member banks should be to 
provide all member banks with currency and coin in a convenient 
? scheduled basis with the understanding that the Reserve 
Bank will (a) pay the cost of transportation on shipments to and 
from all member banks without regard to location, (b) not be called 
upon to perform excessive processing of currency and coin such as 
would result from banks sending to the Reserve Banks frequent or 
unproven deposits, and (c) service branches of member banks within 
the same city on a net basis. 
The policy with respect to currency and coin service to 
nonmember banks and mutual savings banks should be to provide 
currency and coin direct, or through a member bank, on a gross 
cost basis, with the understanding that if a member bank orders 
currency and coin for subsequent delivery to a nonmember bank, the 
member bank would be expected to pay the gross cost as if the 
shipment were sent direct to the nonmember from the Reserve Bank 
1 
Uv.Ui 

Item No. 12 
11/4/68 
For release in morning papers of 
November 6, 1968. 
Friday, November 8. 
The three Federal banking agencies and the Federal Home Loan 
Bank Board each issued today for public comment proposed regulations 
Implementing the Bank Protection Act of 1968. After consideration of these 
p 
consents the agencies plan to publish final regulations by January 6, 1969, 
as required by Public Law 90-389, which was signed by President Johnson on 
July 7, 1968. 
The four regulatory authorities--the Federal Reserve Board, the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller of the Currency, and 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board--consulted with each other extensively in 
formulating their drafts. The purposes of each regulation are: 
(1) to 
establish minimum standards with which all affected 
institutions--banks and savings and loan associations—must comply with 
respect to the installation, maintenance, and operation of security devices 
and procedures to discourage robberies, burglaries, and larcenies and to 
assist in the identification and apprehension of persons who commit such 
acts; 
(?) to establish time limits within which each institution must 
comply; and 
(3) to require the submission of reports with respect to the 
installation, maintenance, and operation of security devices and procedures. 

The staffs of the four agencies received advice from law 
enforcement officers, banks, equipment manufacturers, and trade associa-
tions. The proposed regulations differ with each other in some details, 
but each requires affected institutions: 
(a) to designate a security officer; 
(b) to develop a written security program spelling out in detail 
the security procedures for each office of the institution; 
(c) to install lights, door locks, surveillance systems, and 
robbery and burglary alarms; and -
(d) to submit an annual certification of compliance with the 
regulations, and report whenever a robbery, burglary, or larceny is 
attempted. 
Attached is the text of the regulations proposed by the Board to 
ke applicable to State-chartered banks that are members of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
These banks and other interested persons have 30 days from 
Publication in the Federal Register to submit comments to their District 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
- 0 -
Attachment 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
13/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 6, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has approved for publication a proposed regulation 
to implement the Bank Protection Act of 1968, and has requested public 
comment through the Federal Reserve Banks within 30 days of publication 
of the draft regulation in the Federal Register. The Bank Protection 
Act directs the Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the 
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to 
prescribe minimum standards for security devices and procedures with 
which institutions under their jurisdiction must comply for protection 
against robberies, burglaries, and larcenies. The other regulatory 
agencies will publish for comment regulations that are similar in 
general scope but different in some respects from the Board's proposed 
regulation. 
As you were advised by wire on November 4, the other agencies 
will supply copies of their regulations to the institutions under their 
jurisdiction. We are sending you under separate cover copies of the 
Board's proposed regulation, together with a press statement to be 
released on November 8, for distribution to the State Member Banks in 
your District. It will be appreciated if you would also furnish a copy 
of the draft regulation to the State bank supervisors and State banking 
associations in your District. 
The Board will appreciate any comments that your Bank may wish 
to submit concerning the proposed regulation, particularly with respect 
to any problems of administration which you foresee from your Bank's 
Point of view. 
Very truly yours, 
( f c ^ CP 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
