MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
- ' : 
• ,.. 
i 
August 11, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 11, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a. m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
ft '. h A' I i 
v r'-
b • t 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
First Holding Company. Conflicting recommendations were 
Mtnbafc Civ^jtw < ?v; 
-h • •. 
.,...,,. 
.
.
•
• 
• 
•* • 
c°ntained in documentation regarding the application of First Holding 
gfcotlU ;- : d-uorv 
, ti:, ; 
vr, - v 
- ' < 
mPany, Inc., Waukesha, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of First National 
B^nk of Oconomowoc, Oconomowoc, Wisconsin. The Division of Supervision 
• 
.„ . .. 
. . 
. . ... 

2303 
8/11/70 
-2-
and Regulation and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago recommended 
denial, while the Banking Markets Section was in favor of approval. 
Discussion centered upon the definition of the Oconomowoc 
market and the competitive role expected to be played by the branch 
newly established on the outskirts of Oconomowoc by First National 
Bank of Waukesha, the applicant's lead bank. Some members of the 
Board gave weight to the fact that, whereas Oconomowoc was now 
served basically by three institutions, only two banking alternatives 
would be available if the proposed transaction were consummated. 
(A number of other existing institutions were not considered to pro-
vide forceful competition because they were small and located at 
the periphery of the market.) 
On the other hand, a view was expressed that the total number 
banking alternatives was reasonable in relation to the area's 
rather small population and that, at least in the short run, Oconomowoc 
should benefit from improved banking services. Also, the expansion of 
First Holding Company, a regional organization, would work toward 
better competition for the large, Milwaukee-based holding companies. 
The tentative positions of the members of the Board being 
almost evenly divided, there was unanimous agreement that the decision 
should be deferred until additional members could participate. 
Reduced reserves. 
In memoranda dated August 7, 1970, the 
division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended approval of 
f'VOV* •?>'. -5 
' ... 
.. " . i. ... . 
..,. ... 
... 

2301 
8/11/70 
-3-
two applications to carry reduced reserves. One application had been 
made by Southern National Bank of North Carolina, Lumberton, North 
Carolina, which had recently acquired a nonmember bank in downtown 
Charlotte and was operating a branch there. The other applicant 
was Old National Bank of Washington, Spokane, Washington, which 
wished to continue to carry country bank reserves after consummation 
°f its proposed merger with North West Bank, Seattle. 
To the staff, there seemed to be clear justification for 
granting the request of the North Carolina bank, but the Spokane-
Seattle case presented a closer question. The Spokane bank was much 
larger in deposit size than the one in Lumberton, and it seemed clear 
that it expected to use its Seattle offices to compete for consumer-
type bus iness with banks in Seattle that carried reserve city reserves. 
Yet the Spokane bank was not a typical money market bank. On balance 
the staff believed that the positive arguments slightly outweighed the 
negative ones. 
Question was raised whether it would be permissible to 
Prescribe reserve requirements weighted according to the volume of 
business done at various locations, and staff indicated that the Board's 
authority to prescribe reserve requirements was broad, allowing dis-
cretion to adopt almost any reasonable basis within the statutory 
ranges. 
It was also pointed out that a graduated or marginal system should 
Provide a solution, and there was general agreement that a memorandum 

ZJ 05 
8/11/70 
- 4 -
prepared some time ago regarding the merits of such a plan should be 
brought up to date and given renewed consideration. 
Other comments 
related to a staff study in progress looking toward a reclassifica-
tion of reserve cities. 
Another element of the discussion was a comparison between 
the Spokane-Seattle request and the circumstances attending favor-
able action on applications from banks in southern California. 
Although it was understood that annual review of such circumstances 
was standard procedure, Governor Mitchell suggested that a report 
would be especially appropriate with respect to United States 
National Bank, San Diego. 
As to the two immediate cases, the general view favored 
approval except that Governor Robertson opposed the application by 
°ld National Bank of Washington because of the size of the institution 
and because in his opinion its having two branches in downtown Seattle 
would give the bank an unfair competitive advantage if it were allowed 
to carry reserves at a rate lower than other Seattle banks. 
Other 
members of the Board felt that it would be appropriate to alert the 
bank to the fact that the situation would be reviewed after a year. 
The application of Southern National Bank of North Carolina 
was then approved unanimously, and the application of Old National 
Bank of Washington was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
Copies 
the letters sent to the applicant banks are attached as Items 1 and 2. 

2306 
8/11/70 
-5-
A copy of a letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
with respect to approval of the application of Old National Bank is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
BankPAC. In a letter of May 21, 1970, to President Francis 
°f the St. Louis Reserve Bank the Board had expressed the view that 
the service of a Reserve Bank branch director on a committee known 
as BankPAC (Bankers Political Action Committee) would be contrary to 
the policy set forth in the Board's 1915 resolution regarding political 
activities of Reserve Bank directors and officers, as amplified in 
the Board's letter of November 29, 1968. BankPAC had been formed for 
the purpose of centralizing appeals to bankers for financial support 
9? candidates for election to Congress. The contributor would receive 
n o commitment to support any particular candidate; the Committee itself 
would allocate funds to candidates. 
Mr. Francis set forth in a letter dated June 26, 1970, reasons 
why he felt that the Board's position should be reconsidered. The 
question was reviewed in a memorandum of July 30 from Mr. Hackley, 
who concluded that the original position was correct. A draft letter 
to President Francis was attached. 
Board members noted that it must be expected that bankers who 
were Federal Reserve Bank and branch directors would be active, like 
°ther bankers, in promoting the interests of the banking industry. 
However, a distinction was seen between such activities in a personal 

2307 
8/11/70 
-6-
capacity and through a nationwide organization, organized for fund 
raising and with public identification of its leadership and objec-
tives. Possibilities for conflict of interest situations arising 
also were mentioned, along with other implications involved in the 
contribution of funds for particular candidates for public office. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the letter to President 
Francis was approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 4, 
with the understanding that copies would be sent to all Federal 
Reserve Bank Chairmen and that the rationale underlying the Board's 
Position would be amplified to President Francis informally. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Kenyon 
and Molony. 
Officer appointment. 
The Board approved the appointment of 
Frank O'Brien, Jr., as Special Assistant to the Board, with annual 
salary at the rate of $23,900, effective the date he assumes his duties. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
8/11/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
• ^ t R E S t f . ' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P O N C ' 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 12, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
Southern National Bank 
of North Carolina, 
Lumberton, North Carolina,, 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, the Board of Governors 
acting under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Re-
serve Act, grants permission to the Southern National Bank 
of North Carolina to continue to maintain the same reserves 
against deposits as are required to be maintained by member 
banks not in a reserve city, effective as of August 3, 1970, 
the date of consummation of the merger with Bank of Charlotte. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such 
permission is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

£ 3 0 9 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
8/11/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 12, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
Old National Bank of Washington, 
Spokane, Washington. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Board of 
Governors, acting under the provisions of Section 19 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, grants permission to the Old National 
Bank of Washington to continue to maintain the same reserves 
against deposits as are required to be maintained by member 
banks not in a reserve city, effective for a period of one 
year following consummation of its merger with North West 
Bank, Seattle. 
The character of operations at Old National. 
Bank of Washington will be reviewed at the end of one year. 
Your attention is called to the fact that the 
permission granted is subject to revocation by the Board of 
Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
8/11/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 12, 1970 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
P • . - 
' 
• 
• 
Reference is made to your letter of July 24, 1970, 
recommending that the Old National Bank of Washington, Spokane, 
Washington, be permitted to continue maintaining the same re-
serves against deposits as are required to be maintained by banks 
not located in a reserve city following its merger with North 
West Bank, Seattle. 
It is the Board's understanding that no significant 
change in the general character of the business transacted by the 
bank is expected as a result of its entry into Seattle. 
In the 
circumstances, the Board grants permission under the provisions 
of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to the Old National Bank 
of Washington, Spokane, Washington, to continue maintaining re-
serves on the basis required of banks not in reserve cities, 
effective for a period of one year following consummation of its 
merger with North West Bank, Seattle. At the end of one year, a 
review should be made of operations of the bank and a report sub-
mitted to the Board if extension of the permission is desired. 
Please forward the enclosed letter addressed to the 
subj ect bank. A copy is enclosed for your file. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon , 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
8/11/70 
A D D R E S S 
O r F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 11, 1970 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
In the light of your letter of June 26, 1970, the Board 
has again considered the question whether it would be appropriate 
for a director of a Reserve Bank or branch to serve as a member of 
a committee known as "BankPAC", having in mind the policy estab-
lished by the Board's resolution of December 23, 1915, as amplified 
by the Board's letter of November 29, 1968 (F.R.L.S. U00.45). 
It is recognized that this Committee is somewhat different 
from the usual type of committee that raises funds in support of the 
election of a candidate for election to Congress. 
It is also recog-
nized that BankPAC is not associated with any political party, will 
not endorse or campaign for any candidate, and will allocate con-
tributions received by it from individual bankers to candidates who 
are thought to be friendly to the banking industry without regard 
to their political affiliations. Furthermore, as indicated in 
your letter, banker directors of the Reserve Banks and their branches 
should not be precluded from being active in their industry groups 
and committees. 
Nevertheless, the Board is concerned by the fact that 
BankPAC, as its title indicates, is a "political action committee" 
and that it is engaged in raising funds for the support of candi-
dates for political office. Although it would allocate funds to 
candidates without regard to their political affiliations, it 
appears that it would clearly be engaged in raising funds for the 
political support of candidates deemed friendly to the banking 
industry. 
Since adoption of the 1915 resolution of the Board, it 
has been the consistent policy of the System to avoid any situa-
tions that might give the appearance of associating the Reserve 

Mr. Darryl R. Francis 
-2-
Banks with political activities, even though at times this policy 
may make it more difficult to obtain the services of well-qualified 
directors. 
- While the question admittedly is a matter of judgment, 
the Board continues to be of the view that it would be inappro-
priate for directors of Reserve Banks or their branches to serve 
as members of BankPAC.. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
