Minutes for 
September 7, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1 H >t V >. 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Thursday, September 7, 
1967. The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Noble, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Burton and Miss McShane, Review Examiners, 
Division of Examinations 
The following actions were taken subject to ratification at 
tne next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present: 
Branch application (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to Crocker-Citizens National Bank, San Francisco, California, 
approving the establishment of a branch in London, England. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
— 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to 
the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Industrial 
National Bank of West York, York, Pennsylvania, into First National 
Bank & Trust Company, Red Lion, Pennsylvania. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
vf.u»/, 
v.opy ;)t cr.c i^Li-jr i-j -ir r^c^-n;
;
*.vc.-vj .uv, . 

« -S.'w ' 
9/7/67 
-2-
There is little competition existing between The 
Industrial National Bank of West York and The First 
National Bank & Trust Company, Red Lion, although there 
is potential for more. Overall, the effect of the pro-
posal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Branch application (Item No. 2). On August 16, 1967, the Board 
decided to defer action on the application of Wachovia Bank and Trust 
Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, to establish a branch in Graham 
pending determination by the courts of the validity of the approval of 
the branch by the State Banking Commission, which approval had been 
given over the protest of certain other banks. One of those banks, the 
North State Bank of Burlington, had filed suit for a review of the Com-
mission's action, claiming contravention of due process of law. For 
reasons unknown, the Burlington bank had now withdrawn its suit, and 
on September 5 the case was dismissed by the court. On the same date, 
the Commissioner of Banks issued a certificate authorizing the proposed 
branch of Wachovia to open for business. 
The Division of Examinations, in a memorandum of September 6, 
recommended that the Wachovia application be approved. The Division 
also recommended that copies of the letter to Wachovia be transmitted 
by the Richmond Reserve Bank to North State Bank and to a national bank 
that had been interested in the proceedings relative to the Graham 
situation. 
The recommendations of the Division were accepted, and unanimous 
approval was given to the proposed letter to Wachovia Bank and Trust 
Company. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 

5 3 8 
9/7/67 
- 3 -
Application of Hawkeye Bancorporation (Items 3-4). After con-
sideration of drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on August 3, 1967, of the application of Hawkeye Bancorpora-
tion, Red Oak, Iowa, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of Houghton 
State Bank, also of Red Oak, issuance of the order and statement was 
authorized. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as 
Items 3 and 4, respectively. 
Increase in employee loan fund (Item No. 5). The New York 
Reserve Bank had requested concurrence by the Board of Governors in 
action taken by its Board of Directors increasing from $20,000 to 
$40,000 the amount of Bank funds that could be used at any one time 
to make educational loans to employees. No change was requested in 
the limit of $25,000 on loans to needy employees. 
After reviewing the background of discussion of Reserve Bank 
loan funds that had occurred within the System in earlier years, prin-
cipally in the late 1940s, the circumstances under which educational 
loans were made by the New York Bank, and the reasons why the Board of 
Directors considered an increase in the current aggregate limit on such 
loans to be justified, the Division of Personnel Administration in a 
memorandum of September 1, 1967, recommended that the Board of Governors 
concur in the action taken by the Bank's Board of Directors. 

IK;. 
9/7/67 
-4-
The Division's recommendation was accepted, and unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the New York Reserve Bank in the 
form attached as Item No. 5. 
Salary of officer at Chicago Bank (Item No. 6). Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
approving the payment of salary to Raymond A. Reame as Assistant 
Cashier attached to the Detroit Branch at the annual rate of $11,500 
(the rate fixed by the Board of Directors) for the period September 7 
through December 31, 1967. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson today 
approved on behalf of the Board acceptance of 
the resignation of Peter M. Lauriat, Assistant 
Operations Analyst (Summer), Division of Bank 
Operations, effective the close of business 
September 6, 1967. 
'.i oy 
he 
i no . ,' 
• • • • 
m ' i-
thu 
Hon: 
• 
-• 
Secretar 

•) C, O c 
«>•). >r J 
Item No. 1 
9/7/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 7, 1967. 
Crocker-Citizens National Bank, 
One Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Crocker-Citizens National Bank, San Francisco, 
California, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in London, England, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation M. 
J ; .) • V
 r
 (J .; r • ; 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before October 1, 1968, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
... 
-i 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
pos es of the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R B 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE 5YSTE 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 
• F THE 
9/7/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E 
T D T H E 
B O A R 
September 7, 1967. 
Board of Directors, 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch by Wachovia Bank and Trust 
Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, in or near South Court 
Shopping Center, South Main Street, near the intersection of 
East Pike Street, Graham, Alamance County, North Carolina, pro-
vided the branch is established within six months from the date 
of this letter. 
Approval of this branch establishment reflects the 
Board
!
s conclusion that your bank's management is satisfactory 
and that its capital structure is adequate. Moreover, it has 
been determined that the proposed branch will serve better the 
convenience and needs of the community and that establishment of 
the branch will not tend to create an undesirable competitive 
situation. Accordingly, the Board finds that establishment of 
the proposed branch will be in the public interest. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
item No. 3 
9/7/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D # C. 
* , 
In the Matter of the Application of 
HAWKEYE BANCORPORATION, 
R e
d Oalc, Iowa, 
*-
0r
 approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of 
1
 per cent or more of the voting shares 
o f
 Houghton State Bank, Red Oak, Iowa. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S e
ction 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
n 
' 
• 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.4(a)(1) of Federal Reserve 
D 
Sulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)(1)), an application by Hawkeye Bancorporation 
Oak, Iowa, for the Board's prior approval of action to become a 
1 ' ^ 
a n
k holding company through the acquisition of 51 per cent or more of 
tH 
e
 voting shares of Houghton State Bank, Red Oak, Iowa. Hawkeye 
TJ 
Corporation presently owns a majority of the voting shares of Lyon 
Cn 
U n t
y State Bank, Rock Rapids, Iowa. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
St 
a t e
 of Iowa Banking Department of the application and requested views and 
onunendation thereon. On behalf of the Banking Department, the 
Pe
*intendent of Banks recommended that the application be approved. 

3538 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 30, 1966 (31 Federal Register 12814), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
v
iews with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
<
a
) before the thirtieth calendar day follov;ing the date of this Order 
°
r
 (b) later than three months after the date of the Order unless such 
t
ime shall be extended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 7th day of September, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Daane and Brimmer. 
$ 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
— — — — — — _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
<SEAL) 

i i O O J 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
 
I t e m N o
- 4 
9/7/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION OF 
HAWKEYE BANCORPORATION, RED OAK, IOWA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Hawkeye Bancorporation, Red Oak, Iowa ("Applicant"), has 
f
iled with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
C o m p a n y Act of 1956 ("the Act"), an application for approval of action 
^ become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 51 per cent 
more of the voting shares of Houghton State Bank, Red Oak, Iowa 
("Houghton Bank"). Applicant presently controls 97 per cent of the 
v
°ting stcck of Lyon County State Bank, Rock Rapids, Iowa ("Lyon Bank"). 
A a
 of December 31, 1 9 6 6 , H o u g h t o n Bank with two offices had total 
d e
Posits of $14 million; Lyon Bank's single office had deposits of 
n e
*rly $5 million. The closest offices of the two banks are approxi-
mately 200 miles apart. 
''^vVv.,'.. 
yUw3__a_^d recosmendat<cn of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
given to the State of Iowa Department of Banking, and a request made 
f o 
°
r
 views and recommendation. On behalf of the Banking Department, the 
Stat 
e
 Superintendent of Banking recommended that the application be approved. 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of this d a t e . 

-2-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a
 monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t 
to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States. 
Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, 
any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, 
r t e n d
 to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
r e
straint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
e f
fects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the conven-
ience and needs of the community to be served. In eacfi case the Board is 
rec
Juired to take into consideration the financial and managerial resources 
a n d
 future prospects of the bank holding company and- the banks concerned, 
thee convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Houghton Bank's 
C t l a i n
 office is located in Red Oak in southwestern Iowa, about 50 miles 
°
U t h e a s t o f
 Council Bluffs. Lyon Bank, Rock Rapids, is situated in the 
e
*treme northwestern part of th.e State some 70 miles north of Sioux City. 
b .m. ' 
a c h
 bank primarily serves the community in which it is located and the 
^lately surrounding rural area. Houghton Bank, with deposits of 
v. 
. 
c 
, 
' million, is the largest of seven banks competing within its primary 
area, and controls 36 per cent of the total deposits held in the 
e
gate by those banks. Houghton Bank's nearest competitor, geographically 
size, is located in Red Oak and has deposits of $10 million, or about 
25 
r
 cent of the aggregate deposits of the aforementioned seven banks. 

Lyon Banlc ($5 million of deposits) is the second largest of 
-yi • 
the two banks located in Rock Rapids, and the fourth largest of the 
eight banks competing in Lyon Bank's primary service area. Lyon Bank 
controls 15 per cent of the aggregate deposits of these eight banks, while 
its three largest competitors hold, respectively, 23, 20, and 18 per cent 
o f
 such deposits. Applicant's formation would place $19 million of 
deposits under its control, making it the third, and smallest, bank hold-
ing company operating in the State. Combined, the three holding companies 
would control 41 of the 911 banking offices in the State, and 9.2 per cent 
all bank deposits in Iowa, .4 per cent more than those now controlled 
b y t
ho two bank holding companies operating in Iowa. 
9 
The 10 largest banking organizations in the State control 24 per 
cent of the total deposits of all banks. This figure reflects the deposits 
held by the 14 subsidiary banks of the one Iowa-based bank holding company, 
a
nd the four subsidiary banks of a Minnesota-based holding company. Upon 
formation, Applicant's system would rank well below the smallest of the 
af
oreraontioned 10 organizations. 
On the basis of the record before the Board, it is reasonably 
e s
tabli shed that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result 
any tendency toward a monopoly, nor alter in any significant respect 
the existing degree of concentration of banking resources in the State, 
Of 
J n 
i n
 any other area that will be affected by the proposal. 
As stated, Houghton Bank and Lyon Bank are approximately 200 mile 
a
Part; their primary service areas do not overlap. Neither derives busines 

.4- 
3 5 4 2 
from the other's service area. Consequently, affiliation of the two banks 
a s
 Proposed would eliminate no existing competition between the banks. 
N o r
, considering the size of the banks and the distance separating them, 
is there much likelihood of any future competition that would be foreclosed 
b y t h
e affiliation proposed. 
As to the probable impact of Applicant's acquisition of Houghton 
Bat
*k on banks competing in the service area of the two proposed subsid-
iaries, this consideration offers no bar to approval of Applicant's be-
aming a bank holding company. The competitive advantages foreseeable 
f 
® Applicant's formation would not, in the Board's judgment, exert any 
U t l d u e i m
Pact on the six or seven banks competing in the respective service 
a r e
as of Houghton Bank and Lyon Bank. Nor will consummation of the pro-
posal change the number of alternative banking sources available to the 
^ u n i t i e s affected. Accordingly, the Board concludes that consummation 
f
 Applicant's proposal will not substantially lessen competition or in 
a t l y mat
*ner restrain trade in any relevant area. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Appi j 
n t w
as organized early in 1966 and acquired the stock of Lyon Bank 
n A
Pril of that year. Presently this stock is Applicant's princinal, 
v l
rtually sole, asset. The financial condition and prospects of Lyon 
are reasonably satisfactory. Houghton Bank was established in 1379 
a s
 a 
private bank and has operated under a charter from the State of Iowa 
n c e
 1936. While at the time the subject application was filed, Houghton 
Ba^
1 
s
 financial condition was reasonably satisfactory, the bank's capital 

i 3 » » 
structure was less than is considered advisable in relation to its 
deposit growth. In the period since the application was filed, the asset 
condition of Houghton Bank has improved significantly, and Applicant has 
stated its intention to strengthen the bank's capital position by a sub-
stantial contribution in the near future. Premised upon a continued 
improvement in Houp.ht on Bank's asset condition, and upon Applicant's 
commitment to strengthen the capital position of that bank, the Board 
concludes that Houghton Bank's financial prospects are reasonably favorable 
and that. consequently, those of Applicant are similarly favorable. 
Applicant's management is headed by its president and prospective 
P
r
incipal stockholder, who is also president of Houghton Bank and its 
m a
jority stockholder. The same individual, clearly the dominant force 
w
ith respect to Applicant's proposed system, is also president and a 
minority stockholder in two companies, one of which controls slightly 
l e s s
 than 50 per cent of the voting stock of First National Bank of Clinton, 
C
*inton, Iowa, the second of which controls 80 per cent of the voting 
st
°ck of Pella National Bank, Pella, Iowa. While none of the last-
m G
^tioned holding companies or banks is involved in Applicant's present 
^
r
°posalJ Applicant's president has made known his intention to expand 
A
PPU( 
acquisition of the Clinton and Pella banks. The management of 
•cant's bank ownership in other areas of the State, initially through 
the 
^°
u
8hton Bank and Lyon Bank, more particularly the aforementioned dominant 
dividual, is considered to be aggressive and competent by the State and 
Q G
*al banking authorities directly responsible for supervision of those 

'I 
u 
-6-
ba
nlcs. Applicant's management, essentially identical with that of the 
banks mentioned, is considered satisfactory. 
Convenience, needs, and welfare of the areas concerned. - As 
e a
*lier noted, the primary service areas of both Houghton Bank and Lyon 
B a
nk comprise the communities in which they are located and the immediate 
surrounding farm areas. Rock Rapids, the situs of Lyon Bank, is the seat 
Lyon County and has a population of nearly 3,000. Rock Rapids is pri-
m a
rily dependent upon agriculture for its economic support - principally 
d a i r
y and livestock feeding operations in the surrounding area - but is 
somewhat dependent upon employment afforded by the local school dis-
c t
 and some light industry. Houghton Bank's service area is also pri-
m a
rily agricultural in nature, with its economy being supplemented by the 
em
Ployment of approximately 1,000 of its residents by industrial concerns. 
H o u
Shton Bank operates a limited-service branch office in the agricultural 
°tttfnunity of Elliott, Iowa, some 16 miles northeast of Red Oak. 
The record before the Board establishes that the basic banking 
^
u
irements of the communities involved are adequately served by existing 
a
nki n g facilities. The record also reflects, however, that Lyon Bank has 
agricultural credit requests that exceeded the bank's lending limits. 
o . 
a r
l y , the Houghton Bank has been required, because of its lending 
limit. 
fa
> to sell loan participations with banks outside the State. Two 
s
 of Applicant's proposal appear to lend themselves favorably to the 
c
redit 
requirements of the areas involved. First, there has recently been 
si
2nated as Applicant's executive vice president an individual who was 

3 5 4 5 
-7-
formerly executive vice president of a $100 million bank in Nebraska. 
This individual's knowledge and experience is anticipated to lend con-
siderable strength to the operational techniques of Applicant's subsid-
iaries, particularly its credit functions. Secondly, the substantial 
capital addition to Houghton Bank, to which Applicant is committed, will 
S
isnificantly increase that bank's lending limit, a result that will enable 
and facilitate participation within Applicant's system of credit demands 
m
ade of either Houghton Bank or Lyon Bank. The aforementioned combination 
management experience and financial resources should enable both banks 
t o
 better serve the credit needs of their respective communities - a prospect 
V e
i£hing in favor of approval of the application. 
Additional benefits, albeit less significant, are likely to 
e s u
lt from consummation of Applicant's proposal. Since, for the most 
Part 
» ctiese service benefits are presently available from the banks now 
e r v
ing the areas concerned, their provision by Applicant relates only to 
Greater convenience to be offered to these communities. In summary," 
ia
°rations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
n v
olved are consistent with, and favor scmewhat, approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
°
nt
ained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
tra 
s
action would be in the public interest and that the application should 
be „ 
a
PProved. 
Sq M e m b e r 7, 1967. 

3546 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Mr. Thomas M. Timlen, Jr., 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 100U5 
Dear Mr. Timlen: 
In view of the circumstances described in your letter 
of August 21, 1967, the Board of Governors concurs in the action 
taken by your Board of Directors of increasing the amount of bank 
funds which may be used to make educational loans to employees 
from $20,000 to $1^0,000 outstanding at any one time. 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
9/7/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 7, 1967 
Very truly yours 
Secretary 

U Q j • 
354.7 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
9/7/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 7, 1967 
vi ' . • r •, j 
( ' " ,
 
f
' -•. . fcii- • ; •• ; . •>• • .• • 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
<...,. • 
' 
', irn- 
}•:-.. 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary 
to Mr. Raymond A. Reame as an Assistant Cashier at the Detroit 
Branch, at the rate of $11,500 per annum effective immediately 
through December 31, 1967* This Ijp the rate fixed by your Board 
of Directors as reported in your letter of August 24, 1967. 
u'uy. > y.vjur 
111 
t'i..-; 
iI: 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
