'R 609 
R e
v. 5-67) 
Minutes for
 
J u n e 
5
>
 
1 9 6 7 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
M
. 
X 
oi 
U Oi 

a ' . 
' 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 5, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administra-
tive Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Harris, Coordinator of Defense Planning 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

6/5/67 
-2-
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mr. Staiger, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mr. Rhinehart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Sanders and Via, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Lougee and Wiles, Economists, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Achor, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Smith, Assistant to the Director, Division 
of Administrative Services 
Messrs. Garges, Computer System Specialist, and 
Rand, Systems Engineer, Division of Data 
Processing 
Investment in bank premises (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to Georgia Railroad Bank & Trust Company, 
Augusta, Georgia, approving an investment in bank premises. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Citizens Bank of Monroe, Monroe, New York, into County 
National Bank, Middletown, New York, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller, the conclusion being stated as follows 
Consummation of the proposed merger would eliminate 
existing and potential competition between County National 
Bank, Middletown, and Citizens Bank of Monroe. While 
County Bank is not the largest bank operating offices in 
Orange County, it is the largest commercial bank head-
quartered in the county and holds the largest share of 
county deposits. This position would be enhanced by the 
proposal. The overall effect of the proposed merger on 
competition would be adverse. 

6/5/67 
-14-
the two functions would invite maintenance as well as operating prob-
lems . 
After further discussion there was agreement with Governor 
Robertson's summation of the consensus as looking toward the instal-
lation of an IBM system 360, model 65, in Culpeper with an overlap 
period during which the system 360, model 50, also would be operated 
at the Board's offices. A decision on eventual disposition of the 
latter would be reserved for the future. As to the proposed communi-
cations system, all possible alternatives should be explored further. 
Messrs. Solomon (Adviser), Molony, Kelleher, Kakalec, Harris, 
Byrne, Langham, Staiger, Rhinehart, Garges, Rand, and Smith then with-
drew from the meeting. 
Delegation of Board functions (Items 2-3). Pursuant to the 
understanding at the meeting on April 25, 1967, there were transmitted 
to the Federal Reserve Banks drafts of (1) Rules Regarding Delegation 
of Authority, to be published in the Federal Register, that would pro-
vide for the delegation of certain statutory or regulatory functions 
of the Board, and (2) a list of certain nonstatutory and nonregulation 
functions of the Board that might be delegated without publication in 
the Federal Register. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from the Legal 
Division dated June 1, 1967, summarizing suggestions received from the 
Reserve Banks. Attached to the memorandum were revised drafts of the 

2
2
m 
6/5/67 
-15-
Rules and the secondary list that reflected the Division's recommenda-
tions. Also attached was a draft of letter to the Reserve Bank Presi-
dents that would transmit copies of the Rules and the secondary list 
and offer explanatory comments. 
During discussion Governor Robertson expressed doubt about the 
wisdom of delegating certain functions under Regulation K, Corporations 
Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal Reserve Act. 
He also noted that, as presently worded, the suggested procedure for 
review of delegated actions might lead to a situation where a bank 
would proceed under authorization from the delegated level only to be 
faced with reversal of that authority upon subsequent review by the 
Board. Mr. Hackley suggested alternative language to cover that point. 
Other members of the Board made additional suggestions, mostly 
editorial in nature, following which Mr. Hackley observed that as the 
Board gained experience, any difficulties that might develop could be 
corrected by amendment. 
Unanimous approval was then given, effective July 1, 1967, to 
the Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority, as amended in the light 
of comments at this meeting, with the understanding that they would 
be published in the Federal Register, and to the delegation of certain 
other functions of a nonstatutory and nonregulation nature as set forth 
in the list of such functions, which would not be published. A copy 

6/5/67 
-16-
of the letter transmitting these materials to the Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 2. 
Mr. Fauver suggested that it would facilitate public under-
standing if a press release also were issued. There was general agree-
ment with this suggestion, and a copy of the press release subsequently 
issued is attached as Item No. 3. 
Governor Brimmer said that he had on occasion been asked why 
the Board did not delegate authority with respect to bank merger and 
bank holding company applications. He commented that it would be 
helpful if a statement could be prepared in this regard for use by 
members of the Board should they be called upon to comment on this 
point. In addition, the time lag between receipt of such applications 
and final Board action appeared to be longer than he had realized, and 
he inquired whether information could be prepared that would identify 
where the lags had occurred in the past. It was understood that the 
requested information would be furnished. 
At this point Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting, indi-
cating that he wished to abstain from participating in the considera-
tion of the next item on the agenda. 
Amendments to Rules and Regulations of Retirement System (Item 
No. 4). There had been distributed a memorandum from Mr. Johnson dated 
May 26, 1967, relating to proposed amendments to the Rules and Regula-
tions of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, the 

f 
Item No. 2 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
6/5/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
S"2020 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 8, 1967. 
«AL RfcSf 
Dear Sir: 
Effective July 1, 1967, the Board has delegated its authority 
with respect to certain supervisory functions that, by statute 
or by regulation, must otherwise be performed by the Board, A copy 
of the Board's new regulation, "Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority", 
in the form that it is being submitted for publication in the Federal 
Register, is enclosed. The regulation will be printed at the Board; 
Please advise by wire the number of copies that your Bank will need 
for making distribution to member banks, holding companies, and other 
interested persons within your District and for reserve. 
In addition, and effective at the same time, the Board has 
delegated certain of its nonstatutory and nonregulation functions. 
A copy of the document reflecting this action is also enclosed. 
A few explanatory comments seem to be appropriate in order 
that 
delegees may fully understand the Board's intention with respect 
to these actions. Although in some areas a delegee's authority is 
wore extensively limited than in others, the Board intends that, 
within the scope of a delegee's authority, the delegee may either 
a
Pprove or deny an application. An application must be submitted to 
the Board for its consideration only if it may not be approved by a 
delegee because of restrictions on his authority. The delegee should, 
however, submit to the Board any matter of unusual importance or 
complexity even though action on the application would be within the 
scope of the delegee's authority. 
Except to the extent that the new rules are inconsistent 
with previous instructions of the Board, they are not intended to 
supersede such instructions or to require modifications of practices 
developed on the basis thereof. Thus, S-1872 and S-1879 (F.R.L.S. 
#3720) relating to applications by State member banks for permission 
to exercise statutory fiduciary powers continue in effect, subject to 
the new reporting requirements. Similarly, the authority of the 
General Counsel with respect to agreements under which Reserve Banks 

2244 
S-2020 
-2-
perform fiscal agency functions does not change the current procedure 
under which fiscal agency agreements are developed. Also, because 
it appears that practices developed pursuant to the Board's outstanding 
instructions on examination of affiliates of State member banks 
(F.R.L.S. #3710) are such that the question of waiver of examination 
seldom, if ever, arises, delegation of authority as to that matter 
has been omitted as unnecessary and perhaps confusing or misleading 
as to the Board's intentions. 
In taking its actions, the Board considered the suggestions 
of the Reserve Banks for minor changes in the review procedures. 
Perhaps experience in operating under delegation of the Board's 
authority will suggest the need for modification, but for the present 
the Board believes that the procedures originally proposed and finally 
adopted are consistent with the law and purposes of delegation, while 
at the same time furnishing the Board both with readily accessible 
information on all matters under consideration and with an appropriate 
means of evaluating actions taken on its behalf at the delegated level. 
Accordingly, each Reserve Bank should at the end of each 
business day, as to all subjects with respect to which it is authorized 
to act on behalf of the Board, briefly identify in a telegram to the 
Board's Secretary the nature of (a) any applications or requests re-
ceived during that day and (b) all actions taken by the Reserve Bank 
pursuant to delegated authority on that day. (If no applications or 
requests are received and no actions are taken on any given day, it 
would be appreciated if, for the time being, a telegram to that effect 
would be dispatched.) One exception to these reporting requirements 
seems appropriate. In connection with waivers of penalties for 
deficient reserves, it will be sufficient if all actions granting such 
waivers during a calendar quarter are reported within a few days 
after the close of such period. 
Actions taken by the Reserve Banks as delegees should be 
embodied in letters addressed by them to the applicant. Such letters 
should be signed by the appropriate officer of the Reserve Bank,and 
a
 copy of each should be forwarded to the Board's Secretary. All 
actions taken by delegees will be noted in the minutes of the Board 
for the day on which the actions are taken. In the rare instance 
in which Board review is requested and the Board decides to consider 
the matter, wire advice to that effect will promptly be sent by the 
Board's Secretary directly to the applicant or other person concerned, 
with an information copy to the Reserve Bank involved. 

S-2020 
-3-
In this endeavor to modernize and expedite its procedures, 
the Board expects that questions and problems will arise from time 
to time. It is hoped that the Reserve Banks will keep the Board 
Informed on such matters and of their views on the general subject. 
Very truly yours, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265 - RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
I. 
Effective July 1, :1967, Part 265 is added. 
2a, This part is promulgated pursuant to and in accord-
ance with the provisions of section 11(k) of the Federal Reserve Act 
(12 U.S.C. 248(k)) which became effective November 5, 1966, The new 
rules are designed to provide a more expeditious means for the per-
formance of certain of the Beard's bank supervisory functions and 
to improve its overall efficiency in fulfilling its statutory 
responsibilities. 
b, The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United 
States Code, relating to notice and public participation and to 
deferred effective dates, were not followed in connection with the 
adoption of this part, because the rules contained therein are 
Procedural in nature and accordingly do not constitute substantive 
r u
les subject to the requirements of such section. 
3. The new part is set forth below. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 5th day of June, 1967, 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
/s/ Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Sec. 
265.1 Delegation of functions generally. 
265.2 Specific functions delegated. 
265.3 Review of action at delegated level. 
Authority: 
The provisions offtfcis Part 265 issued under sec. 11(k) 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(k)). 
§ 265.1 Delegation of functions generally. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 11(k) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(k)), the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System delegates authority to exercise those of its functions 
described in this part, subject to the limitations and guidelines herein 
Prescribed. The Chairman of the Board of Governors assigns the respon-
sibility for the performance of such delegated functions to the persons 
herein specified. A delegee may submit any matter to the Board for 
determination if he considers such submission appropriate because of 
the importance or complexity of the matter. 
§ 265.2 
Specific functions delegated. 
(a) The Secretary of the Board (or, in his absence, the Acting 
Secretary) is authorized: 
(1) Under the provisions of part 261 of this chapter, to make 
available, upon request, information in the records of the Board. 
(2) Under the prd/isions of section 4(b) of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1814(b)), to certify to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation that, with respect to the admission of a State-
chartered bank to Federal Reserve membership, the factors specified in 
section 6 of that Act (12 U.S.C, 1816) were considered. 

(b) The General Counsel of the Board (or, in his absence, the 
Acting General Counsel) is authorized: 
(1) Under the provisions of section 2(g) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C* 1841(g)), to determine whether a company that 
transfers shares to any of the types of transferees specified therein 
is incapable of controlling the transferee. 
(2) Under the provisions of section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)), to determine that a company engaged in 
activities of a financial, fiduciary, or insurance nature falls within 
the exemption described therein permitting retention or acquisition of 
control thereof by a bank holding company. 
(3) Under the provisions of sections 1101-1103 of the Internal 
Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 1101-1103), to make certifications (prior and 
final) for federal tax purposes with respect to distributions pursuant 
to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
(c) The Director of the Division of Examinations (or, in his 
absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
(1) Under the provisions of the seventh paragraph of section 9 
°f the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 325), to select or to approve the 
appointment of Federal Reserve bank examiners, assistant examiners, and 
special examiners. 
(2) Under the provisions of the nineteenth paragraph of 
section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 625) and section 211.9(e) 
°f this chapter (Regulation K), to require submission and publication of 
reports by an "Edge Act" corporation. 

2249 
-3-
(3) Under the provisions of section 5 of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1G44), after having received clearance from the 
Bureau of the Budget (where necessary) and in accordance with the law 
Administrative Procedure (5 U.S.C. 553), to promulgate registration, 
annual report, and other forms for use in connection with the adminis-
tration of such Act. 
(4) Under the provisions of section 12(g) of the Securities 
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 781(g)): 
(i) to accelerate the effective date of a registration 
statement filed by a member State bank with respect 
to its securities; 
(ii) to accelerate termination of the registration of 
such a security that is no longer held of record 
by 300 persons; and 
(iii) to extend the time for filing a registration state-
ment by a member State bank. 
(5) Under the provisions of section 12(d) of the Securities 
^change Act (15 U.S.C. 78JL(d)), to accelerate the effective date of 
appli Catio n by a member State bank for registration of a security 
°
n
 a national securities exchange. 
(6) Under the provisions of section 12(f) of the Securities 
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 701(f)), to issue notices with respect to an 
Application by a national securities exchange for unlisted trading 
Privileges in a security of a member State bank. 

-4-
(7) Under the provisions of section 12(h) of the Securities 
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 781(h)), to issue notices with respect to an 
a
Pplication by a member State bank for exemption from registration. 
(8) Under the provisions of section 206.5(f) and (i) of this 
chapter (Regulation F), to permit the mailing of proxy and other 
soliciting materials by a member State bank before the expiration of 
time prescribed therein. 
(9) Under the provisions of sections 206.41, 206.42, and 206.43 
(Instructions as to Financial Statements 9, 4 , and 3, respectively) of 
tl
*is chapter (Regulation F), to permit the omission of financial state-
ments from reports by a member State bank and/or to require other 
financial statements in addition to, or in substitution for, the state-
m
ents required therein. 
(d) The Director of the Division of Bank Operations (or, in 
his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
(1) Under the provisions of the sixteenth paragraph of section 
^ of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C, 304), to classify member banks 
the purposes of electing Federal Reserve bank class A and class B 
directors, giving consideration to (i) the statutory requirement that 
e a
c h of the three groups shall consist as nearly as may be of banks of 
similar capitalization and (ii) the desirability that every member bank 
h 
a v
e the opportunity to vote for a class A or a class B director at 
e a
s t once every three years. 

2 t 5 i 
-5-
(2) Under the provisions of the third paragraph of section 16 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 413), to apportion credit among the 
Reserve banks for unfit notes that are destroyed, giving consideration to 
the net number of notes of each denomination that were issued by each 
Reserve bank during the preceding calendar year. 
(3) Under the provisions of section 19(b) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461) and section 204.2(a)(2) of this chapter 
(Regulation D), to permit a member bank in a reserve city to maintain 
reserves at the ratios prescribed for banks not in reserve cities, except 
a bank with demand deposits larger than the amount of demand deposits of 
the largest bank in the city that is permitted to maintain reserves at 
such lower ratio, giving consideration to factors such as the amount of 
the bank's resources, total deposits, demand deposits, demand deposits 
owing to banks, types of depositors and borrowers, turnover of demand 
deposits, geographical location within the city, and competitive position 
with relation to other banks in the city. 
(e) The Director of the Division of Personnel Administration 
(or, in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized, under the 
Provisions of the twenty-first paragraph of section 4 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 306), to approve the appointment of assistant 
Federal Reserve agents (including representatives and alternate repre-
sentatives of such agents). 
(f) Each Federal Reserve Bank is authorized, as to member 
banks or other indicated organizations headquartered in its district: 

2252 
- 6 -
(1) Under the provisions of the third paragraph of section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 321), section 5155 of the 
Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 36), and section 208.8 of this chapter 
(Regulation H), to permit a State member bank to establish a domestic 
branch if: 
(i) the bank's capitalization is adequate in relation 
to the character and condition of its assets and to 
its deposit liabilities and other corporate responsi-
bilities, including the volume of its risk assets and 
of its marginal and inferior quality assets, all 
considered in relation to the strength of its 
management; 
(ii) the bank's management is adequate to all of its 
responsibilities, has the ability to cope successfully 
with existing or foreseeable problems, and has 
sufficient depth to staff the proposed branch without 
any significant deterioration in the overall manage-
ment situation; 
(iii) the convenience and needs of the community will be 
better served if the proposed branch is established; 
(iv) the establishment of the proposed branch will not tend 
to create an undesirable competitive situation (either 
actual or potential); 

"
7
" 
2 2 
(v) there are good prospects for profitable operations 
of the proposed branch within a reasonable time, and 
the bank's earnings are adequate to sustain the 
operational losses of the proposed branch until it 
becomes profitable; 
(vi) the bank's investment in bank premises after the 
expenditure for the proposed branch will be reasonable; 
(vii) counsel for the Reserve bank considers that establish-
ment of the branch would be in conformity with the 
provisions of section 5155 of the Revised Statutes 
and section 208.8 of this chapter; and 
(viii) the establishment of the proposed branch has been 
approved by the appropriate State authority. 
(2) Under the provisions of the sixth paragraph of section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 324) and the provisions of 
section 5199 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 60), to permit a State 
member bank to declare dividends in excess of net profits for the 
calendar year combined with its retained net profits of the preceding 
two years, less any required transfers to surplus or a fund for the 
retirement of any preferred stock, if: 
(i) the bank's capitalization is adequate in relation 
to the character and condition of its assets and to 
its deposit liabilities and other corporate responsi-
bilities, including the volume of its risk assets 
and of its marginal and inferior quality assets, 
all considered in relation to the strength of its 
management; and 

2254 
-8-
(ii) after payment of the proposed dividend, the bank's 
capitalization would still be adequate in accord-
ance with such considerations* 
(3) Under the provisions of the tenth paragraph of section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C, 328), to waive six months' 
notice by a bank of its intention to withdraw from Federal Reserve 
membership• 
(4) Under the provisions of the eleventh paragraph of 
section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 329), to permit a State 
member bank to reduce its capital stock if its capitalization thereafter 
will be: 
(i) in conformity with the requirements of federal 
law, and 
(ii) adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and 
V 
other corporate responsibilities, including the 
volume of its risk assets and of its marginal and 
inferior quality assets, all considered in relation 
to the strength of its management. 
(5) Under the provisions of the seventeenth paragraph of 
section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 334), to extend the time, 
for good cause shown, within which an affiliate of a State member bank 
g 
• 
- \ 
must file reports. 
(6) Under the provisions of the seventh paragraph of section 13 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 372), to permit a member bank to 
accept commercial drafts in an aggregate amount at any one time up to 
100 per cent of its capital and surplus. 

2255 
-9-
(7) Under the provisions of section 24A of the Federal Reserve 
Act (12 U.S.C. 371d), to permit a State member bank to invest in bank 
Premises in an amount in excess of its capital stock, if: 
(i) the bank's capitalization is adequate in ralation to the 
character and condition of its assets and to its deposit 
liabilities and other corporate responsibilities, 
including the volume of its risk assets and of its 
marginal and inferior quality assets, all considered 
in relation to the strength of its management; and 
(ii) upon completion of the proposed investment, the bank's 
aggregate investment (direct and indirect) in bank 
premises plus the indebtedness of any wholly-owned 
bank premises subsidiary will not exceed 40 per cent 
of its total capital funds (including capital notes 
and debentures) plus reserves other than valuation 
reserves. 
(8) Under the provisions of the ninth paragraph of section 25(a) 
the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 615), to extend the time in which 
"Edge Act" corporation must divest itself of stock acquired in satis-
faction of a debt previously contracted. 
(9) Under the provisions of the twenty-second paragraph of 
Action 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 628), to extend the 
Period of corporate existence of an "Edge Act" corporation. 
(10) Under the provisions of section 5(a) of the Bank Holding 
Comp a ny Act (12 U.S.C. 1844(a)), to extend the time within which a bank 
holding company must file a registration statement. 

- 1 0 -
2258 
(11) Under the provisions of section 4(a) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(a)), to extend the time within which a bank 
holding company must divest itself of interests in nonbanking organi-
zations. 
(12) Under the provisions of section 4(c)(2) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)), to extend the time within which a bank 
holding company must divest itself of interests in a nonbanking organi-
zation acquired In satisfaction of a debt previously contracted. 
(13) Under the provisions of section 5(c) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1844(c)), to require reports under oath to 
determine whether a company is complying with the provisions of such 
Act and the Board's regulations promulgated thereunder. 
§ 265.3 Review of action at delegated level. 
Any action taken at a delegated level shall be subject to 
review by the Board only if such review is requested by a member of the 
Board either on his own initiative or on the basis of a petition for 
review by any person claiming to be adversely affected by the action. 
A
ny such petition for review must be received by the Secretary of the 
Board not later than the fifth day after the date of such action. Notice 
°f any such review shall be given to the person with respect to whom such 
a
ction was taken and be received by such person not later than the close 
the tenth day following the date of such action. Upon receipt of 
®uch notice, such person shall not proceed further in reliance upon such 
a
ctton until he is notified of the outcome of review thereof by the Board. 

DELEGATION BY THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF CERTAIN FUNCTIONS OF A NONSTATUTORY AND NONREGULATION NATURE 
Effective July 1, 1967, the Board of Governors delegates 
authority to exercise those of its nonstatutory and nonregulation 
functions set forth below, subject to the limitations and guidelines 
indicated. A delegee may submit any matter to the Board for deter-
mination if he considers such submission appropriate because of the 
importance or complexity of the matter. 
(a) The Board member responsible for internal affairs is 
authorized to approve foreign travel by members of the Board's staff, 
except where travel of unusual nature is involved. 
(b) The General Counsel (or, in his absence, the Acting 
General Counsel) is authorized: 
(1) To approve agreements under which Reserve banks perform 
fiscal agency functions, except those for the United States Treasury 
Pursuant to section 15 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
(2) To extend the time within which briefs, argument, data, 
etc., may be submitted with respect to the Board's administrative 
Proceedings, 
(3) To approve, up to $50,000, the compensation to be paid 
by a Reserve bank for special counsel, 
(c) The Director of the Division of Examinations (or, in his 
absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
(1) To promulgate the form of the report of an examination 
°f an "Edge Act" corporation, 
(2) To promulgate the form of the report of an examination 
°f a State member bank, 
(3) To inform the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as 
to compliance by a bank with conditions imposed on withdrawal from 
membership. 
(d) The Director of the Division of Bank Operations (or, in 
his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
(1) To modify the Reserve Bank Accounting Manual (after 
considering the views of the Subcommittee on Accounting of the Committee 
°n Systems, Procedures, and Accounting of the Conference of Presidents) 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices for banks, 
except that the following will not be authorized: 
(i) reserves for 
contingencies, (ii) charge-offs of land to below estimated market value, 

2258 
-2-
(iii) charge-offs of buildings, or special additions to allowances for 
depreciation, that would result in full depreciation before 40 years 
after the date of completion of the structure, and (iv) write-down of 
Government securities below cost, including establishment of a valua-
tion reserve. 
(2) To exercise supervision over the following matters relating 
to Federal Reserve notes: 
(i) printing orders and (ii) contracts for 
shipment, giving consideration to, respectively, (i) the desirability 
of maintaining a two-year reserve supply of $5 to $100 notes and a 
one-year supply of $1 notes and (ii) awarding contracts to the lowest 
bidder determined to be qualified. 
(
e
) Each Federal Reserve Bank is authorized, as to member 
banks or other indicated organizations headquartered in its district: 
(1) To extend the time within which a bank holding company 
may acquire shares in connection with an application approved by the 
Board, if no material change has occurred in the company's general 
condition since such application was approved. 
(2) To extend the time within which a bank holding company 
must file its annual report. 
(3) To extend the time within which (i) a State member bank 
may establish a domestic branch, (ii) a member bank may establish a 
foreign branch, or (iii) an "Edge Act" or "Agreement" corporation may 
establish a branch or agency, if no material change has occurred in 
the bank's (or corporation's) general condition since the application 
Was approved. 
(4) To extend the time within which an "Edge Act" or "Agree-
ment" corporation may accomplish a purchase of stock that has been 
authorized by the Board, if no material change has occurred in the 
corporation's general condition since such authorization. 
(5) To extend the time within which Federal Reserve member-
ship must be accomplished, if no material change has occurred in the 
bank's general condition since the application was approved. 
(6) To waive the penalty for deficient reserves by a member 
hank if, after a review of all the circumstances relating to such de-
ficiency, the Reserve bank concludes that waiver of the penalty is 
Warranted, except that in no case shall a penalty for deficient reserves 
be waived if the deficiency arises out of the bank's gross negligence 
°r conduct inconsistent with the principles and purposes of reserve 
requirements. (KOTE: This supersedes the instructions contained in 
F
.R.L.S. #6120.) 

o o t u 
Item No. 3 
6/5/67 
June 8, 1967 
For release in morning papers, 
Monday, June 12, 1967. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced it was delegating, effective July 1, 1967, certain of its 
administrative and bank supervisory functions to the Federal Reserve 
Banks and to specified officials on the Board's staff. 
The action, which marks the initial implementation of 
authority granted to the Board by the Congress in November 1966, takes 
the form of a new regulation, "Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority." 
Ihe handling of several types of administrative action, in accordance 
with standards prescribed in the regulation, will be expedited by the 
n
ew procedure. 
Authority to approve domestic branches of State-chartered 
member banks is among the more significant matters delegated by the 
Board--in this case to the Federal Reserve Banks. Examples of other 
delegated actions, which formerly required specific Board approval, 
include extensions of time for registration by a bank holding company, 
extensions of time for registration of securities of State member banks, 
Waiver of the six months 
notice that a State member bank must give 
before withdrawing from membership, approval of an investment by a State 
Member bank in bank premises in excess of its capital stock, and the 
declaration of dividends by a State member bank in certain circumstances. 
The new regulation provides for review by the Board of Governors 
any action taken by those to whom authority has been delegated in the 
event that any person claims to have been adversely affected. 

i 22RO 
-2-
It is expected that the efficient and expeditious performance 
of the Board's major responsibilities, both in the field of monetary and 
credit policy and in the field of bank supervision and regulation, will 
be facilitated by the delegation of many functions that formerly had to 
• . •. 
be performed in all cases by the Board itself. 
Attached is a copy of the new regulation as sent to the 
Federal Register. 
- 0 -
Attachment 
