Minutes for March 16, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary-
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell. 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

988 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 16, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Kern, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Heller and Mr. Via, Senior Attorneys, Legal 
Division 
Mr. Ring, Senior Technical Assistant, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Miss McShane, Assistant Review Examiner, Division 
of Examinations 
Approved items. The following items, copies of which are 
a t
tached to these minutes under the respective numbers indicated, were 
^E££oved unanimously after consideration of background material that 
been made available to the Board and clarification of points of 
I n
formation about which members of the Board inquired: 

3/16/67 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to The Schenectady Trust Company, 
1 
Schenectady, New York, granting an extension 
of time to establish a branch in the Town of 
Colonie, Albany County. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
2 
York authorizing it to waive the assessment 
of a penalty incurred by Glen Ridge Trust 
Company, Glen Ridge, New Jersey, because of 
a deficiency in its required reserves. 
Letter to International Bank of Commerce, 
3 
Seattle, Washington, approving an amendment 
to the corporation's articles of association. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
4 
York regarding that Bank's regional check 
clearing arrangements. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
5 
St. Louis authorizing that Bank to purchase 
a
 new building site for the Memphis Branch 
a t
 a price of approximately $600,300, 
instead of the price estimated at the time 
negotiations were originally authorized. 
Letter to the Chairman of the Foreign 
6 
Operations and Government Information Sub-
committee of the House Committee on Govern-
ment Operations updating the Board's 
r
esponses to a 1963 questionnaire relating 
t o
 the policies and practices used by 
Federal agencies in gathering and dissem-
inating information to the public and the 
Congress. 
In connection with Item No. 4, Governor Brimmer raised the 
question how the New York area check clearing bureau operations fitted 
in with the concept underlying the current exploration of the possi-
bility of establishing regional check clearing arrangements more 

990 
3/16/67 
-7-
generally throughout the country. Mr. Farrell replied in terms that 
the New York arrangements involved only the participating local banks. 
He saw no prospect of opening up those particular operations. On the 
other hand, they resulted in a saving as compared with processing items 
through the Reserve Bank. In other words, while they were advantageous, 
they did not go as far as the arrangements contemplated by the current 
studies. 
In connection with Item No. 5, the distributed memorandum from 
the Division of Bank Operations noted that on September 21, 1966, the 
Board had authorized the St. Louis Reserve Bank to negotiate for the 
acquisition of the proposed site for a new Memphis Branch building at 
a
 price of approximately $530,000. From negotiations with the Memphis 
Housing Authority, it developed that the gross purchase price of the 
Property would be about $600,300. The Reserve Bank had had two inde-
pendent appraisals made of the property, both of which suggested a fair 
market value in excess of $1 million. 
With respect to Item No. 6, discussion centered principally on 
the response to be made to the question whether individual votes on 
°fficial agency actions were made public. The draft reply pointed out 
that the individual votes of Board members were made public in orders 
§
r
anting or denying applications under the Bank Merger Act and the Bank 
^°lding Company Act, and that votes of members of the Open Market Com-
mittee and the Board on policy matters were published in the Board's 

991 
3/16/67 
-7-
annual reports. As to other official actions of the Board, public 
disclosure of the votes of individual members usually had not been 
made. However, the Board was currently re-examining its functions and 
categories of records for the purpose of developing new rules and pro-
cedures as required under the provisions of the Freedom of Information 
Act, which would become effective July 4, 1967. 
Question was raised whether public disclosure of the votes of 
individual Board members on policy actions had not, in fact, been made 
more frequently than the draft of reply would seem to suggest. In dis-
cussion, however, Governor Robertson expressed the view that the fact 
that exceptions had been made through disclosing the votes on certain 
official actions upon the taking of those actions should not occasion 
a
 reply that would have the effect of binding the Board to such a pro-
cedure for the future. It seemed preferable that the Board decide on 
1
ts procedure as the circumstances warranted. Governor Brimmer suggested 
that the answer be in terms that from time to time the Board had made 
disclosure of the votes of individual members. Governor Maisel pointed 
0 u
t that there were substantial areas, for example the issuance of 
interpretations, where the Board had not chosen, up to this point, to 
Publish votes. Mr. Hackley agreed that it would be misleading and 
inaccurate to say that the Board had regularly followed the practice 
°f disclosing votes on official actions in categories other than those 
specified in the draft reply. He noted that the term "official agency 

992 
3/16/67 
-7-
action" might be construed in different ways. He added that under the 
Freedom of Information Act votes presumably would have to be made known 
upon request even though they were not published. 
There followed further discussion along such lines, including 
the extent to which in the past year or so votes of individual Board 
members on policy actions had in fact been disclosed prior to publica-
tion of the Annual Report. Several suggestions were made for language 
that would accurately reflect the actual practice, and it was indicated 
that the Board would not at this particular juncture wish to make a 
fundamental decision as to what procedures would be followed regularly 
in the future. As a result of the discussion, language such as had been 
Proposed earlier by Governor Brimmer was agreed upon. 
Application of Bank of Sussex County (Items 7 and 8). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's denial on February 20, 1967, of the application of The Bank of 
Sussex County, Franklin, New Jersey, to merge with The Hardyston National 
Bank, Hamburg, New Jersey. 
Issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies of 
the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 7 and 8. 
Application of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company (Items 9-11). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on February 20, 1967, of the application of 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, to 

993 
3/16/67 
-7-
merge with First National Bank of Morganton, Morganton, North Carolina. 
A dissenting statement by Governor Robertson had also been distributed. 
Issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies of 
the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 9 and 10. A copy of 
the dissenting statement is attached as Item No. 11. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On March 15, 1967, 
Governor Shepardson approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland (copy attached as 
.Item No. 12) approving the appointment of David E. Taylor as assistant 
examiner. 
Memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated March 14, 
1967, recommending the establishment of a temporary economist position in 
the Asia, Africa, and Latin America Section for a period of approximately 
90 days during the summer of 1967. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Anointment 
David D. Kulig as Summer Law Clerk, Legal Division, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $5,331, effective the date of entrance 
u
Pon duty. 
.Salary increases 
Barbara Ann Kemp, Stenographer, Office of the Controller, from 
v^,776 to $5,331 per annum, with a change in title to Secretary, effec-
tive March 26, 1967. 
Valerie M. Parry, Payroll Clerk (Trainee), Office of the Controller, 
from $4 ,269 to $4,776 per annum, with a change in title to Payroll Clerk, 
effective March 26, 1967. 

994 
3/16/67 
-7-
Pursuant to the recommendation contained in 
a memorandum from the Director of the Division 
of Examinations dated March 15, 1967, Governor 
Shepardson today authorized on behalf of the 
Board payment of the cost of moving the house-
hold effects of Charles C. Walcutt, Assistant 
Chief Federal Reserve Examiner, from Stamford, 
Connecticut, to the Washington, D. C., area. 
i 

995 
..•^OfCOW,-
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/16/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 16, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Schenectady Trust Company, 
Schenectady, New York. 
Gentlemens 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to April 5, 1968, the time within which 
The Schenectady Trust Company, Schenectady, New York, 
may establish a branch in the County Line Shopping 
Center on State Route 7, Town of Colonie (unincorporated 
area), Albany County, New York. The establishment of 
this branch was authorized in a letter dated April 5, 
1966. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

996 
BOARD OF 
GOVERNORS 
I t e m No. 2 
n F T H E 
3 / 1 6 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 16, 1967 
A. J. Stanton, 
Manager, Accounting Department, 
federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045. 
^ear Mr. Stanton: 
This refers to your letter of March 3, regarding a penalty 
°f $113.94 incurred by the Glen Ridge Trust Company, Glen Ridge, 
Jersey, on a 4.6 per cent deficiency in its required reserves 
the reserve computation period ended February 1, 1967. 
It is noted that the deficiency resulted primarily from 
a
 delay in the receipt by your Bank of instructions concerning the 
S a
le of securities from the member bank's safekeeping account, that 
the proceeds from the sale were credited to its reserve account one 
d a
y later than the bank had expected, that the penalty cannot be 
W a
ived under Paragraph E of the Board's instructions, and that the 
Member bank has a good record of maintaining its required reserves. 
In the circumstances, the Board authorizes your Bank 
t o
 waive assessment of the penalty of $113.94 due for the reserve 
computation period ended February 1, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

997 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 6 
3/16/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
OF 
T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 16, 1967 
International Bank of Commerce, 
1100 Second Avenue, 
P. 0. Box 3966, 
Seattle, Washington. 
98124 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of February 14, 
1967, advising of the adoption of a resolution by the 
shareholders of your Corporation amending the Articles of 
Association of International Bank of Commerce to change 
the number of directors from seven to not less than five 
nor more than twenty-five. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment 
to Article FIFTH. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

998 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 6 
3/16/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
O F T H E 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRCSPONOENCC 
TO THE BOARD 
March 16, 1967 
Mr. M. A. Harris, 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Harris: 
The 1966 operations of the check clearing bureaus of the 
Long Island Bankers Association, Inc., and the Bergen County 
Clearing Association, as reported in your letter of February 16, 1967, 
have been noted with interest. 
Since the two bureaus continue to provide efficient check 
collection services at a saving to your Bank, with significant 
benefits to the participating banks and their depositors, the Board 
sees no reason for any change at this time in the basic agreements 
concerning this service. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE SERVICE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
March 16, 1967. 
Francis - St. Louis 
Reurlet March 9, 1967, Board authorizes your Bank to purchase 
new building site for Memphis Branch at price of approximately 
$600,300, instead of $530,000, which was price estimated when 
Board authorized negotiations with Memphis Housing Authority 
for the property on September 21, 1966. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
' SHERMAN 
999 
Item No. 5 
3/16/67 

1 0 0 0 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
2 Q S 5 I 
Item No. 6 
3/16/67 
O F F I C E O F THS 
CHAIRMAN 
March 16, 1967 
The Honorable John E. Moss, 
Chairman, 
Foreign Operations and Government 
Information Subcommittee, 
Committee on Government Operations, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D, C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman; 
This is in response to your letter of February 6, 1967 
relating to the answers submitted by the Board of Governors on 
September 17, 1963 to a questionnaire of the Foreign Operations 
and Government Information Subcommittee of the House Committee 
on Government Operations with reference to policies and practices 
used by Federal agencies in gathering and disseminating informa-
tion to the public and the Congress. 
The Board's answers to the four parts of the question-
naire have been updated to cover fiscal 1966 and are enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Win. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 

1001 
REPLIES TO HOUSE FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND GOVERNMENT 
INFORMATION SUBCOMMITTEE QUESTIONNAIRE COVERING FISCAL 1966 
I. Public Information. 
A. Please answer the following questions relating 
to your agency's system for developing, preparing and 
releasing information to the public. 
1. Explain how public information operations 
fit into the agency's organizational structure and 
answer the following: 
a. Do public information personnel par-
ticipate in discussions leading to the agency's major 
policy decisions? 
b. Do public information personnel, them-
selves, provide material requested by the press and 
the public or do they direct inquiries to knowledgeable 
operating personnel when possible? 
1. The Board of Governors recognizes that it is essential 
for the public to be as well informed as possible regarding the 
System's functions as the country's central banking institution. 
The 
information it disseminates, although consisting largely of financial, 
economic, and banking data, is intended to serve that purpose. 
There is no public information office or unit, designated 
as such, in the Board's organization; however, functions of this nature 
are a special responsibility of two Assistants to the Board and are 
shared by other officers and members of the staff in each of the Board's 
divisions and Offices. These include the Office of the Secretary, the 
Legal Division, the Divisions of Research and Statistics, International 
Finance, Bank Operations, Examinations, Personnel Administration, 
Administrative Services, and Data Processing, as well as the Offices 
°f the Controller and Defense Planning. 

•1002 
-14-
a. Members of the staff, including the Assistants to 
the Board mentioned above, attend meetings of the Board at which 
Policy decisions are reached and they may participate in the dis-
cussions. 
b. Written inquiries are directed to the Office of the 
Secretary or to the Division within the Board's organization having 
responsibility or knowledge regarding the subject of the inquiry. 
Telephone requests for material may be handled in the office of the 
Assistants to the Board or by knowledgeable operating personnel within 
^ e Board's organization. Members of the press are free to, and 
frequently do, communicate directly with staff specialists in the 
Particular area of the Board's operations relevant to the subject 
m a
tter of their specific inquiries. 
2. Estimate the total man-hours spent 
by your agency's public information personnel 
during fiscal 1966 on: 
a. Replying to inquiries from the 
press or public (also estimate number of such 
items for the same period). 
b. Preparing materials originated 
by your agency for public dissemination. 
2. a. Replies to inquiries from the press and the public 
a r e
 handled by many members of the staff. Records are not maintained 
the number of inquiries received and the amount of time spent 
l n
 ^ i s phase of the Board's work. Accordingly, it is not possible to 
e s
timate the number of man-hours involved with any degree of accuracy. 
So f a 
as the two Assistants to the Board having special responsibility 

1003 
-3-
in the public information area (and their secretarial aides) are 
concerned, it is estimated that about half their time is spent in 
answering inquiries from the press and the public, amounting to approx-
imately 4,000 man-hours per year for the four persons. A number of 
other persons have some responsibility for handling inquiries from the 
press and the public; their time might equal that of one full-time 
person. 
b. A considerable portion of the staff's time is spent in 
providing the Board with economic information necessary for formulation 
of monetary and credit policy. As a public service, some of this 
information is released to the public. 
It is difficult to furnish an accurate estimate of the 
amount of time spent solely in preparation of materials for public 
dissemination. By way of example, preparation of articles for the 
monthly Federal Reserve Bulletin, which is the official publication 
of the Board, is not assigned to a special staff maintained expressly 
for that purpose. Authorship of articles in the Bulletin is distri-
buted among various members of the Board's staff--principally the 
economic specialists in various sections of the Board's Division of 
Research and Statistics and International Finance, depending on the 
subject. Over-all coordination is carried out by an Editorial Committee 
comprising six members of the staff, one of whom is one of the Assistants 
to the Board referred to above. 
Despite the difficulties involved in arriving at an estimate, 
i t :
 seems probable that the equivalent of approximately 5 persons devote 

1004 
-3-
the bulk of their time to the preparation of materials for dissemina-
tion to the public, amounting on an annual basis to about 10,000 
man-hours. This rough estimate does not include the staff time spent 
in preparing some of the material in its original form for the use of 
the Board. 
3. Enumerate, by job title and grade, all 
agency employees in positions officially designated 
as part of your agency's public information opera-
tions. Also, state the total salary costs for such 
personnel for fiscal 1966. 
3. As indicated in response to question (1), the Board has 
no employees in positions officially designated as public information 
operations. Employees of the Board of Governors are not under Civil 
Service, and the grades and titles of their positions are not subject 
to the rules of the Classified Service. On the assumption that all 
°f the time of one person and half of the time of the personnel most 
directly involved (the two Assistants to the Board, and their secretarial 
a3
-des) was spent in answering inquiries from the press and the public; 
fc
he salary cost amounted to $40,544 during the fiscal year 1966. i n additi 
t h
e salary cost for the five persons devoting the bulk of their time to the 
Preparation of materials for dissemination to the public was $48,496. 
4. List any private organizations or 
individuals hired by your agency for public 
information services during fiscal 1966 and 
state the amount paid in each instance. 
4. No private organizations or individuals were hired by the 
^°ard of Governors for public information services during fiscal 1966. 

1 0 0 5 
-5-
5. List or provide a catalogue of all 
publications excluding press releases, origi-
nated by your agency for distribution to the 
public during fiscal 1966 and state: 
a. The total number of such publi-
cations distributed during fiscal 1966; and 
b. Which publications, if any, are 
alloted to Members of Congress for their distri-
bution to the public. 
5. The Board continues to distribute its basic publications--
The Federal Reserve System--Purposes and Functions, the Federal Reserve 
Act, the Flow-of-Funds Study, etc., as well as reprints of selected 
articles from the Federal Reserve Bulletin and, since September 1965, 
Staff Economic Studies summarized in the Bulletin. Publications orig-
inated by the Board for general distribution during fiscal 1966 and 
the number of each distributed during that year are shown below, with 
the exception of regulations of the Board, press releases, and other 
Periodic releases--primarily statistical in nature. No special alloca-
tion is made to members of Congress for distribution to the public; 
however, publications are furnished on request. 
Number of copies 
distributed dur-
Publications 
ing fiscal 1966 
Annual Report of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System. 
10,856 
federal Reserve Bulletin. 
(Monthly average 26,432) 
317,178 
federal Reserve Chart Book on Financial and 
Business Statistics. 
(Monthly average 3,700) 
44,400 
historical Chart Book. Annual. 
11,164 
^ 
i 
A
 charge is made for these publications. 

•20 
-14-
Number of copies 
distributed dur-
Publications (cont'd) 
ing fiscal 1966 
Separate reprints of 15 articles appearing in the 
Federal Reserve Bulletin, July 1965-June 1966. 
22,221 
Staff Economic Studies (17). 
10,822 
^Monetary Theory and Policy: A Bibliography. 1965. 
1,756 
^Trading in Federal Funds. 1965. 
1,930 
*Merchant and Dealer Credit in Agriculture. 1966. 
935 
*U.S. Treasury Advance Refunding. 1966. 
975 
*Suppl ement to Banking and Monetary Statistics. 
Section 16. (New) Consumer Credit. 1965. 
1,155 
Section 9. Federal Reserve Banks. 1965. 
1,283 
Section 12. Money Rates and Securities Markets, 1966. 
1,405 
r
 A charge is made for these publications. 
6. Estimate the total of all other 
identifiable operating costs attributable to 
public information operations during fiscal 
1966 (i.e., cost of equipment and materials 
used in disseminating information, travel ex-
penses of public information personnel, press 
tours, etc). 
6. The only operating cost attributable to public information 
°Perations in fiscal 1966 that can be identified precisely is that 
involved in printing the publications listed in response to question (5). 
^he cost of printing the items listed in response to question (5) amounted 
t o
 approximately $232,053, the greater portion of which was for the 
Federal Reserve Bulletin, $181,280; the Annual Report for calendar 1965 
^Presented to Congress April 29, 1966), $17,101; and the monthly and 
a n
nual Federal Reserve Chart Books, $9,129. A portion of these costs 
^^2,568) was recovered by the sale of publications during fiscal 1966. 

1007 
-3-
The total trdVel expenses of the two Assistants to the Board 
during fiscal 1966 amdurtted to $463; 
The Board has never conducted 
press tours or similar activities. 
7. If your agency requires personnel not 
directly involved in public information operations 
to report contacts made with them by the press, 
please explain briefly the procedures followed. 
7. Members of the Board's staff are not required to report 
contacts made with them by the press. 
3. Please provide two copies of all intra-
agency regulations, administrative orders, direc-
tives, rules, instructions, legal opinions, etc., 
which pertain directly to the matters covered in 
the above questions. Also, please cite statutes, 
court decisions, and executive orders which per-
tain directly to the above matters. 
8. The Board has no regulations, administrative orders, 
directives, rules, instructions, legal opinions, or other materials 
that are directly pertinent to the subject matter of the above questions. 
However, the Board, in implementing its system for developing, preparing, 
at
*d releasing information to the public, acts, where and as appropriate, 
in accord with the following regulatory and statutory provisions, which 
a r e
 set forth with the thought that they may be of interest in connection 
w
ith your inquiry: 
section 261.1, 261,2, and 261.3 of the Board's Rules 
Regarding Information, Submittals, and Requests, section 262.2(f)(7) 
o f
 the Board's Rules of Procedure, section 263.2 of the Board's Rules 
o f
 Practice for Formal Hearings, and section 264.735-6(f) of the Board's 
Standards of Employee Responsibilities and Conduct (12 CFR 261.1, 261.2, 

1008 
-5-
261.3, 262.2(f)(7), 263.2, and 264.735-6(f)), two copies of which are 
enclosed, dealing with published and unpublished information; the public 
information provisions of sections 3 and 4(a) of the Administrative 
Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 552, 553 (Sept. 1966 ed)) (Note: ~ The Freedom 
of Information Act, Public Law 89-487, 80 Stat. 250, became law after 
the end of fiscal year 1966 and will become effective July 4, 1967); 
and the reporting requirements of sections 10, 11(a), and 14(b) of 
the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 247, 247a, 248(a), 355), section 
2/18/(C) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the Bank Merger Act) 
(12 U.S.C. 1828(c), as amended in 1966 by Public Law 89-356, 80 Stat. 7), 
section 5(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1844(d)), 
and section 23(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 
78w(b)). See also section 2 of the Federal Reports Act of 1942 (56 
Stat. 1078, 44 U.S.C. 421 (formerly 5 U.S.C. 139)) regarding tabulation 
information in a manner to maximize its usefulness to the public, 
and section 3709 of Revised Statutes and Executive Orders 10479 and 
1°557 regarding contracts for the services of private organizations 
individuals. 

•1009 
-14-
II. Congressional Information. 
A . Please answer the following questions 
relating to your agency's system for researching, 
developing and supplying information to the Congress. 
1. Explain how the Congressional informa-
tion function fits into the agency's organizational 
structure and answer the following: 
a. Do Congressional information 
personnel participate in discussions leading to 
the agency's major policy decisions? 
b. Do Congressional information 
personnel, themselves, provide material requested 
or answers to questions asked by Members of 
Congress and their offices and Committee staffs 
or do they direct inquirers to knowledgeable 
operating personnel when possible? 
1. The Board's Legislative Counsel is most directly concerned 
with the Congressional information function. The Board's Organization 
M a n u a l d e s c r i b e s his d u t i e s as f o l l o w s : 
"Acts as liaison between the Board and Committees of 
Congress concerned with System operations; attends hearings 
dealing with the System; and supervises disposition for 
appropriate action, all legislative bills and requests for 
information relating to the System." 
a. The Legislative Counsel attends meetings of the Board 
at which matters directly affecting the Board's relations with 
Congress are discussed, and may participate in the discussions. 
The 
degree of participation in discussions preceding major policy 
decisions varies, of course, depending on the extent to which 
legislative matters are involved. 

101.0 
-10-
b» 
Most Congressional requests for information are referred 
to knowledgeable operating personnel. This is true of virtually all 
questions that require written answers, but it is also true of other 
requests for information if the person seeking it shows an interest 
in details that can best be supplied by operating personnel. 
2. Estimate the total man-hours spent by 
personnel of your agency directly involved in the 
Congressional information function during fiscal 
1966 on: 
a. Replying to Congressional informa-
tion requests from individual Members of Congress. 
(Also provide number of such items for same period.) 
b. Replying to Congressional committee 
inquiries, including requests for agency's views on 
pending legislation. 
(Also provide number of such 
items for same period.) 
c. Preparing materials originated by 
the agency for presentation to the Congress. 
2. Since virtually the entire staff of the Board is from 
time to time involved in one way or another in providing information 
to Congress, the question as to personnel "directly involved" in this 
function would seem to cover the Legislative Counsel and his Secretary, 
who devote about half their time to providing information for Congress 
and the other half to informing the Board about developments in 
C o n g r e s s . 
N e c e s s a r i l y , this is a r o u g h e s t i m a t e , a n d e n t a i l s 
allocating to one purpose or the other considerable time spent in 
reading, record-keeping, etc., which is incidental to the two main 
purposes. 

101.0 
-10-
Records are not available to give an exact breakdown as to 
how much time is spent by the Legislative Counsel and his Secretary 
in replying to requests from individual Members of Congress. 
Assuming, 
as seems reasonable, that about half of their time (approximately 
2,000 man-hours a year) is allocable to providing information to the 
Congress, a reasonable estimate would be that two-thirds of this time 
(or 1,332 man-hours) is spent on Committee requests, one-sixth (or 
334 man-hours) on requests from individual Members of Congress, and 
the remaining one-sixth on material originating in the Board for 
presentation. Our records show that in fiscal 1966 the Board received 
54 requests from Committees for reports on legislation, but the records 
do not readily disclose the number of other Committee requests or 
requests from individual Members. 
3. Enumerate all agency employees, by job 
title and grade, in positions directly involved in 
preparing and providing information to the Congress. 
Also, list the total salary costs for such personnel 
for fiscal 1966. 
3. As explained above, this question seems to apply to the 
legislative Counsel and his Secretary. The Board's staff is not under 
t
he Civil Service, and the grades and titles of these positions are 
n
ot subject to the rules of the Classified Service. That part of the 
salary cost attributable to providing information to the Congress for 
t h
e two positions in fiscal 1966 was $16,210. 
4. Estimate the total of all other identifiable 
operating costs attributable to the Congressional infor-
mation function during fiscal 1966. 

•1012 
-14-
4. Other operating costs attributable to the Congressional 
information function would include preparation of the Board's Annual 
Report to Congress, involving participation by practically all of the 
Board's senior personnel and professional staff. Many were also 
involved at one time or another during fiscal 1966 in preparing 
responses to special Congressional inquiries, testimony for Board 
members before Congressional committees, and reports on legislation. 
Since detailed records are not kept of the amount of time spent by 
various individuals in these areas, a useful estimate of the cost is 
not available. 
5. If your agency requires personnel not 
directly involved in the Congressional information 
function to report contacts made with them by members 
of Congress or Congressional staffs, please explain 
briefly the procedures followed. 
5. The procedure for keeping the Legislative Counsel 
informed of Congressional requests was outlined in a memorandum dated 
January 7, 1958 to heads of divisions of the Board's staff, which 
Provided that telephone and written communications from Congressional 
sources relating to legislation or the furnishing of information to 
members of Congress and Congressional committees should be reported 
Promptly to the Legislative Counsel and that letters or memoranda replying 
t o
 such requests should pass through his office before they were sent. 
•'•he memorandum also provided that the same procedure should be followed 
w
ith respect to communications from and to the Budget Bureau or other 
a
2encies of the government with respect to proposed legislation. 

1013 
-3-
6. Please provide two copies of all intra-agency 
regulations, administrative orders, directives, rules, 
instructions, legal opinions, etc., which pertain directly 
to the matters covered in the above questions. Also, 
please cite statutes, court decisions, and executive 
orders which pertain directly to the above matters. 
6. Other than the instructions quoted in the reply to ques-
tion 5 (two copies of which are enclosed), the Board has no regulations, 
administrative orders, directives, rules, instructions, legal opinions, 
°
r
 other materials directly pertinent to the subject matter of the 
above questions, nor are there statutes, court decisions, or executive 
°tders that relate directly to the Board's activities in this area. 
However, of interest in this connection may be the reporting require-
ments of sections 10 and 14(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
247a and 355), section 2/l8/(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
A c t
 (the Bank Merger Act) (12 U.S.C. 1828(c) as amended in 1966 by Public 
L a w 8 9
~356, 80 Stat. 7), section 5(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
0 f
 !956 (12 U.S.C. 1844(d)), and section 23(b) of the Securities Exchange 
A c t
 of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78w(b)). 

•1014 
-14-
III. Classification of Security Information: 
A. How many individuals in your agency are 
authorized to classify information "Top Secret" under 
Executive Order 10501? 
B. How many are authorized to classify "Secret"? 
C. How many are authorized to classify "Confidential"? 
A , B, and C. Inasmuch as the Board has no authority under 
Executive Order 10501 to classify defense information or material, the 
answers to Questions A , B, and C are None. 
D. Please estimate cost of administering security 
provisions under Executive Order 10501 during fiscal 1966. 
(Reflect in the estimate the cost of personnel to classify, 
declassify and disseminate security information and the 
cost of security protection including the transmission, 
storage and disposition of such information.) 
D* 
Since, as stated above, the Board is without authority 
to classify defense information, and since the volume of classified 
material received from other agencies is relatively small, the cost 
of administering the security provisions of Executive Order 10501 is 
so slight as to be negligible. 
E. What terms, in addition to those provided 
in Executive Order 10501, does your agency use to 
designate information not available to the public? 
Please provide two copies of each intra-agency 
regulation, administrative order, instruction or 
other internal document pertinent to such designation. 

•1015 
-14-
E. The term "Confidential (F.R,)" has been designated at 
the Board to indicate that a document is intended for internal use and 
is not available to the public; an explanation disseminated at the 
Board with respect to the term is in the form of a memorandum to 
Division Heads dated December 15, 1953, two copies of which are 
attached. Also attached for convenient reference are two copies of 
the Board's letter of January 18, 1956, to Chairman Moss of the 
Government Information Subcommittee of the House Committee on Govern-
ment Operations, giving detailed information regarding the term and 
the circumstances that gave rise to its adoption. 
While "Confidential 
F.R." is the usual designation for material not intended for distribution 
to the public, on occasion other less restrictive terms such as "Not 
for Publication" are used to indicate that certain material for one 
reason or another--for example, figures are preliminary-is not intended 
for general circulation, although it may have limited distribution 
outside the System. 
F. Please cite the specific statutes, court 
decisions and executive orders claimed as authority 
for restricting public access to any non-security 
information under control of your agency. 
F. 
The Board's authority for restricting public access to 
n
on-security information under its control (see enclosed copies of 
s e
ction 261.2 of the Board's Rules Regarding Information, Submittals, 
ar
»d Requests (12 CFR 261.2)) has been derived primarily from (1) the 
Provisions of section 3 of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 
5 5 2
> , which permits nonpublication and nondisclosure of any information 
t o
 the extent that it involves functions requiring nondisclosure in the 

10.16 
^16-
i 
.i, " 
'
 :
 , 
! • . ;
 
:
 _; 
, 
public interest and matters which for good bause found are held confi-
; i 
. ' 
' 
dential> and (2) the authority Contained in section ll(i) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(i)) to make rules and regulations necessary 
to enable the Board effectively to perform its duties, functions or 
services. Also officers and employees of the United States are prohib-
ited by statute (18 U.S.C. 1905) from disclosing financial or business 
information regarding particular persons or institutions; and disclosure 
°f information by bank examiners is also restricted by statute (18 
U
.S.C. 1906). 
Section 30 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 77), which 
w
as in effect at the close of fiscal year 1966, but is not currently in 
e
ffect, related to the removal of officers or directors of member banks, 
and expressly provided that the Board's order and findings of fact in 
a n y 
su
°h case shall not be made public or disclosed to anyone except the 
director or officer involved and the directors of the bank involved, 
° t h e r w i s e than in connection with proceedings for a violation of section 
3 0
 • Section 30 of the Banking Act of 1933 was repealed on October 16, 
by section 207 of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 
*966 (80 Stat. 1028), under the terms of which, said repeal remains 
e
ffective through June 30, 1972, at which time section 30 of the Banking 
Ac t 
automatically is reenacted into law. 
Section 3 of the Administrative Procedure Act was amended by 
P u b
U c Law 89-487, 80 Stat. 250, to become effective July 4, 1967. The 
JJ°ard j 
J-s currently re-examining its various categories of records in order 

•1017 
-14-
to develop rules and procedures to implement the requirements of the 
new law. 
While the Board is not aware of any court decisions directly 
on the point of nondisclosure of information by the Board itself, the 
courts have recognized the confidentiality of information contained 
in reports of examination of banking institutions. Bank of America v. 
Douglas, 105 F. 2d 100 (1939). 
Multi-Headed Agencies f Commissions, Boards, etc. 
If your agency is a multi-headed organization, 
or if your agency has multi-headed units under its 
jurisdiction, please answer the following questions, 
(if there is more than one such subordinate activity, 
provide separate responses for each.) 
A. How soon after official actions (i.e., 
rulings, recommendations, etc.) are majority and 
minority (or concurring and dissenting) opinions or 
views made public? 
A. Official actions of the Board are in general made 
P
u
M i c as promptly as possible after a decision has been made and 
the necessary documentation has been prepared. Certain policy actions, 
S U c
h as those involving discount rates, margin requirements, and 
m a
ximum rates of interest, are usually announced almost immediately 
a f
ter action is taken. 
In cases arising under the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) or 
t h e
 Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C 
1841), the Board's Order, 
Statement, and any dissenting views are usually made public within one 
of approval. 

101.0 
-10-
Actions of the Board and of the Federal Open Market Committee, 
on all matters of policy, together with the votes taken therewith and 
a statement of reasons for the actions, are published in the Board's 
Annual Report to the Congress, as required by section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C, 247a). 
The Board does not ordinarily make public its reports to 
the Congress on legislation and other matters, although such reports 
often become a matter of public record at the discretion of Congressional 
committees. The Board's reports on competitive factors submitted to 
the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828 (c)) are 
available on request, as are competitive factor reports submitted to 
the Board by the other bank supervisory agencies and the Department of 
Justice on bank merger applications acted upon by the Board. 
Other official actions of the Board such as disposition of 
Procedural or substantive petitions or motions, promulgation or 
amendment of rules or regulations, interpretations of statutory or 
r e
gulatory provisions having general applicability, and similar 
matters are usually made public, where possible, within one day of the 
action thereon. In the rare cases where the only public notification 
is by 
publication in the Federal Register the elapsed time between 
a c t
i o n and public notice will usually be three or four days. Actions 
o f
 general interest are also published monthly in the Federal Reserve 
B u
U e t i n . 

•1019 
-14-
B. Does the agency require the circulation 
of dissenting or minority views among the various heads 
of the agency before release to the public? 
B. There is no formal requirement that dissenting or 
minority views of Board members be circulated among the other members 
prior to release to the public. However, as a matter of courtesy and 
orderly procedure this practice is usually followed. 
C. After an official agency action, are the 
individual votes of the various agency heads made public? 
C. The individual votes of members of the Board are made 
public in the order granting or denying applications under the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828 (c)) and the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956 (12 U.S.C, 1841). Also, as required by section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 247a), votes of the members of the Federal Open 
Market Committee and the Board of Governors on policy matters are 
Published in the Board's annual report to the Congress. In other 
official actions of the Board, public disclosure of the vote of 
individual members has been made from time to time. The Board is 
currently re-examining its functions and its categories of records for 
the purpose of developing new rules and procedures as required under 
the provisions of The Freedom of Information Act (sec. 3 of Administrative 
Procedure Act) to become effective July 4, 1967. 

•1020 
-14-
D. Please cite the specific statutes, court 
decisions and executive orders pertinent to the above 
information policies and provide two copies of each 
intra-agency regulation, administrative order, 
instruction or other document pertinent to such 
policies. 
D. Other than section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act 
(12 U.S.C. 247a), cited above, there is no statutory provision 
requiring votes of members of the Board on official actions to be 
published. The Board is not aware of any court decisions or exec-
utive orders affecting the Board in this regard, nor has the Board 
issued regulations, administrative orders, or instructions bearing 
upon the above-mentioned information policies. 
Attachments 5 
March 16, 1967. 

1021 
Item No. 6 
3/16/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C„ 
I n
 
M a t t e r o f the A p p l i c a t i o n o f 
^ 
BANK OF SUSSEX COUNTY 
thi approval of merger with 
H a
rdyston National Bank 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF 
MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
H e
rger Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1828(c), Public Law 89-356), an 
C a
tion by The Bank of Sussex County, Franklin, New Jersey, a State 
'er h i 
°nk of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval 
m
erger of that bank and The Hardyston National Bank, Hamburg, 
K k 
0 f
 the 
ft 
J e r s G
y , under the charter and title of The Bank of Sussex County. 
As a n 
ncident to the merger, the three offices of The Hardyston National 
°
U l d b
ecome branches of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed 
in f 
rorm approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said 
u
Pon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
^toi 
t h e
 fac 
c t
ors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
^Oli 
of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

1022 
-5-
ar
*d the A t t o r n e y G e n e r a l o n the c o m p e t i t i v e factors i n v o l v e d in the 
Proposed m e r g e r , 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
i s
 denied. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 16th day of March, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Shepardson, Mitchell, 
Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
(signed) 
Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1023 
Item No. 6 
3/16/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE BANK OF SUSSEX COUNTY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE HARDYSTON NATIONAL BANK 
STATEMENT 
The Bank of Sussex County, Franklin, New Jersey ("Sussex 
with total deposits of about $36 million, has applied, pursuant 
t o
 ^ e Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c), as amended by Public 
V
 89-356)j for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank 
The Hardyston National Bank, Hamburg, New Jersey ("Hardyston 
Bank»,v 
1J 
/» which has total deposits of about $9 million. 
The banks 
merge under the charter and name of Sussex Bank, which is a 
^mbeY- 
c , 
k o t
 the Federal Reserve System* As an incident to the merger, 
three offices of Hardyston Bank would become branches of Sussex 
B
ank < 
1/ 
» increasing the number of its offices to eight. 
Competition. - The offices of both banks are in Sussex 
°
Unt
y (population about 63,000), the northernmost county in New 
S t S e y
» situated about 50 miles from New York City. The economy of 
as of December 31, 1966. 
*
n c l
udes one authorized branch that has not yet opened. 

1024 
-2-
the 
6
 County is l a r g e l y d e p e n d e n t on a g r i c u l t u r e and r e s o r t a c t i v i t i e s ; 
r e
cently 5 there has been some industrial and commercial development, 
c
°nfined f o r the most part to the southeastern portion of the County. 
The main office of Hardyston Bank is in northeastern 
U S S e x c
°unty at Hamburg (population about 1,500), approximately two 
one-half miles north of Franklin (population about 3,600), which 
e
 site of the head office of Sussex Bank, Hardyston Bank operates 
0
 ^ranches, one at Ogdensburg and one at Stockholm, about four miles 
a
nd f i v o 
. 
m
iles, respectively, to the south and east of Franklin. 
Sussex 
operates a branch in Sussex Borough and in Vernon Township, about 
five mil 
s 
a n d
 six miles, respectively, to the north and northeast of 
^bxxxp 
o 
Sussex Bank also operates a branch in Andover Township, about 
b
 southwest of Franklin, and the bank has obtained approval to 
s h
 a branch in Hampton Township, about 10 miles west of Franklin. 
The service area~^ of Hardyston Bank, which consists of the 
Astern sector of Sussex County, lies wholly within the service 
o f Sussex Bank. The service areas of the two banks are cotermi-
n
°us e x c e
p t at their southern extremities, where the service area of 
Su
sse3c 
B ank extends further into the central and southern parts of the 
The A n d o v e r b r a n c h a n d the site of the p r o p o s e d H a m p t o n b r a n c h 
S u s
sex Pn i 
oanu are located in this non-coterminous area. The other 
0 f
fte 6 s 
Sussex Bank are in the service area of Hardyston Bank. 
The 
M y 
er banking office in the service area of Hardyston Bank is a 
n
 Wantage Township, about five miles north of Hamburg. 
This 
:1 
— -
6 p 0 s
i t s
 G
f
 f r o m
 
a bank obtains 75 per cent or more of its 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations. 

•1025 
-14-
b r a
nch is operated by Peoples National Bank, which is headquartered in 
p a r t
a , about five miles south of Franklin, Peoples National Bank is 
newest (established in 1964) and smallest (deposits of about $4 
^ U i o n ) bank in Sussex County. 
Hardyston Bank and Sussex Bank offer essentially the same 
kind 
s
 °f banking services, and they are strong competitors. Sussex 
der-fir 
6 5
 P
e r
 cent of its deposits of individuals, partnerships, 
corporations ("IPC deposits") and 57 per cent of its loans from the 
8
ame a r p 
G
a from which Hardyston Bank derives 79 per cent of its IPC 
de
P°sit 
s
 and 81 per cent of its loans. Hardyston Bank obtains 20 per 
C e n t
 and 11 
^ per cent, respectively, of its IPC deposits and loans from 
the 
U n i
cipality in which Sussex Bank's main offices is located. In 
n
> Hardyston Bank obtains 22 per cent and 35 per cent, respec-
' 
its IPC deposits and loans from Vernon Township and Sussex 
> Where Sussex Bank operates branches, 
S u s s e x B a n k , w i t h 32 p e r c e n t o f the IPC d e p o s i t s a n d 
Pe 
cent of the loans, is the largest of the six commercial banks 
e
 headquartered in Sussex County. Hardyston Bank, with 8 per 
n t
 of 
the ip c deposits and 9 per cent of the loans, ranks fifth 
C o u n 
n t
y banks. After the proposed merger, Sussex Bank and the 
*
C
°
nd
 lar gest bank in Sussex County would hold 71 per cent of the IPC 
C
S 
79 
V
 
P e r 
C e n t
 °
f t h e 
l o a n s > 
a n d
 ° P
e r a t e 
1 3 
o f 
t h e 
1 9
 banking 
n
 the County ¥ 
Moreover, while New Jersey law permits 
^lud e s th 
c
nree authorized branches that have not yet opened. 

±026 
-4-
intra-county branching, it prohibits the establishment of branches in 
a m u r i
icipality in which there is already a banking office, either a 
b r
anch or a head office. The potential sites where Sussex County banks 
m i
ght establish branches are considerably limited except for the western 
p 0
^tion of the County, which is sparsely settled. Lafayette Township 
(population about 1,100), situated between Wantage and Andover Townships, 
the only municipality within the service area of either Sussex Bank 
°
r H a r d
y s t o n Bank that has no banking facility. Lafayette Township is 
that portion of the service area of Sussex Bank that is not cotermi-
°
Us
 with the service area of Hardyston Bank. Thus, after the merger, 
S s
ex Bank would control six of the seven banking offices in northeastern 
Su 
S G 2 C c
°unty, the area from which it now derives most of its business. 
The 
e
 Vantage branch of the small Sparta-headquartered bank would be its 
^ocal competitor for commercial banking services in this area of 
y 200 square miles, and no other bank could establish a branch there. 
The merger of Sussex Bank and Hardyston Bank would have a 
s t
antially adverse effect on banking competition. 
F i n a n c i a l a n d m a n a g e r i a l r e s o u r c e s a n d p r o s p e c t s . - A m e r g e r 
a n
ticompetitive effects of the magnitude that are present in this 
C Q
se 
Q
y not be allowed under the amended Bank Merger Act unless the 
S e
 effects for competition would be "clearly outweighed in the 
Pubii interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the 
c
0t\Vern 
l l
ence and needs of the community to be served." 
The banking factors 
Levant to this consideration to the extent that "they throw light 

o ^ 
< 
-5-
of 
capacity of the existing and proposed institutions to serve 
th 
6 c
°mmunity.
,?
~ There is nothing in the banking factors to support 
e
 conclusion that either Sussex Bank or Hardyston Bank faces diffi-
U l t y o f
 sufficient gravity to warrant remedial action in the interests 
Maintaining its s o u n d n e s s , a n d that the p r o p o s e d m e r g e r is the only 
f e a s
i b l e s o l u t i o n to that p r o b l e m / " 
Convenience and needs of the communities, - The merger 
n
°t bring to the communities now served by Sussex Bank and Hardyston 
Batik 
n
y banking services that are materially different from those now 
*
Va
ilabl 
The area in which these communities are located has a credit 
r t a
g e , but the merger would not resolve that problem. Further, the 
would reduce from three to two the alternative sources of banking 
°
es
 in the service area of Hardyston Bank, and for many residents 
Of tha 
area the nearby sources of such services would be reduced from 
^o t o 
This reduction in alternatives, particularly in view of the 
s81nn 
or
*s of State law that preclude the establishment by other banks 
inches i n the area, would be detrimental to the banking convenience 
^ 
need. * 
s
 of the communities now served by Hardyston Bank. 
Summary and conclusion. - The merger of Sussex Bank and 
V d y s t 
B a n k w o u l d e l i m i n a t e s i g n i f i c a n t c o m p e t i t i o n b e t w e e n the b a n k s , 
C t e
ase f-u 
c
ne already heavy concentration of banking resources in Sussex 
Rer 
^ 
N o # 1221, 89th Cong., 2d Sess. 4 (1966). 
• Joseph Volley Bank, 52 Fed. Res. Bulletin 1765 (1966). 

-14-
•1028 
County, and give Sussex Bank virtually exclusive possession of every 
Mailable banking site except one in an area of nearly 200 square miles 
in 
northeastern Sussex County. The sources of banking services in this 
a
*ea would be reduced from three to two, and for many residents the 
convenient sources of such services would be reduced from two to one, 
effect of the merger on banking competition, as well as on the 
inking convenience and needs of the communities involved, would be 
substantially adverse. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application 
should be denied. 
^ h 
16, 1967. 

1029 
Item No. 6 
3/16/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C. 
I n
 the Matter of the Application of 
NACROVIA BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
a
Fproval of merger with 
i r
st National Bank of Ilorganton 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
B a t
* Merger Act, as amended (12 U.S,C. 1828(c), Public Law 89-356), an 
^Plication by Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North 
a State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the 
B
°
ard
's prior approval of th© merger of that bank and First National 
of Morganton, Ilorganton, North Carolina, under the charter and 
titi 
A e
 of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company. As an incident to the merger, 
tlle
 four offices of First National Bank of Morganton would become 
inches of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in 
°
tru a
Pproved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
C 
^ P t r o U e r of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

1030 
-3-
a
nd the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
B o a r d
f
s S t a t e m e n t of this d a t e , that said a p p l i c a t i o n be a n d h e r e b y 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
Dated at Washington, D , C,, this 16th day of March, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Shepardson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
and Brimmer, 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
(signed) 
Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

1031 
Item No. 6 
3/16/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY WACHOVIA BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF MORGANTON 
STATEMENT 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston~Salem, North Carolina 
l
chovi* 
Pur, 
("w achovia"), with total deposits of about $979 million, has applied, 
'
S U a n t
 to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c), as amended by Public 
W 
89 
for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank 
^Ith pf 
I r
s t National Bank of Morganton, Morganton, North Carolina ("First 
n a l
")» which has total deposits of about $15 million. The banks 
m e
rge under the charter and name of Wachovia, which is a member 
b
*nk o f 
the Federal Reserve System* As an incident to the merger, the 
°ffices of First National would become branches of Wachovia, increas-
the n 
v 
1/ 
i e
 number of its offices to 105.~ 
The Board received a letter from a bank headquartered in 
S O r
*vin e > North Carolina, which is about 275 air miles east of 
^tgonto n
i objecting to the merger on the grounds that: 
(1) the bank 
a m e r
g e r proposal to the president of First National which was not 
a s o f J u n e 30^ 
1 9 6 6 a 

1032 
- 2 -
c
°nsidered by the stockholders of First National; and (2) the merger 
u
°uld increase the concentration of North Carolina banking resources to 
Su
ch an extent that it would tend to create a monopoly. 
The Board ascertained that the merger proposal of the 
^testing bank was not considered by the stockholders of First National 
fiCause
 
the merger agreement with Wachovia had already been reached. 
Ihe Reasons for the Board's conclusion that the merger of Wachovia and 
Pir 
s t
 N a t i o n a l w o u l d n o t h a v e a s i g n i f i c a n t l y a d v e r s e e f f e c t on b a n k i n g 
p e t i t i o n are discussed under the competitive factor. In addition, 
it l a 
8
 noted that the protesting bank has only one branch in western 
r Carolina, and it is located about 45 miles from Morganton, The 
jj 
finds no reason to conclude that the protesting bank would be 
V e r s e 3
-y affected by the merger. 
Competition. - The head office of First National is in 
Canton (population about 9,200), which is nearly 100 miles west of 
lit s
ton-Salem and the largest community in Burke County (population 
J J
»000). The bank operates a branch in Morganton and one branch 
e
*ch i n Valdese and Hildebran, about seven miles and 18 miles, respec-
t 4
M v y
> east of Morganton. The Northwestern Bank, which is the State's 
*
tf
th i 
a r
gest bank, operates two branches in Morganton and one branch 
6Q
ch i 
n
 Valdese and Drexel, the latter community being about six miles 
fias
t of 
There are no other banking offices in Burke County. 
^°
r
thwestern Bank and six other banks, including the third, fourth, 
n t
h largest in the State, operate a total of 20 offices in portions 

•1033 
-14-
three of the seven counties that are contiguous to Burke County; 
th 
e
se offices are situated from 16 to 24 miles from Morganton. It does 
n o t
 appear that any of these offices would be adversely affected by the 
The nearest offices of Wachovia to the offices of First 
Clonal are its branches in Asheville, some 54 miles west of Morganton, 
Wachovia d e r i v e s a s i z a b l e d o l l a r a m o u n t of b u s i n e s s from B u r k e 
C
°
Unt
y. For the most part, however, this business is beyond the capabil-
ity 
e s
 of First National; the remainder is of a type for which the bank 
Put„ ^ 
torth little or no competitive effort. For example, Wachovia 
industrial locns to Burke County firms which generally far exceed 
tending limit of First National; Wachovia derives a considerable 
V
°lum of consumer instalment loans from Burke County as a result of 
automobile dealer financing and floor planning in the County, a 
Q
 uhich First National has not entered; further, Wachovia obtains 
volume of trust business from Burke County, nearly all of which 
i s of 
a
 type or size that First National cannot handle. 
The merger would not eliminate any meaningful competition 
Wc 
b 
e e
n Wachovia and First National, nor would it reduce the number of 
^kin 
"8 alternatives located in Burke County. It would be preferable, 
°f c 
U r s
e , for Wachovia to enter Burke County by establishing a de novo 
l
> and North Carolina law does permit State-wide branching. During 
the D 
" ' 
1962-66, Wachovia established a total of 16 de novo branches 
t n
 six * 
communities where it already had offices. During the same period, 

1.0 
-4-
hox^ever, Wachovia's applications to establish a de novo branch in each 
°f two communities where it had no existing office were both denied 
by State authorities; one of these was an application to establish a 
branch in Hickory, which is in Catawba County, only three miles from 
^ e Hildebran office of First National. 
Wachovia 9 with about 22 per cent of the total commercial 
ba
nlc deposits in the State, is the largest bank in North Carolina. The 
acquisition of First National would increase Wachovia
1
s share of the 
State's total commercial bank deposits by about three-tenths of one 
P e r
 cent* 
The five largest banks in North Carolina hold about 66 per 
cent of the State's commercial bank deposits. Viewed in terms of these 
State« Wid e aggregates, the existing concentration of banking resources 
iri
 North Carolina must be regarded as considerable. However, the 
Proposed merger would enable Wachovia to effect a market extension by 
e s
tabli shing offices in a county that is located practically in the 
C e
*ter of a group of 21 contiguous counties in which it presently has 
n o
 offices. 
The effect of the merger on competition would not be 
s l
8 n i f i c a n t l y adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
b a n
king factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to merge are 
S Q
Usfactory, as they would be with respect to the resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The only significant 
e f
fect of the merger on banking convenience and needs would be in Burke 

•1035 
-14-
C
°
u
nty, an industrialized area which contains more than 800 business 
e s
tabli sh m e nts, including over 100 manufacturers. As indicated earlier, 
Fij* 
s t
 National and The Northwestern Bank, the State's fifth largest 
bank > operate the only banking offices in the County. 
First National has not been aggressive in making real estate 
•'•oans 
. 
n a
 consumer instalment loans; the bank does not endeavor to offer 
n
 services, such as construction loans and dealer floor plan loans, 
and 
i 
9
 
general—albeit due in part to its size and low lending l i m i t — 
e s
 available only a limited range of services relative to the needs 
of the 
communities it serves. While the replacement of First National 
b y
 of fir 
e s 
o f
 Wachovia might afford some added convenience for the 
fi
urke County concerns, most of them have ready access to banking 
^tketo 
outside the area. The principal benefit of the merger would be 
t h e
 addiM 
^i-ion of a convenient alternative source of banking services for 
^uals, small local businesses, and intermediate-sized businesses 
a
 scalp 
i e
 c o m m e n s u r a t e w i t h t h e i r n e e d s . 
S u m m a r y a n d c o n c l u s i o n . - I n the j u d g m e n t o f the B o a r d , the 
N o
S
e
d 
merger would benefit the banking convenience and needs of the 
Cou 
U n
t y area, and would not result in any significantly adverse 
C e s
 for banking competition. 
A c c o r d i n g l y , the B o a r d c o n c l u d e s t h a t the a p p l i c a t i o n 
S ! > 0 u l
i b e 
u e
 approved. 
U . 
1 9 6 7 . 

1036 
Item No. 6 
3/16/67 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
In approving this application the majority neglects, in my 
^
u
dgment, to take adequate account of the relevant considerations under 
competitive factor and, at the same time, attributes unwarranted 
Weight to the convenience and needs factor. 
The majority does not consider that the merger will preclude 
development of any meaningful competition in the future between 
^chovia and First National, in part, apparently because it assumes 
the State authorities would not allow Wachovia to establish a de 
^ H o branch in Burke County, This assumption Is based on Wachovia
f
s 
f a i
lure, for reasons not disclosed by the record, in its attempts to 
6 n t e r
 two other communities through the establishment of new branches, 
th 
a t
> without much more, certainly does not establish a sound basis for 
a n a
ssumption that the bank would not be permitted by State authorities 
to 
establish a new branch in Morganton, and thus compete directly with 
the 
e
 bank it is now being permitted to take over. 
However, even if Wachovia had been, and would be, denied an 
Plication to establish a de novo branch in Morganton, I do not think 
its tn 
merger with First National is in the public interest. 
In considering the effects of the merger on banking competition, 
*
e
H as on the convenience and needs of the banking public, the majority 
S s
es the fact that Wachovia offers certain services not provided by 
c
 N a t i o n a l , 
This p o i n t o v e r l o o k s the g r o w t h a n d e x p a n s i o n forces in 
a e r i
c a n b a n k i n g . 
B a n k s c o n t i n u a l l y o f f e r a d d i t i o n a l s e r v i c e s to their 

-as 
1037 
-2-
c
ustomers, and the fact that First National is not presently a vigorous 
competitor in the consumer loan field, for example, does not mean that 
its services would not hereafter be expanded to include this and other 
fields in which it would compete with Wachovia, 
The majority statement creates the impression that First 
National is not in a position to compete with Wachovia for local indus-
trial loans and for other business, intimating that First National's 
r e
sources, either financial or managerial, are not sufficient to support 
s
uch activities. Actually, First National operates through four offices 
a r i d
 has resources of $17 million, and its "ordinary" lending limit is 
^80,000, There is no basis for the inference that an organization 
^ t h these characteristics, operating in a local economy like that of 
County, cannot compete with Wachovia for most of the banking 
business that the locality generates. In brief, the merger will 
e l i
minate not only existing competition, but also the substantial 
P O s
s i b i l i t y that additional competition would develop between the two 
b
ank s % 
T l l e m a j o r i t y
f
s observation that the merger will not reduce the 
n u
m b e r of banking alternatives located in Burke County misses the point; 
th 
e
 ^ r g e r will reduce by one the number of banks competing in the area, 
n d
 that is the correct test. 
In the view of the majority, the fact that Wachovia and the 
n<53ct
 f 0 u r l a r g e s t 
b a n k s 
i n N o r t h Carolina control two-thirds of the State's 
c
°niitierciai banking resources is of no real moment because, in acquiring 
t s t
 National, Wachovia will be establishing offices in the center 

-14-
•1038 
c
°unty of a 21-county area where it presently has no offices. But it 
i s
 significant, I think, that, following the merger, four of the eight 
kanks with offices in Burke County, and nearby in the contiguous counties, 
will be the first, third, fourth, and fifth largest in the State. During 
wie 12 -year period ending June 30, 1966, the five largest banks in North 
M o l i n a acquired 53 banks by merger, and, in the process, they acquired 
l o a
ns in excess of $400 million and deposits of well over $700 million. 
each time a smaller bank is acquired by one of the big five it is 
rn
°
st
 likely to cause other smaller banks that may be nearby to seek 
sit
nilar mergers. The danger is quite clear—unless the trend is halted, 
tlle
 banking alternatives in North Carolina will ultimately be reduced to 
3
 
handful. Those who would be most disadvantaged by a banking 
gopoly are, of course, the small and intermediate-sized banking 
C U s
tomers, since they are confined essentially to local markets for 
banking needs. Ironically, it is the customers in these very 
a t e
g o r i e s that the majority believes it is benefiting by allowing 
^ S e r s of this kind. 
In this connection, it is difficult to comprehend the state-
^ n t K the majority that 
T l l
e principal benefit of the merger would be the addition 
o f
 a convenient alternative source of banking services for 
individuals, small businesses, and intermediate-sized 
b u
sinesses on a scale commensurate with their needs. 
M e n t i o n of this nature would have validity, no doubt, with respect 
t h e
 relatively few large-scale enterprises in First National's service 
1 b u
t I am unable to grasp the concept that the resources of the largest 

1039 
in North Carolina are needed to serve individuals and the majority 
°f business concerns in Burke County "on a scale commensurate with their 
needs". 
Assuming, arguendo, that Burke County requires additional 
inking services for the classes of customers described by the majority, 
is quite clear that this requirement could be met without the jeopardy 
t o
 banking competition that is attendant upon the Wachovia/First National 
^ g e r . As I indicated earlier, First National is quite capable of expand-
i n g
 
services; and the entry of other banks into Burke County through 
the establishment of de novo branches cannot be ruled out. Further, bank-
n
§ services for the classes of customers described by the majority could 
Provided as the r e s u l t o f the m e r g e r of F i r s t N a t i o n a l w i t h a l a r g e r 
ba«k 
u 
out with other than one of the State's largest banking institutions. 
Given these considerations, I think it is shortsighted to 
°
nc
lude that the merger of Wachovia and First National is in the public 
n t e
rest. A competitive banking market is the first requisite to a proper 
X n
g of the banking convenience and needs of a community. The continued 
n a t
i o n of sound, independent banks—such as First National—through 
the dominant banks in North Carolina is inimical to the 
P t e s
ervation of healthy banking competition in the State. In short, I 
V e
 that the continued sanctioning of mergers by these large banks on 
the p bounds relied on by the majority is contrary to the intendment of the 
^ r g e r 
Act and that it can only result in a great detriment to the 
S k t
« 6 PubXic. 
I would deny the application. 
n 
l 6
, 1967. 

1 0 4 0 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20181 
Item No. 6 
3/16/67 
A D D R I I I 
O F T I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 16, 1967 
Mr. Harry W . Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of March 10, 1967, the Board approves the appoint-
ment of David E. Taylor as an assistant examiner for the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Please advise the 
effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
