• 5-67) 
lb 
Minutes for 
May 27, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
: 
t' • 
i&vj ' I. 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
• •. 

1303 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 27, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane \] 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, 
Sigel, Smith, Eckert, Weiner, Fisher, 
Gehman, Kichline, Thompson, Trueblood, and 
Zeisel, and Mrs. Smelker and Miss Stockwell 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, 
Irvine, Emery, Gekker, Karcz, Kohn, Maroni, 
Mills, and Roxon of the Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Economic review. 
The staff presented a review of domestic and 
international economic and financial developments of the kind custom-
arily offered in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Com-
U„< ; V • 
^ittee. The reports were based to a considerable extent on documenta-
tion that had been distributed in preparation for tomorrow's Committee 
r r 
Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

1904 
5/27/68 
-2-
meeting, and copies of the relevant documents have been placed in the 
Committee's files. 
At the conclusion of the staff review Governor Daane withdrew 
from the meeting to keep an appointment at the Treasury. Members of 
Xh,;.. 
the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Smith, and Reynolds also 
t I" i,: -; " 
•••»<,> 
withdrew, as did Mr. Broida and Miss Eaton, and the following entered: 
iU-
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mrs. Heller and Mr. Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull, Golden, Lawrence, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, Kline, Lyon, and Maguire 
of the Division of Examinations 
•••Mks 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
t o the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a 
rePort on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
Th 
a e First Navajo National Bank, Holbrook, Arizona, with The Bank of 
^ U c s°n, Tucson, Arizona. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
7 
'Ac t'» 
There would appear to be no competition existing 
between The First Navajo National Bank, Holbrook, and 
The Bank of Tucson, although there is some potential 

1905 
5/27/68 
-3-
for competition through de novo branching. The trans-
action would reduce the number of commercial banks in 
Arizona from 14 to 13, and the overall competitive 
effect would be slightly adverse. 
Application of First National Bancorporation (Items 1 and 2). 
There had been distributed drafts of a proposed order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on May 7, 1968, of the application of 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to become a 
' Q&C v: 
bank, holding company through acquisition of voting shares of the follow-
ing Colorado banks: The First National Bank of Denver, The First 
National Bank of Bear Valley, Denver, The First National Bank of North 
Glenn, and The First National Bank of Southglenn, Arapahoe County. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized; copies 
the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Application of First Wisconsin Bankshares. As requested at 
, ii.tV-;- 
, ; t 
, , 
. 
the Board meeting on March 26, 1968, in connection with consideration 
the application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of First Northwestern National Bank of 
Milwaukee, a proposed new bank, there had been distributed under date 
°f May 1t 1968, a memorandum from the Legal Division containing a dis-
C U S sion of competitive issues raised by de novo expansion. There had 
also been distributed a memorandum from the Banking Markets Section 
dated May 6, 1968, discussing the competitive effects of the proposed 
accliiisition and recommending that the application be approved. 
(Copies 
these memoranda have been placed in the Board's files.) 

A.kJ 
»J 
5/27/68 
-4-
Members of the Board indicated that they found the staff memo-
randa useful in focusing on the problems with which they had been con-
cerned. The members then expressed their views on the application under 
consideration, and Governor Mitchell stated that he would approve. Gov-
ernor Maisel also stated that he would approve, but only for the reasons 
that (1) banking concentration in the relevant market area had been 
decreasing, and (2) there were a substantial number of fringe banks in 
the area. If there had been only one or two fringe banks, he thought 
the analysis applicable to that kind of situation, as set forth in the 
staff memoranda, would have applied. 
After Governor Sherrill had stated that he would approve, 
Governor Robertson said that he found this a close case. In his view 
the fault in the Banking Markets memorandum was the underlying assump-
tion that the area where the proposed new bank would be located was at 
this time able to support a new bank. Actually, it could support a 
n ew bank only because the holding company could transfer accounts to 
that institution. By approval, the Board would be making it possible 
the largest institution in the area to continue to preempt possible 
Sltes for new banks. On that basis alone, the application should be 
turned down. The smaller banks in the suburban area were growing, 
which was all to the good, and the market share of the principal insti-
tution operating in the area had been diminishing, which also was good, 
because it had such a large proportion of the banking business. If 

190 
5/27/68 
-5-
there was a section that could support another bank, he felt that such 
an application might be approved. But he believed it was wrong to 
Permit the applicant to use up the potential sites simply because it 
could transfer accounts to the new bank. 
Chairman Martin stated that he would approve for the reasons 
given by the staff. Accordingly, the application was approved, Governor 
Robertson dissenting, with the understanding that an order and state-
ment would be prepared for the Board's consideration along with a dis-
senting statement. 
Branch applications. 
In connection with the Board's considera-
tion on November 9, 1967, of an application by a large holding company 
subsidiary bank to establish an additional branch, Governor Maisel had 
stated that his vote to approve the application was given in the absence 
any Board policy on the extent to which banking concentration should 
ke taken into account in considering branch applications. 
It had been 
Su8gested that the staff prepare a study on whether the standards 
aPPlied in merger and holding company cases with regard to banking con-
Centration should be applied also in the case of branch applications. 
^Uch a study, prepared by the Division of Examinations under date of 
^Pril 22, 1968, had now been distributed. 
(A copy has been placed in 
t h e Board's files.) 
The memorandum described the factors taken into account by the 
Reserve Banks and the Board's staff in considering branch applications. 

1908 
5/27/68 
-6-
The view was expressed that a bank holding a high percentage of 
deposits in a particular area should not be prohibited from establish-
ing de novo offices in that area solely on the basis that the bank 
held a certain percentage of area deposits. It was recommended that 
each case be studied on its merits, with consideration given in each 
instance to various anticompetitive effects incident to concentration. 
Governor Mitchell stated that he had found the memorandum use-
ful and agreed generally with the findings. As he read the memorandum, 
however, it did not say that overbanking was a reason to reject a branch 
aPplication. 
Mr. Egertson replied that when the staff reviewed the conve-
nience and needs factor it had to consider whether the area appeared 
to be overbanked. If it so concluded, it might recommend denial on 
that basis. 
Governor Mitchell then referred to a situation where one of 
two banks in a downtown area was granted a branch in an outlying dis-
trict and the other bank also wanted to establish a branch on the 
8round that otherwise it would suffer competitively. 
Mr. Egertson replied that if it appeared there was enough 
business for both banks or if the second bank had a substantial number 
customers in the area, the staff probably would recommend that both 
aPplications be approved. However, if there appeared to be room for 
only one branch, the question was more difficult. On some occasions, 

1909 
5/27/68 
-7-
he recalled, a branch application by a large bank had been deferred 
until such time as an office of a smaller bank had had an opportunity 
to become well established. 
Governor Maisel referred to the reasons listed in the memorandum 
why a bank might want to establish a new branch and noted that the list 
did not include one reason some people might consider highly important. 
The memorandum seemed to assume that banks only wanted to expand for 
the good of their customers, but that was not so. If a bank enjoyed a 
monopolistic position, it was worth a lot for the bank to maintain it. 
The memorandum did not seem to recognize sufficiently the concept that 
a bank might want to expand for aggressive reasons or to protect its 
Position. He hoped that the staff, in analyzing applications, would 
give careful thought to the question of the real reason why the bank 
wanted to expand. 
Governor Sherrill indicated that he agreed with the conclusions 
S et forth in the staff memorandum. However, since the whole area was 
c°ntinually raising new questions, he suggested that the staff continue 
to foil ow developments closely. 
Chairman Martin reviewed the recommendations in the memorandum 
arid observed that their acceptance would appear to amount to preserving 
status quo in the consideration of branch applications. 
Governor Robertson indicated that he agreed with the memorandum 
e*cept insofar as the view was expressed that a bank should not be 

1910 
5/27/68 
-8-
prohibited from establishing de novo offices solely on the basis that 
it held a high percentage of area deposits. He felt that careful con-
sideration should be given to the extent to which the factor of concen-
tration, by itself, created an anticompetitive situation. 
Retirement System. Governor Maisel noted that two separate 
matters were pending relating to the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks. The first was the report of a System ad hoc committee 
relative to the report that had been rendered earlier this year by 
Arthur Stedry Hansen, consulting actuaries. The second was a recom-
mendation to raise the Retirement System's current rate of regular 
interest, (usually called the "assumed interest rate"), which was 
Presently 3.5 per cent. The chief effects of an increase in the 
assumed interest rate, assuming no other change in benefits or experi-
ence, had been outlined in a paper from the Retirement System office 
dated May 22, 1968. 
(A copy of the memorandum has been placed in the 
Board's files.) 
• t: 
After discussing the interest rate proposal, Governor Maisel 
recommended against approving it at this time. Since a major overhaul 
the Retirement System was under study, it seemed to him that it 
w°uid be inadvisable to take action in two stages. If the proposal 
t"r» • 
increase the assumed interest rate were put into effect, the con-
tribution rate of the Reserve Banks would be cut rather sharply. Then, 
j -p there was a major overhaul of the Retirement System later, the rate 

1911 
5/27/68 
-9-
would have to be readjusted. 
In his opinion it would be cleaner to 
consider both aspects at one time. He made this recommendation recog-
nizing that the Retirement System Trustees did not want to take the 
responsibility for turning down the proposal and would probably pass 
a favorable recommendation along to the Board. 
Governor Mitchell inquired why the assumed interest rate could 
not be flexible depending on actual earnings, and Governor Maisel out-
lined reasons that might be cited against making, at this time at 
least, such a significant change from past procedure. 
Governor Sherrill said that he saw no problem in deferring a 
decision. 
It seemed sensible to him to consider the whole package 
together. 
However, he thought he would be in favor of tying the assumed 
interest rate more directly to the market. 
The Board members then indicated that they accepted Governor 
Maisel's recommendation. 
• ' ""if-- , 
Annex building. Mr. Shepardson referred to the agreement with 
e Interior Department with regard to the construction of the so-called 
n° r th garage and with respect to the development of the park on the sur-
fa 
C e above the garage. As the Board would recall, the National Park 
^ervice had raised a question about Board participation in the cost of 
j 
Velopment of the park site, and the Board had agreed that it would 
aPpropriate t Q 
u p t o h ^ f Df the C Ost, then estimated at about 
(S / 
u>000. 
Negotiations had gone forward with the Interior Department 

JLK.I JL 
5/27/68 
-10-
and the Park Service on that basis, and final approval of the plan by 
the appropriate authorities early in June was anticipated. The esti-
mated total cost was now $470,000, of which the Board would pay half. 
He recommended that the Board authorize the signing of an agreement 
Wlth the Interior Department covering the construction and use of the 
north garage and the development of the park site. 
Governor Sherrill expressed his concurrence with the recommen-
dation, and the signing of such an agreement was authorized. 
Mr. Shepardson then stated that the Board's architects had 
Proposed that the annex building project be handled under three con-
tracts. if the project was to proceed on schedule, the first phase of 
the marble contract should be put out for bids shortly because consid-
erable lead time was required. As to the contract for excavation and 
foundation work, hopefully it would be possible to start excavation 
within about 30 days after the call for bids on that contract, and the 
first of August was suggested. The general construction contract would 
Put out for bids around the first of next year, and it was hoped that 
a contract could be let by the first of March. The whole matter, of 
c°urse, would have to be considered by the Board in relation to the 
impact on current and prospective budget expenditures. 
In the budget 
c 
this year a figure of about $600,000 was included for the annex 
building project. The items that had been completed or authorized for 
CoinPletion this year would require about $537,000 according to present 

5/27/68 
-11-
estimates. Under a schedule such as now proposed, added expenditures 
this year would be roughly $725,000. 
Among the arguments in favor of proceeding promptly, Mr. 
Shepardson said, were rising construction costs, interim rental costs, 
and continued operating inefficiencies due to dispersal of personnel 
between two buildings. He recommended that the Board authorize a call 
for bids on the marble contract at this time, with the understanding 
that it would expect to move ahead and call for other bids according 
t o the schedule he had outlined. 
Governor Sherrill seconded Mr. Shepardson's recommendation. 
He noted the additional expenses that would be involved in further 
delays and expressed the view that they were sufficient to warrant pro-
ceeding even though a deferral would ease the Board's budget problem 
the current year. 
Governor Maisel recommended that consideration of the matter 
be deferred until December. 
In addition to his view that the possi-
bility of rising costs was not a good argument on economic grounds, he 
felt the Board must consider the fact that Government departments and 
a§encies generally were being requested to cut their budgets for the 
next fiscal year to the extent of some $6 billion. 
It would be inad-
visable for the Board not to endeavor to restrict its own budget in 
those circumstances, and the best prospect was to defer capital expen-
<Ut ures. 

191 
5/27/68 
-12-
Governor Mitchell commented that if the System wanted to have 
a policy of deferring capital programs, he would be disposed to fix a 
moratorium of six months. But he did not know that the System had such 
a policy at the present time. If the Board fixed such a policy for 
itself, that policy should be applicable Systemwide. He agreed with 
Governor Maisel about the public relations aspect. However, he was 
not sure how much the project would be affected in terms of timing, 
and he wondered whether it might not be reasonable to go ahead with 
excavation this fall while deferring further commitments. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that this was a decision in 
which it would be desirable for all Board members to participate. That 
would probably mean deferring a decision until the 18th of June. 
Governor Robertson agreed and expressed the view that the 
matter could well be deferred until mid-June. He added that the staff 
^ad begun to review possibilities for reducing expenditures under the 
Board's budget for the remainder of the current calendar year, and this 
was one of the items to which consideration would have to be given. The 
Practical effects of a postponement should be explored further, and he 
Would consider it unwise to delay longer than six months. On the other 
^and, he felt it would be desirable to obtain the benefit of what budget 
Cutbacks were feasible for the immediate future. He therefore suggested 
the problems involved in a postponement until December be explored 
further prior to June 18. 

1915 
5/27/68 
-13-
Governor Robertson added that he had been contemplating that 
once the Board had taken action on a reappraisal of its own budget, 
the Reserve Banks should be urged to do the same thing. 
Chairman Martin then requested Mr. Shepardson to explore all 
aspects of the annex building problem in preparation for the June 18 
meeting. 
Mr. Shepardson agreed and referred next to the question of 
employment of a construction supervisor. If the annex building project 
was going to be deferred, the actual employment of such a person should 
also be deferred. However, a candidate was being recommended for 
employment as of the first of July. The actual date could be deferred, 
but he would recommend that the person in question be given some indi-
cation so that he could make his plans accordingly. 
«, • ' -
Chairman Martin suggested that this matter also be considered 
June 18. 
Mr. Shepardson then referred to the matter of a contract for 
sPecifying the interior furnishings of the annex building. That had 
n°t been included in the present contract with the architect. However, 
there would be an advantage in having the same firm develop the interior 
furnishings. The basic contract could be supplemented either on a per 
lem ba sis or on a percentage basis according to the cost of materials 
finally purchased. 
It was understood that this matter also would be discussed 
all of the Board members were present. 

1916 
5/27/68 
-14-
Mr. Shepardson went on to refer to the question of publicity, 
noting that the architects were receiving inquiries from trade publica-
tions and others. Up until this point he had requested them not to 
Publicize their work, on the assumption that it would be better to 
wait until a construction contract was let. 
It was understood that a decision on that point also would be 
deferred. 
Mr. Shepardson then stated that question had been raised about 
the inclusion in the annex building of a private elevator. It appeared 
that the additional cost would amount to about $40,000. 
Ho.tr J 
Governor Sherrill recommended that the inclusion of this item 
he approved to facilitate the planning of the building. 
Governor Mitchell expressed reservations about the need for a 
Private elevator, and Chairman Martin said he understood that the pro-
posal was actually to include an additional elevator. On that basis, 
ne f ei t 
that a need was indicated. Mr. Shepardson agreed, stating 
that consideration must be given to providing convenient access to the 
te*"race floor when guests were being entertained. The additional ele-
h th-
Vator would be the same size as the others, would stop at all floors, 
and could be used as circumstances required at any particular time. 
- ' 
. 
' 
: 
* 
On that understanding the inclusion of the additional elevator 
W a s a££roved. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1917 
5/27/68 
-15-
Secretary s Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board a 
modified organizational structure of the 
Division of Data Processing as described 
in a memorandum from that Division dated 
May 27, 1968, a copy of which is attached 
as Item No. 3. This action did not extend 
to the question of the number of people or 
positions. 
Governor Robertson also approved today on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks (copy 
attached as Item No. 4) transmitting forms to be used by State member 
banks and their affiliates in submitting reports of condition as of 
the next call date. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
travel authorizations 
John E. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of International 
finance, to attend a meeting of Working Party 2 of the OECD to be held 
in Paris on June 6-7, 1968, with per diem to be paid in accordance with 
the Standardized Government Travel Regulations. 
Lyle E. Gramley, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, to 
ecture at the Center for Latin American Monetary Studies in Mexico 
xty in August 1968, in place of Mr. Sammons. 
Trania Leahey as Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,123, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Charles Luckett as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
lth basic annual salary at the rate of $10,301, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
•^Siarv increase 
f 
Richard D. Erb, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
roin $12,555 to $13,753 per annum, effective June 2, 1968. 

VJ18 
5/27/68 
-16-
Transfers 
Joanne Frances Ellis, Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, 
to a clerk-typist position in the Securities Credit Regulation 
Unit of the Task Force-Special Regulations, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $4,615, effective June 2, 1968. 
Leroy Jefferys, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
to a messenger position in the Board Members' area, with an increase 
in basic annual salary from $3,776 to $4,108, effective June 2, 1968. 
•; 
< 
On May 27, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
.the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Item No 
Letter to Oklahoma State Bank, Buffalo, 
Oklahoma, waiving the requirement of six 
Months' notice of withdrawal from member-
ship i n the Federal Reserve System. 
^%-the Fedpral Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
iifornia, granting an extension of time 
w i thin which to establish a branch in Liver-
more . 
Secretary 

1919 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Item No. 1 
5/27/68 
the Matter of the Application of 
JHE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Denver, Colorado, 
approval of action to become a bank 
°laing company through the acquisition of 
v°t4ng shares of The First National Bank 
Denver, Denver; The First National Bank 
J Bear Valley, Denver; The First National 
of North Glenn, North Glenn; and The 
irst National Bank of Southglenn, Arapahoe 
county, a l l i n Colorado. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
8^2(a)(l)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
I
(12 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The First National Bancorporation, 
^ C 
rv 
•» Denver, Colorado, for the Board's prior approval of action where-
^pplicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 
or 
De 
voting 
shares of the following four banks in Colorado: 67 per cent 
m° r e 
the voting shares of The First National Bank of Denver, 
» and 51 p e r cent or more of the voting shares of The First 
Gl 
Co 
° n al Bank of Bear Valley, Denver, The First National Bank of North 
• North Glenn, and The First National Bank of Southglenn, Arapahoe 
ttnty. 

As required by section 2(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice to the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application 
and requested his views and recommendation. He recommended approval of 
the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 24, 1968 (33 Federal Register 866), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
tlle thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of the Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
nsas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 27th day of Hay, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Mitchell. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kcnyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1 8 2 1 
Item No. 2 
5/27/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC., 
DENVER, COLORADO, TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
y t action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
^ Per cent or more of the voting shares of The First National Bank 
° f Denver, Denver ("First National Bank"), and 51 per cent or more of 
t h e v°ting shares of The First National Bank of Bear Valley, Denver 
( Bear Valley Bank"), The First National Bank of North Glenn, North 
Glenn ("North Glenn Bank"), and The First National Bank of Southglenn, 
A n 
aPahoe County ("Southglenn Bank"), all in the State of Colorado. 
First National Bank, with deposits of $437.3 million as of 
Juno in 
1967, 
is the largest bank in Colorado and is centrally located 
the City of Denver. Bear Valley Bank ($4.5 million deposits), North 
Gl 
Bank ($4.7 million deposits), and Southglenn Bank ($2.3 million 
P o s lts) are suburban banks located in shopping centers 9 to 12 miles 
First National Bank. In view of a legal prohibition against branch 
^ll banking data are as of this date, unless otherwise noted. 

1322 
-2-
banking in Colorado, each of the proposed subsidiaries has only one 
office. The three suburban banks were organized by officers and stock-
holders of First National Bank, and were opened for business between 
late 1963 and late 1964. A high degree of common ownership continues 
t o exist among the four banks - a group of 481 stockholders owns approx-
imately 74 per cent of the shares of First National Bank, 62 per cent of 
B e ar Valley Bank, 80 per cent of North Glenn Bank, and 69 per cent of 
Southglenn Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As re-
tired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
^as given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller 
of 
the Currency. The Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
^at the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
0ri0Poly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
c1uisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
Lantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
0 r 
*7hich in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
°arc* finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to 
served. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 

-3- 
1923 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 215 insured 
commercial banks in the State of Colorado hold aggregate deposits of 
billion. The 10 largest banking organizations operating in the 
State (4 bank holding companies and 6 independent banks) have aggregate 
deposits of $1.8 billion, or 57.2 per cent of the total. Applicant, as 
the State's largest banking organization, uould control 14.5 per cent 
State deposits, .3 per cent more than is presently held by First 
National Bank. 
2/ 
First National Bank's primary service area 
is coextensive 
u l th the Denver Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("Denver SUSA"), 
v?hich is comprised of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Denver, and Jefferson 
^unties. Each of the other three proposed subsidiaries is also located 
^thin, but serves a much smaller portion of, the Denver SMSA. The six 
§est banking organizations in the Denver SI1SA, uhich include the four 
holding companies presently operating in the State, control 73 per 
the deposits held by commercial banks in the area. Applicant 
fcould 
control 22.1 per cent of such deposits, 1.6 per cent more than 
the share held by the area's second largest banking organization, Denver 
U.s 
• bancorporation (a registered bank holding company), and .6 per cent 
tnd 
Lonal Bank are derived. 
0£ . — area from uhich Applicant estimates that 85 per cent of the deposits 
^ati^diyiduals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC deposits") of First 

1 Q'ZC 
-4-
more than the share held by First National Bank. Concentration among 
the area's six largest banking organizations would also be increased 
by .6 per cent. 
Despite the fact that the three proposed suburban subsidiaries 
are located within the area served by First National Bank, the relation-
ship existing between each of them and First National Bank, dating from 
their organization, indicates that no real competition would be eliminated 
ky consummation of Applicant's proposal. In addition to the high degree 
of 
common ownership of the four banks, officers of First National Bank 
institute a majority or near majority of the directors of the other 
•.l 
e e banks. Management and employees of the suburban banks also are 
Provided by First National Bank, and a substantial portion of each of the 
maller banks' loan portfolios consists of participations purchased from 
s t National Bank. Inasmuch as Applicant's proposal would effect only 
a L 
a nge in the form of a pre-existing affiliation, the extent and nature 
of °mpetition between the proposed subsidiary banks and other area banks 
VOUjj 
not be 
significantly altered. Moreover, since the evidence before 
Board indicates that the possibility of discontinuance of the afore-
Cribed relationships between and among the proposed subsidiaries is 
» regardless of Board action on the present application, potential 
Petition among them, or between any of them and other area banks, would 
not K 
e affected by consummation of the proposal. 
Summarizing the competitive effects of Applicant's proposal, 
8ummation of the transaction x^ould result in a slight increase in the 

-5-
w* 
' 
relatively high degree of concentration presently existing in the Denver 
1 9 2 5 
SMSA. i n view of the existing relationships among the four proposed 
subsidiaries, however, such increase in concentration does not portend 
relevant 
atly real effect on the number of banking alternatives in any 
a 
- • ' 
a r ea, or on the nature or vigor of competition among the four subsidiaries 
0 r with other banking organizations. 
• 
- 
• 
On the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation 
o f the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, nor be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the 
b 
Usiness of banking in any relevant area. Further, there appears to be 
reasonable probability that effectuation of the proposal would sub-
stantialiy lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or operate in 
of trade. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - Appli-
C8n t-
c» a newly formed corporation, has no financial or operating history. 
* 
- 
, 
-i * 
• 
It 
s financial condition, management and prospects are dependent on those 
h • 
*
'
r
,
> 
' 
1 
'
1 
* 
t h e proposed subsidiary banks, principally First National Bank. 
Each of the proposed subsidiaries is in satisfactory financial 
co 
ltion and has competent and experienced management. Prospects of 
s t National Bank, Bear Valley Bank, and North Glenn Bank are considered 
°rable regardless of whether the instant proposal is consummated. 
South-
Bank's office, according to Applicant, is inadequate, poorly located, 
an<j 
n o t readily accessible to the public. Applicant proposes to build 
f 
acilities for Southglenn Bank, which does not now have the resources 

1 9 2 G 
-6-
necessary to acquire them, and to lease such facilities to the bank on 
reasonable terms. The direct benefits to Southglenn Bank of new and 
expanded facilities indicate that its prospects would be somewhat more 
favorable if Applicant's proposal is consummated. 
Considerations under this factor, as they pertain to Applicant, 
First National Bank, Bear Valley Bank, and North Glenn Bank are regarded 
a s consistent with approval of the application. As they relate to South-
2lenn Bank, such considerations provide some weight in favor of approval. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The banking 
®eds of the individuals and businesses located in the areas served by the 
Proposed subsidiaries appear to be adequately served at present. It is un-
likely that consummation of Applicant's proposal will lead to any significant 
ac*diti0ris to, or improvements upon, services which the four banks, as pre-
sently affiliated, are able to provide. As earlier indicated, however, in 
the event of approval of this application Applicant proposes to provide the 
Pessary funds to construct badly needed new banking facilities for South-
olo n Bank, which would add to the convenience of that bank's customers. 
Considerations bearing on this factor lend some additional weight 
Itl a v° r of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts con-
tai 
nec* in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in section 
3(c) 
o f the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
l'°uld h 
D° in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
May 
y 27> I960. 

1927 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ce Correspondence 
Item No. 
5/27/68 
Data 
May 27, 1968. 
of Governors 
Via Governori 
lUL_Byrn 
. ^ M -icd 
Subject; 
Request for Authorization 
of Organizational Re-alignment of 
Data Processing Division. 
Authorization is requested to modify the organizational structure 
the Division of Data Processing as depicted in the attached chart. 
The proposed structure is the result of operational experience 
evaluations made during the application of the Division's Short-term 
^rational p l a n over the past five months. The emphasis of the re-alignment 
fo ° n 3 n or8an*-zational structure which will provide more direct management 
C U s and supervisory control of all critical functions of the Division. 
a 
The new structure provides for three principal groups of line man-
g^m<;nt: Automatic Data Processing (ADP) Applications, ADP Operations, and 
^•^igtical Operations. Under these major segments, a total of nine sections 
p 6 *-nvolved. Of the four new sections, only one — the Data Management and 
/auction Section—represents new functions not previously included in 
§anizational responsibilities. 
je 
Three sections are included under ADP Applications: Special Pro-
Dev ® Section, Mathematical/Statistical Services Section, and Project 
. opment Section. 
These three sections represent a restructuring of the 
oecuon. 
mese cnree sec 
Analysis and Programming Section. 
ADP Operations would consist of four sections: Equipment Opera-
tion, System Su] 
and Scheduling and Control Section. The functions associated with 
Sec?? Section, System Support Section, Data Management and Production 
j011' and Scheduling and Control Section. The functions associated wicn 
eVer U 
n8 and control were formerly included with hardware operations; how-
Var ' these functions are considered to be of sufficient importance to 
rant their independent organizational assignment and supervisory emphasis, 
Statistical Operations would remain essentially unchanged and. con-
the Economic Graphics and Financial Statistics Sections. 
itia^ 
is intended that the proposed organization be implemented and 
ti0ng
ained for the remainder of the calendar year with the number of posi-
aite
S Presently authorized and planned in the 1968 budget. Those positions 
Prai y noted to the Office of the Controller in the recent budget reap-
e d ! 1 Woul-d, of course, still be deferred. Original 1968 budget planning 
Pti_ 
19 new positions in addition to the 126 positions authorized 
or 
Place
 t o the first of the year. Of the 19 positions requested, 12 were 
tegul
 
i n the professional recruitment category and were not included in the 
a r budget. Out of the planned total of 145 positions, it is currently 

o f Governors 
-2- 
May 27, 1968. 
t h a t ^ 
f i l ling of 6 positions can be deferred until next year 
the reallocation of the remaining 139 positions will be adequate 
maintenance of anticipated 1968 data processing operations under the 
proposed organization. 
W o u l
 
It: i s understood that the reallocation of positions and personnel 
Cont 
carried out with the appropriate concurrence of the Office of the 
roller and the Division of Personnel Administration. 
V 
: ' s 

1329 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20531 
Item No. 4 
5/27/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
June 17, 1968. 
, 
The indicated number of copies of the following forms are 
eit*g forwarded to your bank under separate cover fo* use of State 
ember banks and their affiliates in submitting reports as of the 
ne*t call date: 
Number of 
-Copies 
.SAP iQg 
Form FR 105 (Call No. 188), Report of Condition of 
State member banks (including Schedule B). 
Form FR 105a (Revised June 1968), Instructions for 
the preparation of Report of Condition by State 
member banks of the Federal Reserve System. 
Form FR 105e (Revised June 1967), Publisher's copy 
of report of condition of State member banks. 
Form FR 105e-l (Revised June 1967), Publisher's 
copy of report of condition of State member 
banks. 
Form FR 220 (Revised September 1966), Report of 
Affiliate or Holding Company Affiliate. 
Form FR 220a (Revised September 1966), Publisher's 
copy of Report of Affiliate or Holding Company 
Affiliate. 
The condition report form for the June call is identical 
used for the December 1967 call, and the same tabulating 
ayout and processing instructions are to be used. 

Since FR 105a, Instructions for the preparation of Reports 
°f Condition by State member banks of the Federal Reserve System, was 
devised in 1961, additions, deletion* and changes in arrangement of 
items have been made in the form. However, the instruction material 
itself remains generally relevant. As an aid to completing the remain 
i n8 call reports of 1968, and anticipating a more fundamental revision 
in the call report form and instructions for 1969 calls, an interim 
devised instruction pamphlet has been prepared. Changes from the 
version consist almost entirely of a rearrangement of material 
be consistent with the arrangement and item content of the call 
-orm currently in use. Copies will be mailed for distribution to 
tate member banks as soon as they are available. 
Very truly yours, 
•; 
• 
(&Q(J 
g&^&C 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
,v\u 
Assistant Secretary. 
^closures. 
• . '>' lu ; , • 
T 0 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 

p 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY 
Y 
Item No. 
May 27, 1968 
5/27/68 
Board of Directors 
Oklahoma State Bank 
Buffalo, Oklahoma 
Gentlemen: 
This has reference to your letter dated May 20, 1968, 
signed by Mr. Walter Litz, Chairman, together with accompany-
ing resolution dated May 7, 1968, signifying your intention to 
withdraw from membership in the Federal Reserve System and 
requesting waiver of the six months1 notice of such withdrawal. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors acting under delegated 
authority, this Bank hereby waives the requirements of six month 
notice of withdrawal under the provision of Section 208.10(c) of 
the Board's Regulation H. Your institution may accomplish termi 
nation of its membership at any time within six months from the 
ate that notice of intention to withdraw from membership was 
given. Upon surrender of the Federal Reserve stock issued to 
your institution, such stock will be cancelled and an appropri-
e refund will be made thereon. 
t
 
I t is requested that the Certificate of Membership be re-
urned to this Bank when you have received permission to operate 
s an insured nonmember bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(s) M. J. Swords 
M. J. Swords 
Vice President 
Mr. Lloyd Thomas, Supervising Examiner 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
Mr. H. W. Pritz, Vice President 
Oklahoma City Branch, Federal Reserve Bank 

1932 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N F R A N C I S C O 
SAN FRANCISCO. CALIFORNIA 
04190 
Item No. 6 
5/27/68 
Kay 27, 1968 
Mr. Norman Barker, Jr., 
President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
tos Angeles, California 90054. 
Dear Mr. Barker: 
On behalf of the Board o^Coverno^t of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting uilder delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved an extension to December 19, 1968 
of the time within which United (Californiatank may 
establish a branch in the downtow^ busJWess district of 
tivermore, Alameda^CountyXCalifoi 
This extension is granted 
connection with 
the request contained in your(letter dated May 22, 1968.. 
Very truly yours, 
J.I r, 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
