MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 2, 19 72 

1142 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 2, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of First National Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to The Livestock National Bank of Kansas 
City, also of Kansas City, Missouri. The Board also authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 1. 

1143 
5/2/72 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mercantile 
Bancorporation Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of The Trenton 
National Bank, Trenton, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Loans for small businesses. 
In a memorandum of April 28, 1972, 
the Division of Research and Statistics discussed the provisions of 
H. R. 7909, a bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to require member 
banks to utilize a certain percentage of funds for loans to small businesses. 
The House Committee on Banking and Currency had requested the Board's 
views on the bill. Attached was a draft letter that would take a generally 
negative view. 
Discussion having indicated a preference for a somewhat different 
approach and emphasis, it was understood that the draft letter would be 
revised to reflect the views expressed. 
Subject to clearance of such 
revisions with Chairman Burns, the sending of the letter was approved 
unanimously. 
A copy of the letter in the form in which it was subsequently 
transmitted is attached as Item No. 3. 
Arkansas Bank and Trust Company. The Board unanimously approved 
the application of Arkansas Bank and Trust Company, Hot Springs, Arkansas, 
for permission to issue capital notes. A copy of the letter sent to the 
applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 

1144 
5/2/72 
- 3" 
Governor Robertson stated that although he would join the 
majority in this action, he considered the application an example of a 
growing tendency for banks that had adequate capital to issue capital 
notes in order to obtain funds for making loans without having to carry 
reserves. He urged that the staff study now in progress on capital 
notes be expedited; other members of the Board expressed similar views. 
Gentran Bancshares. 
In a memorandum of April 7, 1972, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the appli-
cation of Centran Bancshares Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of Mid-Ohio Banc-Shares, Inc., Mansfield, Ohio, which owned the 
following banks located in Ohio: The Richland Trust Company, Mansfield; 
The Farmers and Savings Bank, Loudonville; and The Sutton State Bank, 
Attica. The Banking Markets Section also recommended approval. 
Discussion indicated that the views of members of the Board 
present were about evenly divided, and the matter was therefore deferred 
for further consideration. 
Fidelity American Bankshares. 
In a memorandum of April 14, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Fidelity American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, 
to acquire shares of Tidewater Bank and Trust Company, Williamsburg, 
Virginia, a proposed new bank. 
Documentation included a memorandum of April 13 in which Mr. Leavitt 
pointed out that the only questionable aspect of the case was an unusual 
plan under which directors would be paid bonuses based on the bank's growth 

1145 
5/2/72 
-4-
in average deposits. 
In response to inquiries during discussion at 
today's meeting, Mr. Leavitt indicated that he did not consider the proposed 
bonuses an adequate basis for denial of the application. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the bonus feature could 
be accepted only because the holding company would own all of the bank's 
stock and therefore no inequity for minority shareholders was presented. 
There was general agreement that that point should be made clear in the 
Board's order. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of an 
order in the form attached as Item No. 5 was authorized. 
Community welfare activities. 
In a memorandum of April 21, 1972, 
the Legal Division proposed a new interpretation of community welfare 
activities of bank holding companies that are permissible under section 
4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. The current interpretation 
held that the pertinent provision of Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, 
did not authorize investments in community development projects that were 
entered into to a substantial extent for profit. The staff recommended 
that that standard be deleted because it was impractical to administer, 
since profit projections in projects of this type were highly conjectural. 
The draft interpretation attached to the memorandum would specify some 
types of projects that were permissible for investment, mention others 
of a borderline character for which the burden of proof would be on the 
applicant to demonstrate that a project was designed primarily to promote 
community welfare, and state that "Other investments in corporations or 

6 
5/2/72 
-2-
projects organized to build or rehabilitate housing, commercial, office, 
or industrial facilities shall be presumed not to be designed primarily 
to promote community welfare, unless there is substantial evidence to 
the contrary, even though to some extent the investment may benefit the 
community." 
At today's meeting Governor Brimmer commented that current 
thinking had progressed beyond the point where, as suggested by the 
proposed interpretation, development of lower or middle income housing 
was the principal test for associating a project with improvement of 
community welfare. For example, provision of jobs could be an important 
consideration, even if those jobs were provided at other than slum 
locations. He considered the proposed interpretation to have a somewhat 
obstructive approach: except with respect to certain housing projects 
that were unquestionably for community development, applicants would be 
required to prove that their projects qualified, and they might easily 
be discouraged from participating. He observed that the present provision 
in Regulation Y had been adopted as a step toward encouraging participation 
by bank holding company subsidiaries in community development, with the 
expectation that guidelines subsequently would be developed. He thought 
that it was time to proceed toward guidelines, possibly with the help of 
outside consultants. 
Discussion included a suggestion that the emphasis upon encour-
agement of participation in community development projects might be stated 
in a preamble to the interpretation. Other comments indicated some support 

±14? 
5/2/72 
-6-
for placing the burden of proof on the applicant. Governor Robertson 
expressed a preference for a case-by-case approach to provide precedents 
to indicate to the public how particular elements of a project might be 
weighed. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the staff 
would revise the proposed interpretation in the light of views expressed, 
for the Board's further consideration. 
R.I.H.T. Corporation. 
In memoranda of April 7 and 13, 197 2, the 
Banking Markets Section and the Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
respectively, recommended denial of the application of R.I.H.T. Corporation, 
Providence, Rhode Island, to engage de novo in certain community rehabil-
itation and development activities through its wholly-owned subsidiary, 
Washington Row Company, also of Providence. 
The application was denied by unanimous vote, and issuance of an 
order in the form attached as Item No. 6 was authorized. 
Voting trusts and buy-sell agreements. 
In a memorandum of April 20, 
1972, the Legal Division stated that several inquiries had been received 
as to whether certain voting trust and buy-sell agreements (ordinarily 
involving the shares of a single bank) constituted a "company" as defined 
under section 2(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act and therefore were 
required to register as bank holding companies. The Division believed 
that the relationships at which the Act was aimed were not present in the 

8 
5/2/72 
-2-
usual voting trust or buy-sell agreement, since those arrangements 
usually did not concern either control of multiple banks or bank holding 
company involvement in nonbanking activities. The Division recommended 
that, upon satisfaction of conditions discussed in the memorandum, the 
arrangements generally not be considered to fall within the definition of 
"company." A draft letter to the Federal Reserve Banks was attached. 
The letter was approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached as 
Item No. 7 . 
The meeting then adjourned. 
t t.Si: 

1149 
Item No. 1 
5/2/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL CHARTER CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to 
The Livestock National Bank, Kansas City, Missouri ("Bank"). The 
bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as 
a means of acquiring all of the shares of Bank. 
Accordingly, the 
Proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organization is 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of shares of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization in Missouri, 
controls seven banks with aggregate deposits of $498.4 million, repre-
senting approximately 4.3 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
in the State.-7 Upon acquisition of Bank ($19.7 million in deposits) 
l7 unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1971, 
adjusted to reflect holding company applications approved by the Board 
through April 7, 1972. 

1150 
-2-
Applicant will increase its share of Statewide deposits by 0.2 per cent 
and will become the fourth largest banking organization in the State. 
Applicant, through three of its subsidiary banks, controls 
approximately 11 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in 
the Kansas City Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area and is the 
second largest banking organization in that area. Applicant's ranking 
in the SMSA will remain unchanged as a result of this proposal, and 
Applicant's share of deposits will increase by less than 0.6 per cent. 
Bank, which specializes in livestock and farm lending, was 
organized in 1955 by shareholders of Applicant's lead bank, the First 
National Bank of Kansas City, Missouri ("First National"). Because 
Pf the specialized services offered by Bank, Bank's lengthy affiliation 
with First National and the fact that disaffiliation between the two 
institutions is unlikely, no existing nor significant potential competition 
will be foreclosed upon consummation of the proposed transaction. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Applicant and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval.. 
Applicant proposes to diversify Bank's operations thereby providing 
another alternative for full banking services in the community. Considera-
tions relating to convenience and needs of the community are consistent 
with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
would be in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

1151 
-2-
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective May 2, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
I7~ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Maisel. 

1152 
Item No. 2 
5/2/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MERCANTILE BANCORPORATION INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mercantile Bancorporation Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Trenton National Bank, Trenton, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, Missouri's largest banking organization and its 
largest bank holding company,controls seven subsidiary banks with 
aggregate deposits of $1.2 billion, representing approximately 
1/ 
per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would not have a significant 
effect on the concentration of commercial bank deposits in Missouri, 
increasing Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits by less 
than ,2 of a percentage point. 
Bank ($18.5 million deposits) is the larger of two banks 
in Trenton and the largest of five banks in the Trenton banking 
market (approximated by Grundy County), and holds 45.5 per cent of 
I/~~A11 banking data are as of June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding 
company acquisitions and formations approved by the Board through 
March 31, 1972. 

-2-
1153 
market deposits. Even though Bank is the largest in the area, the 
other area banks appear to be viable and aggressive competitors, and 
the record indicates that the Bank does not occupy a dominant position, 
as evidenced by a slight decline in its percentage of market deposits 
held while other area banks increased their share of such deposits. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank is over 85 miles away, and 
neither it nor any of Applicant's other subsidiaries competes with 
Bank to any meaningful extent. The development of any competition 
between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries is considered un-
likely because of the distances separating the banks and the restric-
tive 
Missouri branching laws. It does not appear, therefore, that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would eliminate any existing 
competition, nor foreclose the development of significant potential 
competition, or that there would be adverse effects on any bank in 
the 
area involved. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant, its present subsidiaries, and Bank are all regarded as 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. It 
appears that the major banking needs of Bank's service area are 
Presently being met by the existing banking institutions; however, 
Applicant proposes to expand Bank's services, including its credit 
and trust operations, in order to make Bank more responsive to the 
needs of the community. Thus, considerations relating to the 

14 
-2-
convenience and needs are consistent with approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the transaction would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 2, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Maisel. 

F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
O T T H E 
5/2/72 
Item No. 3 
May 3, 
1972 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
Chairman 
• - 
' • 
' ' 
' 
i . 
. . 
: 
..» j ; 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
i 
j 
Dear M r . 
Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for the Board's views 
on H. R. 7909, a bill to amend the Federal R e s e r v e Act to requin 
m e m b e r banks to utilize a certain percentage of their funds for 
loans to small businesses. 
Congress quite properly has sought to assure availability of 
financing f o r small business f i r m s . 
However, the Board does 
not believe this bill would further that goal and therefore 
r e c o m m e n d s against its passage. 
The heart of the bill is a minimum quota on loans by m e m b e r 
banks to small business and an interest rate ceiling of no m o r e 
than one per cent above what the bank charges its most credit-
worthy b o r r o w e r s for similar loans. 
Most m e m b e r banks are 
relatively small and have many small-business customers. 
For 
these banks, the imposition of a non-economic rate ceiling could 
mean the denial of credit to small business ventures that require 
an interest rate risk premium in e x c e s s of one per cent. 
The relationship between a bank and its business customers is 
often c o m p l e x ; the rate of interest on direct loans is by no means 
the only way in which the bank is compensated for the services 
which it provides to these customers. 
Therefore, a bank could 
o b s e r v e the letter though not the spirit of this legislation in a 
variety of ways; effective enforcement would be quite difficult; 
and tlic administrative, 
regulatory, and reporting burdens on both 
m e m b e r banks and the Board would be enormous. 

1156 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 2 -
There is ample justification for efforts to further improve the 
functioning of financial markets in meeting the needs of small 
business f i r m s . 
Many o b s e r v e r s have long contended that 
small businesses should be encouraged to obtain funds f r o m 
l o n g - t e r m debt and equity markets as well as f r o m nonbank 
financial institutions. 
Incentives for encouraging the develop-
ment of such financing sources for small business are embodied 
in much of the current S. B. A. enabling legislation; it is this 
route, rather than the direct control concept underlying H. R. 
7909, that the Board believes has far m o r e promise of dealing 
with the problem of small business finance. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

1157 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
Item No. 4 
5/2/72 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
May 2, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Arkansas Bank and Trust Company 
Hot Springs, Arkansas 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(1) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
tha Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $500,000 
in subordinated capital notes by Arkansas Bank and Trust Company, 
Hot Springs, Arkansas, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis. Approval is granted with the understanding that 
the sale of these capital debentures will be consummated within 
six-months from the date of this letter. It is further understood 
that any advertising with respect to the obligations will, in 
addition to being in compliance with the provisions of section 
217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of the 
obligation from a deposit, including by setting forth in bold 
face type that the obligation is subordinated to the claims of 
depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

1153 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/2/72 
FIDELITY AMERICAN BANKSHARES, INC, 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Fidelity American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the 
voting shares of Tidewater Bank and Trust Company, Williamsburg, 
Virginia ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls seven banks with aggregate deposits of 
$352.9 million, representing 4.2 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State, and is the eighth largest banking 
organization in Virginia. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 
1971, and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved through February 29, 1972.) Since Bank is a proposed new 
bank, no existing competition would be eliminated nor would concen-
tration be increased in any relevant area. 
Bank will be located in the City of Williamsburg and will 
represent the initial entry by Applicant into the Williamsburg 

1159 
-2-
banking market.—^ Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank is located 
17 miles away and competes in a different market. The Williamsburg 
market is now served by only two banks, one of which holds 80,9 per 
°ent of market deposits. Thus, Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
would have a procompetitive effect as it would provide a third banking 
alternative and likely establish a basis for increased competition 
and reduced concentration in Bank's market area. Accordingly, the 
Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
n°t adversely affect competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and 
its subsidiary banks are deemed satisfactory, and projected growth 
and earnings for the group appear favorable. Bank, as a proposed new 
bank, has no financial or operating history; however, its prospects 
under Applicant's management appear favorable. A "management 
incentive plan" negotiated by Applicant with the directors of Bank 
could have an adverse effect on the condition of Bank. Despite this 
asPect of Applicant's proposal, the acquisition is approved inasmuch as 
Applicant is to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares of Bank, and 
there will be no minority shareholders whose interests could be prejudiced 
the management incentive plan. Bank will commence operations with total 
initial capital of $750,000, which appears adequate to provide capital 
Bank as well as to permit payment under the management incentive plan. 
Banking factors as they concern Applicant's group and the proposed new bank 
a r e consistent with approval of the application. It appears that the 
Approximated by City of Williamsburg, western portion of James City 
°unty, and northeast portion of York County. 

major banking nefeds of the area are being adequately served at the 
Present time. However, Bank would provide an additional source of 
convenient banking services to the area. Considerations under con-
venience and needs aspects of the proposal are consistent with 
approval and lend some weight thereto. It is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
fche reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after that date; and 
<c> Tidewater Bank and Trust Company, Williamsburg, Virginia, shall 
e opened for business not later than six months after the effective 
date of this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may 
bo ' 
e extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective May 2, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
_ 
. 
Da Q n
V° t i n 8 f° r t h i S a c t l o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
and 
B r i m m e r a n d Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 

11* 
Item No. 6 
5/2/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
R.I.H.T. CORPORATION 
Order Denying Participation in Slater Mall 
Urban Renewal Project 
R.I.H.T. Corporation, Providence, Rhode Island, a bank 
holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1556, as amended, has applied for the Board's approval under 
section 4(c)(0) of the Act and section 225.4(b)(1) of the Board's 
Regulation Y to participate, through Washington Row Company ("WRC"), 
i t s wholly-owned subsidiary, as a limited partner in Slater Mall 
Associates ("SMA"), a Rhode Island limited partnership, in the 
devel0pment of a parcel of real estate in the urban renewal project 
known as the "Slater Mall Urban Renewal Area Project, R.I. R-ll" 
i n 
n t h e c i t y of Pawtuclcet, Rhode Island. Notice of the application, 
affording opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
v i ews, W a s duly published (37 Federal Register 310). Time for filing 
events and views has expired and none have been received. 
Making equity and debt investments in corporations or 
Projects designed primarily to promote community welfare, such as 
the 
economic rehabilitation and development of low-income areas 
i s ^a activity that the Board has determined to be closely related 
t o banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(7)). The issue raised by this application 
s whether participation in the development of a shopping and office 
°mPlex on a parcel of real estate in the Slater Mall urban renewal 
Pr°ject constitutes investment in a project designed primarily to 
P r 0 T n o t e community welfare. 

1162 
-2-
The Slater Mall urban renewal area encompasses approximately 
57 acres in the downtown business district of Pawtucket, Rhode Island. 
Applicant proposes to participate as a limited partner in SMA in the 
development of one parcel of real estate in the Slater Mall urban 
renewal area. SMA intends to construct a five-story retail-commercial-
restaurant complex on that parcel at an estimated construction cost 
o f approximately $3.4 million, of which $2 million will be provided 
in the form of a loan from Applicant's banking subsidiary, Rhode 
Island Hospital Trust National Bank ("Bank"), secured by a first 
m°rtgage and a loan of $.7 million from WRC secured by a second 
mortgage. Under the limited partnership agreement, the partners 
have contributed $15,000 to SMA's capital account, and additional 
funds would be provided to SMA by the partners in the form of un-
secured subordinated loans to the partnership. The proposed shopping 
and office complex would be occupied by various retail and commercial 
tenants, as well as by a branch office of Bank. 
The commercial nature of development and ownership of a 
t o p p i n g and o f f i c e complex and the projected rate of return raise ' 
the question as to whether the project is designed primarily to 
Promote community welfare or whether i t is primarily designed as 
a Profit-making venture. 
The mere fact that an investment relates in some manner 
to an urban renewal project is not sufficient to justify a conclusion 
that it is designed primarily to promote community welfare. Urban 

-3-
1163 
renewal refers to the use of the eminent domain power to remove slums 
and blighted areas from our cities through the acquisition of large 
tracts of land, the demolition of existing structures, and the sale 
o f that land for development purposes at subsidized prices to those 
billing to construct new buildings and facilities on that land. New 
structures erected in an urban renewal project need not be for the 
benefit of low or moderate income persons, and may, in fact, be 
exclusively devoted to luxury or commercial uses. An investment by 
a bank holding company to develop a commercial structure to be con-
structed on urban renex^al land therefore is viewed no differently 
t* h 
an an investment to develop a commercial structure on non-urban 
renewal land. This should not be considered a disparagement of the 
efforts of federal, state, or local agencies involved in solving our 
U r b a n problems but rather is a recognition that the Board must con-
sider other factors in charting the course of bank holding company 
development. 
Of course, construction of a five-story shopping and 
fice complex should stimulate the local economy and, to that extent, 
Promote community welfare. However, to conclude that every activity 
that has such effect is a permissible activity for bank holding com-
panies would be to create a loophole in the Act through which a bank 
Elding company could engage in virtually any activity thereby 
n uHifying Congress1 basic intent to separate banking from commerce. 
To 
avoid such a consequence, the Board requires that promotion of 
immunity welfare be the primary thrust of a proposed activity under 
SGction 225.4(a)(7) rather than a mere collateral effect of the activity. 

1164 
-2-
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record before us, the Board concludes that the primary purpose 
of Applicant's proposal is to enter into a potentially highly profit-
able commercial venture and is not within the scope of the activity 
Permitted by section 225.4(a)(7) of Regulation Y. 
Accordingly, the application is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors,Ineffective May 2, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
l o o t i n g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
paane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Mitchell and Maisel. 

1165 
Item No. 7 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R B 
5/2/72 
o f 
t h e : 
S ^ B M - 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
b 
• • 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A Q D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O 
T H E 
U I J A W D 
Hay 4, 1972 
In response to a significant number of inquiries forwarded 
t o the Board by staff of the Reserve Banks, the Board has considered 
the question of whether a Voting Trust or a Buy-Sell Agreement 
relating to the voting shares of a bank constitutes a "company" as 
defined by § 2(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act. Section 2(b) 
defines a "company" as, 
. , any corporation, partnership, business trust, 
association, or similar organization, or any other 
trust unless by its terms it must terminate within 
25 years for not later than 21 years and 10 months 
after the death of individuals living on the effec-
tive date of the trust). . . . " 
The Board has reviewed the essential elements of Voting 
ru{*t and Buy-Sell Agreements in light of the underlying purposes 
the Bank Holding Company Act and has recognized several conditions 
ich appear common among these agreements and, when found to exist, 
C a« be useful in determining the applicability of the Act to these 
a8reements. 
Application of these conditions as guidelines for § 2(b) 
c°nsiderations should reduce the necessity for detailed ad hoc analysis 
°f various agreements by providing a basis of uniform interpretation. 
Therefore, the Board has determined that, under most 
^feumstances, a Voting Trust Agreement should no_t be considered 
a 
company" as defined in § 2(b) of the Act if it (1) relates 
to the shares of a single bank, (2) terminates within 25 years, 
y 
en£agcs in no other activity except to hold and vote the shares 
a single bank, and (4) involves parties who are not participants 
n a"y similar Voting Trust or related agreement with respect to 
a n y °ther bank or nonbank business. 

26 
-2-
Further, a Buy-Sell Agreement which satisfies conditions 1, 2, 
and 4 above with respect to Voting Trust Agreements should not, under 
most circumstances, be considered a "company" under 
§ 2(b) of the Act. 
It is the Board's opinion that Voting Trusts and Buy-Sell 
Agreements which satisfy all the conditions specified above, in most 
circumstances, do not present relationships at which the Bank Holding 
Company Act is aimed. Therefore, these "agreements" should not be 
required to register as bank holding companies under the Act unless 
the Reserve Ba-rlc has knowledge of some other circumstances that would 
suggest an attempt to circumvent the purposes of the Bank Holding 
Company Act. 
Voting Trust and Stock-Purchase Agreements which do not 
satisfy all of the above specified conditions should not be automat-
ically required to register but should continue to be reviewed in 
detail for elements of "company" status. 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
J Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND THE 
VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 
