MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 30, 1971 

36 CA 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, December 30, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
Members of the staff who had attended the meeting for the purpose 
of the weekly review then withdrew and the following entered: 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3 6 o 
12/30/71 
-2-
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmi11, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate members of the staff. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on December 22 and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco on December 23, 1971, of the rates on advances and dis-
counts in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved an application of Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Clay 
County State Bank, Excelsior Springs, Missouri, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved issuance of an announcement of 
the transfer to the National Archives of the 1966 minutes of the Federal 
Open Market Committee. A copy of the announcement is attached as Item 
No. 2, along with a copy of Chairman Burns' letter to the Archivist of 
the United States. 

3606 
12/30/71 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation in a memorandum dated December 28, 
1971, to publish a Spanish language translation of the pamphlet, What 
Truth in Lending Means To You, to meet the demand for educational 
materials on the subject in Spanish-speaking areas of the United States 
and in Puerto Rico. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland regarding construction of a new coin vault and loading 
dock facilities at the Pittsburgh Bank. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved an application of Fidelity 
International Bank, New York, New York, to acquire the stock of Fidelity 
International Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and to continue 
to hold various stocks now held by Fidelity International Corporation 
after it is liquidated. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Nassau branches. In a memorandum dated December 8, 1971, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
applications of Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, Tennessee, and National 
Bank of Commerce, Memphis, Tennessee, to establish branches in Nassau, 
Bahamas. 

36o7 
12/30/71 
-4-
The applications were approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissenting. It was understood that the applicants would be subject to 
the same conditions imposed on similar applicants at the Board meeting 
on December 15, 1971. At that meeting the Board approved the establish-
ment of Nassau branches by several banks, subject to a special condition 
that any funds advanced by those branches to the head office or any 
loans to United States residents for domestic purposes would be 
immediately subject to a 20 per cent reserve requirement. 
Copies of 
the letters sent to the applicants are attached as Items 5 and 6. 
Midlantic Banks. In a memorandum dated November 23, 1971, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of an alternate 
proposal by Midlantic Banks Inc., Newark, New Jersey, to acquire shares 
of Citizens National Bank, Englewood, New Jersey. 
By order dated July 29, 1971, the Board denied an application 
by Midlantic Banks to acquire shares of the successor by merger to 
Citizens National Bank. In denying the application the Board found 
that the acquisition would have important adverse effects on competi-
tion; would have an adverse effect on the convenience and needs of 
Englewood since it would preserve Citizens Bank's home office protec-
tion under New Jersey law and close that city to branching from without; 
and would not be in the public interest. As an alternate to the original 
application, applicant now proposed to transfer Citizens Bank's home 
office from Englewood to Tenafly, where the bank has a branch office, 
thus eliminating home office protection in Englewood. 

3608 
12/30/71 
-5-
At today's meeting Governors Mitchell and Daane said that in 
order to vote on the proposed acquisition they needed up-to-date infor-
mation on the holding company situation in New Jersey. After discussion 
during which Governor Brimmer indicated that he felt the Board now had 
adequate information to act on the proposal, action was deferred, and 
the staff was requested to prepare a current analysis of the New Jersey 
banking structure. 
United Missouri Bancshares. 
On December 9, 1971, the Board 
considered the application of United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas 
City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank of Jacomo, Blue Springs, 
Missouri. A majority of the members present at that meeting were 
inclined to deny the application, since it appeared that Bank of Jacomo 
had been chartered with the intention of realizing a profit through 
selling the bank to a holding company at an early date. However, ques-
tions were raised about the specific grounds for denial, and the staff 
had been asked to prepare a denial order for the Board's consideration. 
A denial order and supporting statement had now been prepared and were 
attached to a memorandum from the Legal Division dated December 20, 1971. 
The draft statement cited certain areas of concern to the Board, such as 
the large premium proposed to be paid to stockholders of Bank of Jacomo, 
and the possibility that the charter might have been obtained for 
speculative purposes. 

38n9 
12/30/71 
-6-
Discussion indicated general agreement with the content of the 
statement; however, there were several suggestions for revisions. 
The Board thereupon unanimously denied the application, and 
asked that the statement be revised as suggested and brought back for 
further consideration. 
First Tulsa Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum dated December 9, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of an application of First Tulsa Bancorporation, Inc., Tulsa, Oklahoma, 
to acquire 14.5 per cent of the shares of Southeastern State Bank, also 
of Tulsa. It was noted in the memorandum that although approval of the 
application would not bring Southeastern State Bank into the holding 
company as a subsidiary, the acquisition would indicate a rebuttable 
presumption of control under section 225.2 of Regulation Y, Bank Holding 
Companies. A draft order covering approval of the application was 
attached to a memorandum from the Legal Division dated December 15, 1971. 
Also attached to the memorandum was a draft letter informing the appli-
cant that the Board had made a preliminary determination that, upon 
consummation of the acquisition, it would control Southeastern State 
Bank. 
During today's discussion questions were raised about the 
structure of the Tulsa banking market and about the competitive conse-
quences of the affiliation between First National Bank and Trust Company 
of Tulsa, Southeastern State Bank, Admiral State Bank, and Community 
State Bank, all located in Tulsa. 

12/30/71 
-7-
Action on the application was thereupon deferred, with the 
understanding that the staff would provide additional information for 
the Board's consideration. 
Trade Development Bank Holdings S.A. In a memorandum dated 
December 21, 1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recom-
mended approval of the application of Trade Development Bank Holdings 
S.A., Luxembourg, Luxembourg, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of indirect control of 51.6 per cent of the voting shares of 
Republic National Bank of New York, New York, New York. 
It was noted in the memorandum that Trade Development Bank had 
been asked to provide the Board with certain information on its commodity 
business activities, and that since that information had not yet been 
provided, it was unclear whether the applicant's commodity operations 
complied with the Board's regulations under section 4(c)(9) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act. 
Discussion indicated that several members of the Board had 
reservations about acting on the application until the requested informa-
tion had been received and analyzed. Action on the application was 
deferred pending receipt of the appropriate information. 
Connecticut Bancshares Corporation. The Board unanimously 
approved an application of Connecticut Bancshares Corporation, New 
York, New York, to become a bank holding company through acquisition 
of shares of Northern Connecticut National Bank, Windsor Locks, 

3611 
12/30/71 
-8-
Connecticut, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation. The Board unanimously 
approved an application of Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities 
of First National Leasing Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
It was understood that 
the order that had been prepared for the Board's consideration would be 
revised to include Governor Robertson's suggestion that applicant would 
be permitted to engage only in the activities now conducted by First 
National Leasing Corporation that are authorized by section 225.4(a)(6) 
of Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies. A copy of the order is attached 
as Item No. 8. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3612 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Clay County State Bank, Excelsior Springs, Missouri ("Bank"), 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
nil comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest bank holding company and the 
second largest banking organization in Missouri, has 20 subsidiary banks 
with $936,7 million in deposits, representing 8.2 per cent of the total 
commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of 
June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved by the Board through November 30, 1971.) 
Bank ($8.3 million deposits), located approximately twenty-
eight miles northeast of downtown Kansas City, is the smaller of two 
banks in Excelsior Springs, and the third largest of eight banks 
competing in Bank's primary service area. Applicant's lead bank and 
closest subsidiary to bank is located in downtown Kansas City; however, 
the record discloses that there is no significant competition between 
Item No. 1 
12/30/71 

3613 
-2-
them, primarily because of the disparity in their size and the nature 
of their tanking business. Furthermore, the development of competition 
between Applicant and Bank is considered unlikely in light of Missouri's 
restrictive branching law, the distances separating Applicant's sub-
sidiaries and Bank, and the presence of numerous banking alternatives. 
The Board concludes, therefore, that consumption of the proposed 
acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any relevant 
< 
area. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank 
are regarded as consistent with approval of the application. Upon 
consummation of the proposal, Applicant proposes expanding Bank's 
range of services to include real estate financing, industrial 
and agricultural development, and fiduciary services. Thus, con-
siderations relating to convenience and needs lend weight toward 
approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
« 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 

Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 30, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer, Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns 

Item No. 
12/30/71 
For immediate release 
January 12, 1972 
The Federal Reserve announced today that minutes of 
discussions and actions at the meetings of the Federal Open 
Market Committee during the year 1966 are being transferred to 
the National Archives. 
These minuter, are contained in approximately 3.400 pages 
of typed material. Their transfer has been arranged on the 
understanding that the National Archives will make them available 
for inspection by interested persons under its usual rules and 
procedures, 
Similar records for earlier years are already available 
at the National Archives on the same basis; minutes of the 
Committee for the years 1936 through 1960 were transferred in 
1964, those for 1961 were transferred in 1967, and those for 
1962. through 1963 were transferred in 1970. The National Archives 
will furnish complete microfilm copies of these earlier minutes 
for a fee, and will be prepared later to furnish similar copies 
of the 1966 minutes. 
Copies of the minutes for the year 1966 also will be made 
available later for public inspection at the Board's offices in 
Washington and at each Federal Reserve Bank and Branch, the same 
procedure followed with respect to earlier records. 
Meanwhile, 
a work copy is available for inspection at the Board's offices, 
and another at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 

Release of the minutes from 1362 on has presented special 
problems involving international financial relationships, an area 
in which Federal Reserve activity has increased considerably in 
recent years. As in the case of the 1962-65 minutes, a few sen-
tences or paragraphs have been deleted from the 1966 minutes, with 
footnote in each case indicating the general nature or subject 
of the deleted matter. 

3617 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
January 12, 1972 
Mr. James B. Rlioads 
Archivist of the United States 
National Archives Building 
Washington, D. C. 2.0408 
Dear Mr. Rhoads: 
In January 1970 the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System and the Federal Open Market Committee authorized the trans-
fer from the Board to the custody of the Archivist of the United 
States of the original minutes of meetings of the Federal Open 
Market Committee for the years 1962-65. 
Transfer of the minutes 
of meetings from the date the Committee was organized in March 
1936 to the end of the year 1960 was authorized in 1964, and 
transfer of the 1961 minutes was authorized in 1967. Those trans-
fers were completed, and the records in question have since been 
available to interested persons. 
The Board and the Committee have now authorized the transfer to the 
custody of the Archivist of the United States of the minutes of 
meetings of the Committee for the year 1966. These minutes, com-
prising about 1430 pages of typed material, are being transferred 
on the same understanding as that applicable to earlier minutes, 
that is, that the National Archives will make them available for 
inspection by interested persons under its usual rules and procedures. 
As you will observe from the prefatory note attached to the volume 
for 1966, a few pages of the original minutes have been replaced by 
substitute pages on which particular passages contained in the 
original minutes are deleted. 
In each such case, the point at which 
the deletion lias been made is noted and the general nature or sub-
ject of the omitted passage is indicated by footnote. 
Reasons for 
which deletions have been made are given in the prefatory note. 
This general procedure was also followed in the minutes for 1962-65. 
Sincerely your 
Arthur F. Burns 

3618 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/30/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 3, 1972 
Mr. Willis J. Winn, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Cleveland, Ohio 44101 
Dear Mr. Winn: 
The Board has considered the proposal from the Pittsburgh 
Branch to construct a new intermediate security coin vault and 
loading dock facilities, and to perform the necessary repairs, 
alterations and site work to the existing building as outlined in 
the letters of August 4, 1971 and November 12, 1971, from Vice 
President Campbell, subsequent drawing revisions and other supporting 
material submitted by the Branch. 
While the Board interposes no objection to the total 
estimated cost of $2.44 million or to the planning aspects of the 
proposed facilities, the Board and its consulting architect have 
reservations regarding the suggested site design and exterior 
architectural decorations. 
In this regard the Board's consulting 
architect suggests that an experienced consultant be retained who 
might offer suggestions toward improving the site details and 
planting. 
These improvements should be incorporated into the 
construction documents prior to their release for bids. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

.O, 
December 30, 1971 
o o i y 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N • R S 
OF THE 
item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/30/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
V V j ! ill | V-C'.' 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE QDAHD 
Fidelity International Bank 
120 Broadway 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of October 8, 1971, stating that 
your parent bank wishes to combine the activities of its wholly-owned 
subsidiaries, Fidelity International Corporation ("FIC") and Fidelity 
International Bank ("FIB") under a plan whereby: 
(1) The Fidelity Bank will contribute all of the outstanding 
shares of capital stock of FIC presently owned and held 
by The Fidelity Bank to FIB as a capital contribution; 
(2) FIB will acquire the assets and assume the liabilities 
of FIC; and 
(3) FIC will be liquidated and dissolved. 
In accordance with your request, the Board of Governors approves 
the plan as outlined and grants consent for FIB to acquire and hold all of 
the stock of FIC and all shares of stock now held by FIC, directly and 
indirectly, including all of the stock of Business Associations, S 0A 0 
("BASA") and Fidelity International Corporation (Bahamas) Limited ("FICBL"), 
provided such stocks are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. The Board will also interpose no objection to FIB's assuming FIC's 
contingent liabilities under the letters of credit issued by The Fidelity 
Bank in favor of Mutual Life and Citizens Assurance Company Limited, Sydney, 
Australia, in the aggregate amount of $2,520,000. 
The Board1s consent to the proposed purchase and holding of shares 
of BASA by FIB is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FIB shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any shares 
of stock in BASA if BASA at any time fails to restrict its 
activities to those permissible to a corporation in which 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board of Gov-
ernors, purchase, and hold stock, or if BASA establishes any 

3630 
Fidelity International Bank 
-2-
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in Switzerland or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to FIB; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FIB will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activities 
of BASA as it may require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BASA be re-
ported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the same• 
manner as if BASA were a corporation organized under Section 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That FIB shall not carry on its books the shares of BASA at 
a net amount in excess of its proportionate share of the 
book capital accounts of BASA, after giving effect to the 
elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately 
preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions on 
loans granted by BASA in Switzerland in the currency of that country. 
The Board's consent to the proposed acquisition and holding of 
shares of FICBL by FIB is granted subject to the same conditions and sus-
pensions as set forth in the preceding two paragraphs, substituting FICBL 
for BASA and the Bahamas for Switzerland, and to the further condition that 
FICBL's holding of the stock of Fidusse S 0A 0 is subject to the same limita-
tions as set forth in the Board's letters of April 2 and October 29, 1970, 
to FIC 0 
The Board has noted that as of October 31, 1971, the foreign loans 
and investments of FIB exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program,, It is understood, however, that the foreign 
loans and investments of both FIB and The Fidelity Bank, which in the future 
will report on a consolidated basis, were within their respective guideline 
ceiling as of December 10, 1971c 
Accordingly, the foregoing consent is given 
with the understanding that the foreign investments now being approved will 
be made within the guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3621 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
12/30/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 3, 1972 
Commerce Union Bank 
400 Union Street 
Nashville, Tennessee 
37219 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, Tennessee, 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Sections and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and not as a 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
of these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
or modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
without benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
office and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
sentatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
in the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
tract under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

3622 
Commerce Union Bank 
-2 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change 
in location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign brandies of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

362 
o 
O 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
12/30/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 3, 1972 
National Bank of Commerce 
Memphis, Tennessee 
38101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to National Bank of Commerce, Memphis, 
Tennessee, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and not as a 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
of these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
or modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
without benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
office and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
sentatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
in the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
tract under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

National Bank of Commerce 
- 2 -
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change 
in location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3626 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval of the applica-
tion. Applicant was recently organized and its financial condition, 
management and future prospects appear to be satisfactory. Applicant's 
ability and plans to furnish management to Bank as needed lend some 
weight toward approval of the application. Applicant would incur 
a substantial debt in the proposed acquisition, but proposes to reduce 
promptly the debt with the proceeds of a planned public offering of 
stock. It appears further that consummation of the proposal would 
have no immediate effect on the convenience and needs of the community. 
However, Applicant has long range plans to enter into bank-related 
activities made available to it through the bank holding company 
structure, which together with its projected new and improved services 
should serve to benefit the public. It is the Board's judgment that 
the transaction would be in the public interest, and that the applica-
tion should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 30, 1971, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
l S E A LJ 
Secretary of the Board 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
i-Iitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman 
Burns. 

3627 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
12/30/71 
MARSHALL 6c ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of First National Leasing Corporation 
Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956, as amended, has applied for the Board's approval under section 
4(c)(8) of the Act and §225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to 
acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of First National Leasing 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Notice of the application, afford-
ing opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views, 
was duly published (36 Federal Register 21624). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired and none have been received. 
• • . „. <i """ • ' 
_ 
* 
• - 
,, • 
-
Leasing personal property and equipment, under certain cir-
cumstances, is an activity that.the Board has previously determined 
to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(6)). A bank hold-
» 
. 
" 
ing company may acquire a company engaged in this activity so long 
as the proposed acquisition is consistent with the relevant factors 
specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant is the second largest banking organization in 
Wisconsin, controlling 13 banks with aggregate deposits of $668 mil-
lion. First National Leasing Corporation ("First National") leases 
a wide variety of equipment and machinery, mostly to industrial, 
construction, and retail firms and to hospitals and nursing homes. 
The gross value of its outstanding lease contracts - all of the 
type described in 12 CFR 225.4(a)(6) - is $35 million. 

3628 
-2-
The relevant product market is the leasing of capital 
equipment other than transportation and computer equipment, and the 
relevant geographic market is the entire United States, Since none of 
Applicant's subsidiaries engages in leasing, consummation of the proposal 
would eliminate no existing competition. Applicant could enter this 
leasing market de novo through its sole national bank subsidiary, First 
National Bank of Superior ($16 million in deposits), or through the 
formation of a leasing subsidiary. Although Applicant has no expertise 
in leasing, no contacts with suppliers of equipment, and no qualified 
sales force, de novo entry is possible. Nonetheless, the geographic 
market is so extensive and the number of participants so large that the 
potential competition that would be eliminated by the proposed trans-
action is not considered significant. 
Vertical anticompetitive effects - that Applicant's banks 
may cease to be a source of credit for competitors of First National 
or that First National may cease to be a source of loan business for 
competitors of Applicant's banks - do not appear to be serious, 
1/ 
First National is a small leasing company 
and has only 
limited access to additional capital. Consummation of the proposal 
would allow First National, through access to Applicant's financial 
resources, to expand its activities geographically anc. permit the 
company to lease more costly equipment. On balance, the Board concludes 
that these public benefits outweigh any possible adverse effect on 
competition. 
1/ Annual business volume of $6 million; its market share is less than 
0.5 per cent of the total product and geographic market as defined earlier. 

-3" 
3629 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c) 
(8) is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved, 
and the Applicant is hereby permitted to engage in the activities 
now conducted by First National that are authorized by 12 CFR 225.4 
(a)(6). This determination is subject to the conditions set forth 
in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to 
require such modification or termination of the activities of a 
holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds 
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, 
or to prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 30, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
.2/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. Absent and 
not voting: Chairman Burns. 
