FR 609 
Minutes for 
.Tune 5. 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

.1908 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 5, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:20 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Marinaccio and Noble, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Certification for removal of bank director and officers. There 
had been distributed a memorandum from Mr. O'Connell dated June 2, 
1969, relating to a certification filed with the Board by the Comp-
troller of the Currency on February 11, 1969, regarding the possible 
removal of Mr. Louis J. Roussel, as director, and Messrs. William F. 
LaRose and Jennings L. Courville, as officers, of National American 
Bank of New Orleans, New Orleans, Louisiana. A copy of the certifica-
tion and brief explanation of the alleged violations serving as a 
basis for the Comptroller's recommendation had also been distributed. 
The memorandum described the legal processes under which action 
might be taken, noting that the certification was filed pursuant to 
the provisions of section 202(e)(2) of the Financial Institutions 

X » 0 9 
6/5/69 
-2-
Supervisory Act of 1966 (12 U.S.C. 1818(e)(2)), which provides, in 
substance, that whenever the Comptroller of the Currency is of the 
opinion that a director or officer of a national bank has committed 
any violation of law, rule, or regulation, or has engaged in unsafe 
or unsound banking practices or in any act or practice constituting 
a breach of his fiduciary duty, and the Comptroller determines that 
the bank has suffered or will probably suffer substantial financial 
loss or other damage, or that the interests of the bank's depositors 
could be seriously prejudiced by the alleged acts or practices, and 
that such violation or practice or breach of fiduciary duty involves 
personal dishonesty on the part of the actor, the Comptroller may 
certify the facts to the Board. Where such a certification of the 
foregoing nature has been made to the Board by the Comptroller, the 
Board may, pursuant to section 202(e)(7) of the Act, serve upon the 
director or officer involved a written notice of intention to remove 
him from office and/or to prohibit him from further participation in 
any manner in the conduct of the affairs of the bank. The Financial 
Institutions Supervisory Act further provides that in all cases 
involving a national bank or a District bank, the Comptroller shall 
be entitled to sit as a member of the Board and to participate in the 
Board's deliberations with respect to the issuance of a "cease and 
desist," suspension, or removal notice, and "to vote thereon in all 
respects as a member of such board." 

isio 
6/5/69 
-3-
At today's meeting Mr. O'Connell stated that the situation at 
National American Bank had been the subject of extensive investigation 
on the part of the Office of the Comptroller over a period of time, 
but while there had been some informal discussion between the staffs 
of the Board and the Comptroller, the Board's staff had concluded that 
more concentrated time and attention needed to be given to the matter. 
The Legal Division had not been able to study the case adequately 
he retofore because of other pending matters, and accordingly it had 
been suggested that Messrs. Abraham A. Dash and Jacob Bumstead, 
Associate Chief Counsel and Attorney, respectively, in the Comptrol-
ler's Office, both of whom had participated in the lengthy investiga-
tion, should meet with the Board for the purpose of discussing the 
Comptroller's recommendat ion and answering any questions that the 
Board might ask. Messrs. Dash and Bumstead were prepared to make 
their presentation this morning. 
Mr. O'Connell pointed out that the certification of the Comp-
troller employed provisions of the Financial Institutions Supervisory 
Act not previously used by the Board and at several stages in the 
discussion the Comptroller's Office had raised the question whether 
the Board had the right to make a choice, following certification by 
the Comptroller, as to the issuance of a notice of intention to remove. 
The Board's staff had held firmly to the position that the Board did 
indeed have that choice and had indicated that they would recommend 

1 9 1 1 
6/5/69 
-4-
against the automatic issuance of such a notice by the Board without 
prior evaluation on its part of the facts of the case. Apparently this 
view had now been accepted by the Comptroller's representatives. 
Because of their thorough familiarity with the Comptroller's 
charges, Mr. O'Connell recommended that counsel for the Comptroller 
participate as co-counsel with the Board's Legal Division in the 
ensuing proceedings, in the event the Board decided to issue a notice 
of intention to remove the specified individuals. Mr. O'Connell also 
proposed that Mr. Holland be designated as the Board official to issue 
subpoenas that might be needed in this connection. 
Mr. O'Connell then responded to a number of questions from 
members of the Board who sought clarification on certain points 
relating to the legal procedures and the charges involved. 
Messrs. Abraham A. Dash and Jacob Bumstead, Associate Chief 
Counsel and Attorney, respectively, in the Office of the Comptroller 
of the Currency then entered the room. 
Mr. O'Connell stated that copies of his June 2, 1969, memoran-
dum to the Board of Governors relating to a certification filed with 
the Board by the Comptroller of the Currency on February 11, 1969, 
regarding the possible removal of Louis J. Roussel, William F. LaRose, 
and Jennings L. Courville, director and officers of National American 
Bank of New Orleans, New Orleans, Louisiana, had also been furnished 
to Messrs. Dash and Bumstead. 

ts: 
6/5/69 
-5-
Mr. O'Connell then reviewed the major portions of his memoran-
dum and noted that Messrs. Dash and Bumstead had participated in the 
lengthy investigation of the case and were familiar with the circum-
stances underlying the Comptroller's certification. They were meeting 
with the Board today for the purpose of presenting the facts as they 
knew them. Mr. Camp had indicated his interest in participating in 
deliberations of the Board in this matter, as provided by law. How-
ever, today's meeting would not be decisional. At a later date, with 
Mr. Camp participating, the Board could consider the merits of the 
case and reach a decision as to whether to accept the Comptroller's 
recommendation that removal proceedings be instituted. 
Mr. Dash then reviewed briefly the statutory authority under 
which the Comptroller's Office might proceed, noting that basically 
there were two types of powers granted the Federal banking agencies. 
One related to so-called "cease and desist" proceedings against banks 
and the other to the removal of bank directors or officers referred to 
by Mr. O'Connell. Under the former, if an agency was of the opinion 
that a bank under its supervision was engaged in unsafe or unsound 
banking practices or was violating a law, rule, regulation, or written 
agreement entered into with the agency, the agency was empowered to 
serve notice of its charges on the bank with a view to conducting a 
hearing for the purpose of determining whether cease and desist orders 
should be issued. The Comptroller had on several occasions made use 
of this power. 

1321 
6/5/69 
-6-
Action under the Board's removal power was, however, without 
precedent. Mr. Dash read the pertinent portion of the statute, adding 
that if the Board should issue a notice of intention to remove Mr. 
Roussel and the two officers named in the Comptroller's certification, 
a hearing would then be set for a date not earlier than 30 days, nor 
later than 60 days, after service of the notice. As provided by the 
Administrative Procedure Act, a hearing examiner would be selected by 
the Civil Service Commission upon request of the Board, and a hearing 
would be held. Following receipt of the hearing examiner's recommenda-
tion made on the basis of the record of that hearing, the Board would 
be required to render its decision within 90 days. 
The Comptroller had certified to the Board certain facts 
regarding National American Bank of New Orleans, with particular 
reference to Mr. Louis Roussel, director and principal stockholder. 
Mr. Dash observed that since 1963 Mr. Roussel had been a cause of 
concern to the Comptroller's Office. He had violated provisions of 
both the Federal Reserve Act and the National Bank Act and/or rules 
and regulations issued pursuant thereto, and had followed unsafe and 
unsound banking practices in connection with loans. As of September 
1968, loans in excess of $29,000,000 outstanding to Mr. Roussel or 
his interests were considered substandard, or doubtful and potential 
losses to the bank. Many of the loans had been made under circum-
stances that would result in benefits accruing to Mr. Roussel or his 

1914 
6/5/69 
-7-
interests, with losses falling to the bank. The Office of the Comp-
troller had attempted administratively within its powers to curtail 
these violations and practices but without avail. 
Mr. Dash explained that most recently the Comptroller's Office 
had resorted to that portion of the Financial Institutions Supervisory 
Act of 1966, which provided that if a bank had entered into a written 
agreement with the supervisory agency and later violated that agree-
ment the agency would be in a position to take immediate action to 
institute cease and desist proceedings. Mr. Dash had met with the 
board of directors of National American Bank and apprised them of the 
position of the Comptroller with respect to certain activities of the 
bank and Mr. Roussel. He had then presented to the board of directors 
a statement of agreement to refrain from specified activities that were 
endangering the safety of the bank. He asked that after a short period 
of deliberation the individual members of the board sign this agree-
ment and indicated that if the signatures were not forthcoming the 
Comptroller would then be forced to take other action. The members 
of the board, with the exception of Mr. Roussel and one or two direc-
tors who were not present, signed the agreement, and Mr. Dash pointed 
out that should the specified activities continue, such activities 
would be in violation of the agreement and the Comptroller would be 
in a position to commence cease and desist proceedings. 
Mr. Dash indicated that a large portion of the loan activities 
in question had to do with negotiations involving Mr. Sam J. Recile, 

1915 
6/5/69 
-8-
a New Orleans entrepreneur, who had a large line of credit with the 
bank. Mr. Recile had filed a petition in bankruptcy and in the course 
of the bankruptcy proceeding there had come to light apparent confirma-
tion of many suspicions of occasions of personal dishonesty and self-
dealing. These instances had been reported to the Department of 
Justice. 
It was the Comptroller's view that the best solution to the 
bank's problems would be the removal of Mr. Roussel from the board of 
the bank. Mr. Dash indicated that Mr. Roussel apparently was a power-
ful figure in Louisiana, having many ties with influential and politi-
cal figures. He described some of the problem interrelationships, 
noting among other things that Mr. Clem H. Sehrt, formerly an officer 
of National American Bank, had recently been named State Bank Commis-
sioner for Louisiana. 
In this connection Mr. O'Connell observed that if the Board 
did decide to issue a removal notice, one consideration to be kept in 
mind would be whether it would wish to subpoena Mr. Sehrt as a witness. 
Mr. O'Connell then inquired of Mr. Dash the procedure he 
would contemplate if the Board determined to take action and it sub-
sequently developed that the bank was in fact in serious trouble. 
Mr. Dash replied that under the statutes the Comptroller 
would be able to issue a temporary order requiring the bank to cease 
and desist from any violation or practice likely to cause insolvency 

± S I 6 
6/5/69 
-9-
or seriously prejudice the interests of its depositors, and such order 
would become effective upon service upon the bank. However, the bank 
would have a ten-day period within which it might apply to the United 
States District Court for an injunction against the order. One reason 
the Comptroller had not in his certification recommended suspension 
was because of the general feeling that given the present environment 
in New Orleans it would be difficult to prevent having the order 
quashed. 
Mr. Bumstead noted that, as Mr. Dash had pointed out, certain 
instances involving personal dishonesty and self-dealing had been 
brought to the attention of the Criminal Division of the Department of 
Justice, and a Grand Jury investigation was now under way. He indicated 
that one of the transactions that took place in 1964 had been presented 
to the Grand Jury at this time--in advance of other possible matters--
because the five-year statute of limitations was about to expire. The 
specific allegations under investigation relating to dealings between 
Mr. Roussel and Mr. Recile were described in the first two charges in 
the Comptroller's certification. Regardless of whether an indictment 
were returned, the Justice Department would not be barred from present-
ing other charges. Mr. Dash added that a lack of indictment would not 
necessarily affect the strength of the Comptroller's administrative 
case. 
Governor Maisel asked what the legal effect would be if 
simultaneous investigations of the same allegations were conducted by 

1917 
6/5/69 
-10-
the Board and by the Justice Department. Mr. Dash replied that according 
to statute the Attorney General had the power to request the Board to 
delay its hearings, which request, if received, should be complied with. 
Governor Maisel then inquired as to the role of the Board on the 
question of the Comptroller's certification, specifically whether it was 
the function of the Board to weigh the evidence prior to reaching its 
decision as to whether the removal procedure should be instituted. Mr. 
Dash suggested that the Board should proceed on the basis of a prima 
facie case. The Comptroller had furnished the charges, for each of which 
there was supporting evidence. Mr. O'Connell added that although the 
decision would be based on prima facie evidence, the Board would need 
to be satisfied that the evidence was sufficient to support the charges. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he had the impression that the 
situation was analagous to an iceberg. That is, the Board saw one-
eighth of the problem while seven-eighths was out of sight. He would 
assume that when the Board met to decide whether notice of intention to 
remove should be issued the Board would have before it substantially 
more documentation than just the stipulation of the different charges 
set forth in the Comptroller's certification. He would assume that the 
Comptroller's Office would work with the Board's staff in making such 
additional information available to the Board that would apprise the 
Board of roughly the kind of evidence that would be put before the 
hearing examiner. 

6/5/69 
-11-
Mr. Dash said that as a personal observation he would recommend 
that the Board proceed on the basis of prima facie evidence, keeping 
as far as possible from the details of the case in the first instance. 
The Board would have the case essentially before it in the form of the 
notice of charges. 
Mr. O'Connell said that while he agreed in general with Mr. 
Dash's reference to presentation of a prima facie case, he thought it 
would be unreasonable to ask the Board to decide the question of 
issuance of notice without presentation of sufficient evidence to 
enable the Board to calculate whether the charges were supported. He 
would propose that in addition to the certification of the Comptroller 
recommending removal of certain officers, with the specified charges 
set forth, the Board would be presented with a staff analysis of the 
allegations that would indicate whether, in the judgment of the staff, 
the available evidence was sufficient to support the charges. If 
individual Board members or the Board as a whole wished to see the 
background documents, they should be made available. 
Governor Brimmer then inquired whether the practices set 
forth in the stipulation were not sufficiently serious to justify 
proceeding under a temporary order, and Mr. Dash described the climate 
under which such proceedings would be conducted and indicated that 
under the circumstances there could be a problem. 
Governor Brimmer asked if Mr. Roussel was continuing to follow 
his allegedly unlawful practices, and Mr. Dash stated that as a result 

6/5/69 
-12-
of the session with the directors and the memorandum of agreement, 
the Comptroller appeared to be holding the line in the bank. The 
situation had not been corrected, but to his knowledge it had not 
worsened. He expressed the view that the signing of the agreement 
by the directors, other than Mr. Roussel, was more or less an indica-
tion of recognition on their part of the problem that existed. 
Governor Sherrill inquired whether the directors had been 
advised of their rights in the matter, and Mr. Dash replied in the 
affirmative, noting that their attorney, Mr. Sehrt, now State Com-
missioner of Banks, had been present at the meeting. 
Chairman Martin observed that this morning's presentation 
had been very helpful in giving the members of the Board an insight 
into the problem, and he assumed that Messrs. Dash and Bumstead would 
continue to work with the Board's Legal Division on the matter. He 
asked that the Comptroller be assured that his participation in 
future Board deliberations in this connection would be welcome. 
Messrs. Dash and Bumstead then withdrew from the meeting, as 
did Messrs. Noble and Marinaccio, and the following entered: 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

1920 
6/5/69 
-13-
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Lawrence and Miss Wickstead of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Pounds tone of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
1 
Pennsylvania, granting the bank permission 
to organize a corporation under section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act to be known as 
Girard International Bank, New York, New York, 
and transmitting a preliminary permit. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
2 
approving the payment of salary to Daniel M. 
Doyle as Senior Vice President in charge of 
the Detroit Branch at the rate fixed by the 
Bank's Board of Directors. 
Letter to Columbia National Bank, Kansas City, 
3 
Missouri, granting its request for permission 
to maintain reduced reserves. 
In connection with Item No. 3, Mr. Ring pointed out that the 
request of Columbia National Bank for permission to carry reduced 
reserves had been brought to the Board's attention, rather than being 
handled under delegated authority, because approval of the request 
appeared to be the first step in a series of actions likely to result 
in approval of reduced reserves for several banks in Kansas City now 
maintaining reserves at the reserve city bank level. 

1321 
6/5/69 
-14-
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Broad and Walnut National 
Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, with Central-Penn National Bank of 
Philadelphia was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptrol-
ler of the Currency, the conclusion stating that the merger would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of First National Bank of Eastern North Carolina, Jacksonville, 
North Carolina, and Home Bank and Trust Company, Hendersonville, North 
Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the merger of First National Bank 
of Eastern North Carolina, Jacksonville, North Carolina, 
and Home Bank and Trust Company, Hendersonville, North 
Carolina, would eliminate no present competition and 
virtually no potential competition in the reasonably 
foreseeable future. The proposed merger would have no 
adverse effect on competition. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Security National Bank of Sioux City, Sioux City, Iowa, 
with Iowa Security National Bank, also of Sioux City, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that the merger would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Citizens National Bank of Chillicothe, Chillicothe, 
Missouri, with Chillicothe National Bank, also of Chillicothe, was 

1
9
2
2 
6/5/69 
-15-
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. 
The conclusion stated that the merger would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Guardian Bank, Springfield, Ohio, into The New Carlisle 
National Bank, New Carlisle, Ohio, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion being stated 
as follows: 
While there is little competition existing between 
The Guardian Bank, Springfield, and The New Carlisle 
National Bank, there is potential for increased competi-
tion between them in view of State statutes regarding de 
novo branching. The overall competitive effect of the 
proposal would be slightly adverse. 
Discontinuance of U.S. Treasurer's custody accounts. Mr. Ring 
reported that the U.S. Treasurer's currency custody accounts in Puerto 
Rico and Hawaii were being phased out at the end of the month, and 
there would be resulting problems with respect to adjusting currency 
needs in those locations. He recommended that a meeting be held in the 
near future between representatives of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations and the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Richmond, 
Atlanta, and San Francisco for the purpose of discussing arrangements 
to fill the vacuum. 
Mr. Ring's recommendation was approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

••f^ri^v-* 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
6/5/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 5, 1969. 
Mr. Stephen S. Gardner, President, 
Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Gardner: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and Organization Certificate dated April 10, 1969, of 
Girard International Bank, New York, New York, and there is enclosed 
a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise such 
of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the 
President, Treasurer, or Secretary, together with at least three 
of the directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen 
of the United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital 
stock is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by cor-
porations the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens 
of the United States, chartered under the laws of the United States 
or of a State of the United States, or by firms or companies the 
controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States; and (3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in 
the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in 
in cash and that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash 
at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the 
Treasurer or Secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining 
instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 
Your attention is called to the fact that Girard 
International Bank will have no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments will 
need to be made under the ceiling of Girard Trust Bank. Accordingly, 

1 < > 2 4 
Mr. Stephen S. Gardner 
-2-
the foregoing approval is given with the understanding that any 
foreign loans and investments of the Corporation will be made within 
the guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of Girard Trust Bank and Girard International Investment 
Corporation, and that due consideration will be given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

l e s s 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
5 0 5 5 1 
June 5, 1969 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this 
day approved the Articles of Association dated April 10, 1969, and 
Organization Certificate dated April 10, 1969, of GIRARD INTERNATIONAL 
BANK duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that GIRARD 
INTERNATIONAL BANK is authorized to exercise such of the powers 
conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
(SEAL) 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1
3
2
G 
s
^
m
M
m
'
' 
'-f*4L 
Rt^. 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
6/5/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 5, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
The Board of Governors approves the appointment 
of, and the payment of salary to, Mr, Daniel M. Doyle as 
Senior Vice President in charge of the Detroit Branch at 
an annual salary rate of $29,000 for the period July 1 
through December 31, 1969. This is the rate fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
May 19, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1927 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
6/5/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 6, 1969. 
Board of Directors, 
Columbia National Bank, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64142 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, the Board of 
Governors, acting under the provisions of Section 19 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, grants permission to the Columbia 
National Bank to maintain the same reserves against deposits 
as are required to be maintained by member banks not in a 
reserve city, effective with the first reserve computation 
period beginning after the date of this letter. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such 
permission is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
