FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
July 1r 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note; Final Minutes reflect several technical corrections not 
affecting substance. 

1G5'J 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 1, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. Unanimous approval was given to the transmit-
tal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of Chester-
field, Chesterfield, South Carolina, with First-Citizens Bank and Trust 

1660 
7/1/71 
-2-
Company of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
There is some competition existing between Bank of 
Chesterfield and First-Citizens Bank and Trust Company of 
South Carolina, Columbia. Upon consummation of the pro-
posed transaction, First Citizens would hold about one-
third of the deposits in Chesterfield County. The overall 
competitive effect of the proposed merger would be adverse. 
Unanimous approval was given to letters to Northwestern State 
Bank of Northfield, Northfield, Minnesota, and Northwestern State Bank 
of Austin, Austin, Minnesota, approving proposals to issue capital 
notes. Copies of the letters are attached as Items 1 and 2, respectively. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First Finan-
cial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of The First National 
Bank of Kissimmee, Kissimmee, Florida, and authorized the issuance of 
an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of The Fourth 
National Corporation, Tulsa, Oklahoma, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to The Fourth 
National Bank of Tulsa, Tulsa, Oklahoma, and authorized the issuance of 
an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis interposing no objection to certain renovations to the 

1661 
7/1/71 
-3-
head office quarters and authorizing related expenditures. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
Edge corporation matters. The following letters were approved 
unanimously. Copies are attached as indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to The Connecticut Bank and Trust 
6 
Company, Hartford, Connecticut, approving 
the establishment of an Edge corporation 
to be known as Connecticut Bank Interna-
tional and to be located in Hartford, 
and enclosing a preliminary permit. 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
7 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting consent 
to purchase all of the shares of Continental 
Illinois Bank (Switzerland) A.G., Zurich, 
Switzerland. 
Governor Brimmer said he had taken up with the banks concerned 
the question of their adherence to the general ceiling under the Volun-
tary Foreign Credit Restraint guidelines. 
United States Trust Company International Corporation. Governor 
Brimmer stated that today's agenda included an item that fell within the 
authority delegated to him, but which he had felt should be referred to 
the Board. This involved the request of United States Trust Company 
International Corporation, New York, New York, for permission to continue 
to hold stock of Financiere UST S.A., Geneva, Switzerland, despite 
acquisition by the latter of shares of United States Trust Investment 
Fund, Luxembourg, at a cost exceeding that permissible under the General 

±667 
7/1/71 
-4-
Consent, and after Financiere UST continues to deal in shares of the 
Fund up to a maximum holding of $500,000. 
The application posed the question whether a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of an Edge corporation may engage in trading operations 
involving the purchase and sale of shares of an off-shore mutual 
fund that invests primarily in the stock of U.S. corporations. The 
Legal Division had explored that question, and in a memorandum dated 
May 21, 1971, expressed the opinion that approval of the request would 
be consistent with prior rulings, but recommended that certain conditions 
be imposed. 
Members of the Board having expressed agreement with the staff 
recommendation, unanimous approval was given to a letter in the form 
attached as Item No. 8. 
Reports on competitive factors. The Board approved unanimously 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of 
Pennsylvania, Reading, Pennsylvania, into Continental Bank, Norristown, 
Pennsylvania. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition presently existing 
between Continental Bank, Norristown, and Bank of Pennsylvania, 
Reading, which would be eliminated by the proposed merger. 
Each of the proponents is capable of establishing de_ novo 
offices in markets served by the other and thus there is 
potential for greater competition between them. Overall, the 
effect of the proposal on competition would be adverse. 

1.663 
7/1/71 
-5-
Transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of 
a report on the competitive effects involved in the proposed merger of 
The First National Bank of Laurens, Laurens, South Carolina, with 
Southern Bank and Trust Company, Greenville, South Carolina, was 
approved, the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition existing between 
The First National Bank of Laurens and Southern Bank and Trust 
Company, Greenville, and some potential for increased competi-
tion between them through de novo branching. The overall 
competitive effect of the proposed merger would be slightly 
adverse. 
Governor Robertson favored use of the term "adverse." 
The Board unanimously approved the transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency of a report on the competitive effects involved in the 
proposed merger of Montgomery County Trust Company, Amsterdam, New York, 
into First Trust Company of Albany, National Association, Albany, New 
York, the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of First Trust Company 
of Albany, National Association, a subsidiary of Bankers Trust 
New York Corporation, and Montgomery County Trust Company, 
Amsterdam, would eliminate existing competition between them. 
If the proposed merger is consummated, the resulting bank would 
become the second largest bank in the market with a market share 
of 20 per cent. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposed merger would 
be adverse. 

1661 
7/1/71 
-6-
First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation. The Board approved 
unanimously the application of First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation, 
Little Rock, Arkansas, to acquire shares of The Stephens Security Bank, 
Stephens, Arkansas, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 9. 
(By order dated February 22, 1971, the Board had denied a similar 
application because of prohibitory State legislation. A subsequent 
amendment to the State law removed the prohibition, and the applicant's 
petition for reconsideration was granted by order dated May 4, 1971.) 
First Sebanco. The application of First Sebanco, Inc., Glendive, 
Montana, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares 
of First Security Bank of Glendive was docketed for consideration on 
June 15, 1971, but action was deferred because the Board had not yet 
taken a position with respect to the extent to which insurance activities 
may be conducted by bank holding companies. 
At today's meeting the staff expressed the view that denial of 
the application could be amply supported on grounds such as the lack of 
a formal offer to minority shareholders and the amount of debt to be 
incurred to finance the proposed transaction. 
Discussion indicated a willingness to act on those grounds, 
without prejudice to the question of insurance activities. 
The application was therefore denied by unanimous vote, with 
the understanding that an order and statement reflecting this decision 

1665 
7/1/71 
-7-
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Midlantic Banks. On an application of Midlantic Banks, Inc., 
Newark, New Jersey, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to 
Citizens National Bank, Englewood, New Jersey, the Board's staff recom-
mended denial, as did the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Because of a home office protection provision in State law, 
approval of the acquisition would permanently close Englewood to 
branching by institutions outside that city, but a merger involving the 
Englewood bank would eliminate that protection. Also, applicant's lead 
bank was located in the Greater Newark market, and a precedent would be 
set if the applicant were allowed to acquire a second large bank in the 
same banking district. 
Discussion touched upon competition from New York City banks, 
the community character of the Englewood bank, and the question whether 
the bank might be attractive as a vehicle through which a holding com-
pany in another part of the State could enter the area. Preference was 
expressed for a merger of the Englewood bank as compared with the holding 
company acquisition route, thus opening the community to branching, but 
there was some question whether that alternative, which would necessitate 
action by the Comptroller of the Currency, should be discussed in a 
statement supporting a denial order. 
By unanimous vote the application was denied,but with the 
understanding that the statement to be prepared reflecting this decision 

1666 
7/1/71 
-8-
would be cleared with each of the members participating in the decision. 
Loans to bank examiners. The Board approved unanimously a 
letter to the Office of Management and Budget commenting on a Treasury 
draft letter with regard to H.R. 8127, a bill that would permit home 
mortgage loans to be made by Federally insured banks to bank examiners. 
A copy of the letter approved by the Board is attached as Item No. 10. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Kenyon, and Cardon. 
Emergency loan guarantees. The Board was advised that a letter 
was expected from Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs that would request, in view of the provisions 
of a new draft bill, further testimony from Chairman Burns regarding 
proposed legislation to authorize loan guarantees by the Federal Govern-
ment in certain emergency situations. Board members exchanged views on 
the apparent significance of the changes incorporated in the new draft 
bill, as identified by Mr. Cardon, and it was then suggested that the 
response to Chairman Sparkman should indicate that the provisions of 
the new draft bill were interpreted as not modifying essentially the 
conditions that the Board had had in mind when Chairman Burns testified 
earlier; accordingly, the need for further testimony, at least at this 
time, was not apparent. 
It was understood that if the letter from Senator Sparkman was 
received a reply would be drafted for Vice Chairman Robertson's signature 

±667 
7/1/71 
-9-
in the light of today's discussion. 
All staff members except Mr. Holland then withdrew, and the 
Board members engaged in further discussion of a proposed staff reorga-
nization. At the conclusion of that discussion, it was agreed that 
Governor Sherrill and Mr. Holland would prepare and distribute certain 
relevant materials, and that the matter would be considered further 
at the Board meeting tomorrow. 
Governor Sherrill then recommended that Murray Altmann, cur-
rently Senior Economist in the Division of International Finance, be 
appointed Assistant Secretary in the Office of the Secretary effective 
July 11, 1971, at an annual salary of $30,500. This recommendation, 
which "was regarded as independent of the proposed staff reorganization, 
was approved by the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
±66® 
Item No. 1 
7/1/71 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAL 
C D S R t S P D N D i . M C e 
T O T H E U D A N D 
July 1, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Northwestern State Bank of Northfield 
Northfield, Minnesota 
Gentlemen? 
Pursuant to section 217,1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $100,000 
in subordinated notes by Northwestern State Bank nf Northfield, 
Northfield, Minnesota, as proposed in your Counsel's letter of 
June 21, 1971, with enclosures to the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1670 
Item No. 3 
7/1/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION, 
1 
Tampa, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of not less 
' 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares 
' 
of The First National Bank of Kissimmee, 
1 
Kissimmee, Florida. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Financial Corporation, 
Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of not less than 
80 per cent of the voting shares of The First National Bank of 
Kissimmee, Kissimmee, Florida ("Kissimmee Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller offered no objection to approval of the application. 

16 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 7, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8535), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and prospects of Applicant and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served and finds that: 
Applicant presently controls eight banks with aggregate 
deposits of approximately $428 million, representing 3.1 per cent of 
all deposits of commercial banks in Florida. (All banking data are 
as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect bank holding company for-
mations and acquisitions approved by the Board through May 31, 1971, 
and also to include a recent Board action approving Applicant's acqui-
sition of Inter City National B^nk of Bradenton.) Upon acquisition of 
Kissimmee Bank ($14 million deposits), Applicant would increase its 
share of Statewide deposits by only 0.1 per cent, and it would rank 
as the sixth largest banking organization and bank holding company in 
Florida. 

l b < a* 
-3-
Kissimmee Bank is the largest of the three banks operating 
in Osceola County and holds 48 per cent of county deposits. The 
second largest, a subsidiary of Florida's fifth largest bank holding 
company, holds $9 million in deposits, representing 31 per cent of 
county deposits. 
The third largest holds $6 million or approximately 
21 per cent of such deposits, and received Board approval to become a 
subsidiary of the State's third largest bank holding company; however, 
the proposal was not consummated. No significant competition exists 
between Kissimmee Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries, the nearest of which 
is located 45 miles from Kissimmee. It appears that the distances in-
volved, the presence of intervening banks and Florida's restrictive 
branching laws would preclude substantial competition from developing 
between them. It further appears that competing banks in the area would 
not be adversely affected by the proposed acquisition. Based upon the 
foregoing and the record before it, the Board concludes that consumma-
tion of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition 
in any relevant area. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, 
its subsidiaries and Kissimmee Bank appear generally satisfactory, and 
prospects for each appear favorable. Banking factors are consistent 
with approval of the application, and considerations under the convenience 
and needs of the communities concerned lend some support thereto. Kissimmee 
Bank is located only eight miles from the Disney World project. Although 

1673 
-4-
the primary banking needs of the area are being met at the present time, 
affiliation with Applicant would enable Kissimmee Brnk to more effec-
tively satisfy some of the credit needs of the new tourist area and its 
supporting industries. Applicant has plans to improve Kissimmee Bank's 
present services and to provide management personnel as needed. It is 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the 
public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the raasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 1, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1674 
Item No. 4 
7/1/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
THE FOURTH NATIONAL CORPORATION, 
1 
Tulsa, Oklahoma, 
' 
for approval of action to become a bank 1 
holding company through the acquisition ' 
of 100 per cent (less directors' quali- ' 
fying shares) of the voting shares of 
1 
the successor,by merger to The Fourth 
' 
National Bank of Tulsa, Tulsa, Oklahoma. 1 
- - 
........ J 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 
U.S.C, 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regula-
tion Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The Fourth National 
Corporation, Tulsa, Oklahoma ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior 
approval of action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 100 per cent (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the voting shares of the successor by merger 
to The Fourth National Bank of Tulsa, Tulsa, Oklahoma ("Bank"). 

1675 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 
of the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of this application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 15, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8978), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal. A :copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
purpose of acquiring Bank ($78.8 million deposits). (All banking 
data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect bank holding company 
applications approved by the Board through May 31, 1971.) Upon 
consummation of this proposal, Applicant will assume Bank's present 
position as the third largest banking organization and become the 
third largest bank holding company in the Tulsa market with 5.7 per 
cent of the total deposits in that market. As Applicant has no 

3-
1676 
present operations or subsidiaries, consummation of this proposal would 
eliminate neither existing nor potential competition. It does not appear 
that there would be any adverse effects on any bank in the area. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Bank 
are satisfactory and consistent with approval as would be those of Appli-
cant upon approval. Consummation of the proposal would have no immedi-
ate effect on the convenience and needs of the community involved, but 
would enable the Applicant to respond to the increasing needs for a 
complete line of financial services demanded by an expanding area. 
Considerations under these factors lend some weight toward approval, 
*t is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal would be 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisi-
tion so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later than 
three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 1, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

167? 
B O A R D OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 5 
7/1/71 
A D D R E S S OFKICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TCJ T H E 
H O A R D 
July 1, 1971 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 63166 
Dear Mr, Francis: 
This refers to your letter of April 29, 1971, 
concerning proposed alterations to the third and fourth 
floors and elevator replacements in the St. Louis Head 
Office annex building. 
The Board will interpose no objection to the 
Bank's proceeding with those renovations and authorizes 
expenditures not to exceed $831,500 for that: purpose. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1678 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R 5 
,. 
.. 
df THE 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/1/71 
• m B m m 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D H T S S OTFICIAL C a P R E S t ' C i N t l E N C E 
T D T H E lirJAKU 
July 1, 1971 
Mr.' Edward Lane-Reticker 
Secretary and Counsel 
The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company 
One Constitution Plaza 
Hartford, Connecticut 06115 
Dear Mr. Lane-Reticker: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Asso-
ciation and the Organization Certificate, dated April 26, 1.971, of 
Connecticut Bank International, Hartford, Connecticut, and there is 
enclosed a preliminary permit "authorizing that Corporation to exer-
cise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except: as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation It, 
the Coiporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will-
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, char-
tered under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United 
States, or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which 
is owned by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the 
authorized capital stock specified in the Articles of Association 
at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and that each share-
holder has individually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his 
stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall 
certify to the payment of the remaining instalments as and when 
each is paid in, in accordance with law. 

1670 
Mr. Edward Lane-Reticker 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Connecticut 
Bank International will have no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans or investments 
will need to be made under the ceilings of The Connecticut Bank 
and Trust Company. The Board has noted that as of April 30, 1971, 
the foreign loans and investments of the bank exceeded the guideline 
ceilings applicable under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program and 
that as of May 31, 1971, such outstandings were within the ceilings. 
The Board expect? that every effort will be made by your bank to 
remain within the ceilings. Accordingly, the foregoing approval 
is given v?ith the understanding that any foreign loans and invest-
ments of the Corporation will be made within the Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and that full 
consideration will be given to the priorities to be given to 
United States export financing and to meeting the credit needs of 
developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

1680 
QDARD OF GOVERNORS 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTQN, D.C. 20551 
July 1, 1971 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it 
by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this 
day approved the Articles of Association and Organization 
Certificate dated April 26, 1971, of CONNECTICUT BANK INTERNATIONAL 
duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that CONNECTICUT 
BANK INTERNATIONAL is authorized to exercise such of the powers 
conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
By 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1 6 8 1 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
.'OVCD;-- 
DP THE 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/1/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
m
m
i 
ADDHKBB OFFICIAL CDi)i;i:sPDNOCNcr 
TO THE HCAIID 
July 1, 1971 
Continental International Finance 
Corporation 
231 South LaSalle Street 
Chicago, Illinois C0690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 18, 1970, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CIFC") to purchase and 
hold all of the shares of Continental Illinois Bank (Switzerland) A.G, 
("Swiss Bank"), Zurich, Switzerland/at a cost of approximately $3,500,000, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the. date of this 
letter. In this connection, approval is also granted for the purchase 
and holding of shares of Swiss Bank by CIFC in excess of the applicable 
_ 
limitations set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) / J 2 UcS.C« 615(cj/ 
of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
Tlie Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of Swiss Bank by CIFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That CIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock of Swiss Bank if Swiss Bank at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the 
consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 
stock, or if Swiss Bank establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Switzerland or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the __ 
time would not be permissible to CIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CIFC will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activi-
ties of Swiss Bank as it may require from time to time; 
and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Swiss Bank 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 

168 
O 
t u > 
Continental International Finance 
-2-
Corporation 
same manner as if Swiss Bank were a corporation organized 
under Section 2.5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately 
preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions on 
l o a n s granted by Swiss Bank in Switzerland in the currency of that country. 
In regard to the operation of Swiss Bank by CIFC your attention 
is called to the following statement in the Board's press release of 
March 15, 1967, relating to the amendment of Regulation M and certain con-
forming amendments of Regulation K: 
"The Board expects that the foreign branches and affiliates of 
every member bank will conduct their affairs in accordance with the laws 
of the countries in which they carry on their activities., The Board 
further expects that member banks (and their foreign branches and affiliates; 
will conduct their activities, in the United States and abroad, on the basis 
of high standards of banking and financial prudence. Member banks are ex-
pected to make sufficient information-available to the Board as will enable 
the Board to satisfy itself that those standards are being met. 
Accordingly, the Board expects that CIFC will maintain at its 
head office all such information as is necessary for the proper administra-
tion of its subsidiaries, and as will enable the Board properly to carry 
out its supervisory responsibilities. All records of CIFC, including in-
formation on CIFC1s subsidiaries, must be made available to the Board s 
examiners on request. 
The Board has noted that as of May 31, 1971, the foreign loans 
and investments of Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company 
Of Chicago and its subsidiaries exceeded by a considerable extent the 
guideline ceiling applicable under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program 
The foregoing consent "is granted with the understanding that those foreign 
loans and investments will be reduced promptly to a level consistent with 
the guidelines; that the investment now being approved will be made » 
^ 
those guidelines; and that full consideration is being given t tne priorities 
for u j ! export financing and for meeting the credit needs of developing 
countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A„ Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

'
w
m
i 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2C551 
1683 
Item No. 8 
7/1/71 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E H O A R D 
July 1, 1971 
United States Trust Company 
International Corporation 
45 Wall Street 
New York, New York 10005 
t 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of December 4, 1970, and 
February 5, 1971, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("USTCIC") to continue to hold shares of Financiere 
UST S0A„ ("Financiere"), Geneva, Switzerland, after Financiere ac-
quires shares of United States Trust Investment Fund ("Fund"), 
Luxembourg, provided Financiere (1) acquires such shares only in 
its capacity as a dealer with respect to those shares, (2) maintains 
an inventory of the shares and a turnover thereof that is limited to 
what is reasonable in relation to the demand for the shares, and 
(3) disposes of the shares within a reasonable time (e.g., no shares 
shall be held for an indefinite period of time based upon expecta-
tions of the performance of Fund). The Board's consent is based upon 
the determination that dealing in shares is usual in the business of 
banking in Switzerland and is conditioned on your Corporation's ob-
taining the prior consent of the Board for the continued holding of 
the shares of Financiere should Financiere desire to hold an inventory 
of shares of Fund having an aggregate cost in excess of $500,000. 
In this connection, Fund shares acquired as a dealer need 
not be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, 
they are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date 
of acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report 
requested by the Board. 

1684 
United States Trust Company 
International Corporation 
-2-
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the acquisition will be made with the resources of Financiere 
and will not involve any transfer of funds, either directly or 
indirectly, from the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No 
7/1/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE TIIE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
FIRST ARKANSAS BANKSTOCK CORPORATION, 
1 
m
m e Rock, Arkansas, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
The Stephens Security Bank, Stephens, 
' 
Arkansas. 
' 
ORDER APFROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Arkansas Bankstock 
Corporation, Little Rock, Arkansas, the only registered bank hold-
ing company in Arkansas, for the Board's prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Stephens Security Bank, Stephens, Arkansas. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the State Commissioner 

-2-
1686 
of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval unless legislation were to be approved prohibiting 
holding company expansion. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 9, 1970 (35 Federal Register 18699), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. Subsequent to the filing 
of the application, on February 5, 1971, the State of Arkansas 
enacted legislation prohibiting the formation and expansion of multi-
hank holding companies (Act 47 of the Sixty-eighth General Assembly 
of the State of Arkansas). 
The Board, by Order dated February 22, 1971 (36 Federal 
Register 3852), denied the application due to the existence of the 
legislation, without reaching the merits of the application. Sub-
sequent to the Board's action, the State of Arkansas enacted legis-
lation which had the effect of exempting the proposed transaction 
from the general prohibition and, based upon this factor, First 
Arkansas Bankstock Corporation petitioned the Board for recon-
sideration of its denial Order. By Order dated May 4, 1971 
(36 Federal Register 8750), the Board granted the Petition for 
Reconsideration and provided an opportunity for interested persons 
to submit comments and views with respect to the proposal. 

i g s : 
-3-
The Board gave written notice of the granting of the 
Petition to the State Commissioner of Banking and requested his 
views and recommendation with respect to the proposed transaction. 
The Commissioner stated that he had no objection to approval of 
the transaction. 
Within the time provided for public comment on the pro-
posal, a number of banks located in Arkansas urged denial of the 
application. Additionally, a number of these banks renewed a 
Petition requesting that the Board conduct a formal hearing, which 
had not been acted upon due to the Board's original action denying 
the application. In view of the fact that the State Commissioner 
of Banking did not recommend disapproval of the application, no 
hearing on the application is required by the Act. Further, it 
does not appear to the Board that there are any issues concerning 
the application on which a formal hearing or oral presentation would 
he useful. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served, and finds that: 

Applicant is the only registered bank holding company in 
Arkansas, and the State's largest banking organization, controlling 
two banks with $247.5 million in deposits. (All banking data are 
as of December 31, 1970.) 
Bank, located in the City of Stephens (population 1,500), 
* 
controls total deposits of $3.2 million and is the next to the 
smallest of seven banks in the market area, holding only 4 per cent 
of area deposits. Both of Applicant's subsidiaries are located 
more than 100 miles from Bank and consummation of the proposal 
would eliminate neither present nor potential competition. Neither 
does it appear that there would be any adverse effects on any bank 
in the area. 
Upon consummation of the proposal, Applicant's present 
8 per cent share of total deposits in the State would be increased 
by only .1 per cent, which would not significantly increase State-
wide concentration of banking resources. 
It is true that Applicant, under present Arkansas law, 
will continue to be the only multi-bank holding company, and that 
approval of this application would add a third subsidiary. How-
ever, as pointed out above, the Arkansas legislature has exempted 
this acquisition from the general prohibition relating to holding 
company acquisitions and there would be no adverse competitive 
effects from consummation of the proposal. 

168!* 
-5-
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and prospects of Bank lend some weight toward approval of 
the application in that Applicant would provide an assured source 
°f management succession to Bank. Considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served also lend 
some weight toward approval of the application in that trust, 
investment, and computer services would become available in the com-
munity through Applicant's assistance. It is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposal would be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, 
that the petition for a hearing be and hereby is denied, and that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 1, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting. Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Of col/,' 
Mf. R£ 
1690 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
7/1/71 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE • O AP D 
July 1, 1971. 
Mr. C. William Fischer 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Executive Office of the President 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Fischer: 
This is in response to your request for the views 
of this agency on a draft letter from the Treasury Department 
reporting on II.R. 8127, "A Bill to permit a home mortgage loan 
by a federally insured bank to a .bank examiner." 
The second paragraph of the draft letter apparently 
refers to a version of this proposed legislation which was 
introduced in a prior Congress, as it speaks of a $30,000 
limitation on the loans thereby covered and there is no such 
ceiling in H.R. 8127. 
The draft letter from the Treasury suggests that the 
bill be amended to require that any home loan made to an examiner 
by a federally insured bank which he is authorized to examine 
be "made in accordance with regulations issued by the agency 
employing such examiner . . . ." 
In drafting this bill for submission to Congress, 
it was the view of the Board that the absence of a dollar ceiling 
would obviate the necessity for periodically amending the legisla-
tion, and that the prohibition against any examination of the 
lending institution by the borrower would curtail the potentiality 
for abuse while minimizing the administrative burden. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
