The attached minutes of the meeting of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on January 16, 1967, 
which you have previously initialed, have been amended, at 
the suggestion of Governor Brimmer, to revise pages 11 and 12 
of the minutes as originally written. The changes appear on 
pages 11 through 14 of the revised minutes. 
If you approve the minutes as amended, please initial 
below. 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Daane 
Governor Robertson 

Minutes for 
January 16, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advis< 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

1 4 1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 16, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Hart, Mrs. Heller, and Mr. Sanders, Senior 
Attorneys, Legal Division 
Mr. Golden, Senior Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, Guth, Kline, Lyon, 
Maguire, Pounds tone, and Rumbarger, and 
Miss Greene of the Division of Examinations 

142 
1/16/67 
-2-
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of Warwick, Newport News, 
1 
Virginia, approving the establishment of 
an in-town branch. 
Letter to The Lorain County Savings & Trust 
2 
Co., Elyria, Ohio, approving the establish-
ment of an in-town branch. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
3 
Corporation regarding the application of 
Amalgamated Trust & Savings Bank, Chicago, 
Illinois, for continuation of deposit insur-
ance after withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to International Banking Corporation, 
4 
New York, New York, granting consent for 
International Trust Company, Montreal, 
Canada, to purchase shares of Fullerton, 
Mackenzie & Associates Limited, Montreal. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of Peoples Bank of Penns Grove, Penns Grove, New Jersey, and The First 
National Bank of Pedricktown, Pedricktown, New Jersey, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion of the 
report stated that while the proposed merger would eliminate a small 
amount of existing competition, the overall competitive effect would 
not be adverse. 

143 
1/16/61 
-3-
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Unadilla National Bank, 
Unadilla, New York, into Marine Midland National Bank of Troy, Troy, 
New York, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition between Marine 
Midland National Bank of Troy, a subsidiary of Marine 
Midland Corporation, Buffalo, New York, a registered bank 
holding company, and The Unadilla National Bank. While 
consummation of the proposed merger would increase slightly 
banking concentration in the Fourth Banking District of New 
York State, the overall competitive effect of the proposed 
merger would not be significantly adverse. 
Bank of Pine Apple. Governor Robertson reported on developments 
in connection with the Bank of Pine Apple, Pine Apple, Alabama, a State 
member bank. In particular, a meeting of the State Banking Board with 
the President of the bank that had been scheduled for January 17, 1967, 
was now postponed until January 31. For reasons that Governor Robertson 
mentioned, including the fact that fairly large amounts of public funds 
were expected to be deposited in the member bank in the near future, it 
seemed desirable that the Federal Reserve urge that the State Banking 
Board's meeting not be postponed until the date indicated. It also 
appeared that consideration should be given to the issuance of a cease 
and desist order. 
Governor Brimmer summarized information regarding the bank that 
he had obtained during his recent visit to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta and said the Reserve Bank favored vigorous action looking to-
ward correction of the problem. 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
After discussion of the circumstances involved, Governor 
Robertson was requested to pursue the matter with the Board's staff 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta with a view to taking whatever 
supervisory action seemed appropriate. 
Application of Lincoln First Group. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated January 5, 1967, from the Division of Examinations, 
with other pertinent papers, regarding the application of Lincoln First 
Group Inc., Rochester, New York, to become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of all of the voting shares (except directors' qualifying 
shares) of Lincoln Rochester Trust Company, Rochester, New York, Lincoln 
National Bank and Trust Company of Central New York, Syracuse, New York, 
First-City National Bank of Binghamton, N. Y., Binghamton, New York, and 
The First National Bank of Jamestown, Jamestown, New York. The Division 
of Examinations, the Banking Markets Section of the Division of Research 
and Statistics, and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York all recommended 
approval, as had the New York State Superintendent of Banks. 
The Division of Examinations summarized the evaluations under-
lying its favorable recommendation as follows: there was an absence of 
significant present competition, and an unlikelihood that future compe-
tition would develop, between or among the proposed subsidiaries; the 
proposal would have no adverse effect on present competition with other 
banks, either larger or smaller, but rather offered the possibility of 
increased competition with respect to certain lines of banking business; 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
expected effects on the convenience and needs of the communities served 
by the proposed subsidiaries were consistent with approval, and offered 
some slight favorable weight; and banking factors were consistent with 
approval and offered the possibility of increased capital in the pro-
posed subsidiaries. 
Summary comments by Mr. Lyon were followed by a discussion that 
centered on (1) similarities between the present application and two 
applications in Wisconsin denied by the Board in 1963 (the application 
of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, to acquire 
Merchants and Savings Bank, Janesville, and the application of The 
Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, to acquire The Beloit State Bank, Beloit); 
and (2) the consistency of the present application with views expressed 
by Mr. Wille, New York State Superintendent of Banks, in regard to the 
kind of banking structure that would be appropriate for the State. 
It was recalled that in Wisconsin the Board had given weight not 
only to the degree of concentration represented by the immediate applica-
tions, but also to the aggregate of concentration in holding company 
systems in the State. However, it was brought out also that both appli-
cations had contemplated the acquisition of the dominant bank in each 
community, whereas in the application now under consideration there was 
not a similar pattern except in the case of the lead bank. 
As to Superintendent Wille1s thinking, he had previously indi-
cated that he would not favor an affiliation of any of 13 specified 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
up-State banks with a New York City bank because they were sufficiently 
large to compete effectively as independent units and because they were 
large enough to become lead banks in regional holding companies; he 
believed such regional systems would be of benefit to the State. How-
ever, Mr. Wille had also indicated that it would be acceptable if some 
of the 13 up-State banks wished to combine among themselves, and the 
present application represented such a development. 
The members of the Board then stated their views, beginning 
with Governor Shepardson, who said he agreed with the Division of 
Examinations regarding the absence of anticompetitive effects as far 
as the several individual markets were concerned. For the up-State 
area as a whole, he believed there was a positive factor because that 
area was experiencing a considerable growth of large-scale business and 
industry. This growing stage of the economy generated larger credit 
needs that could be served to good advantage by the development of 
larger and stronger institutions outside New York City. It seemed to 
him the proposal presented an opportunity for increasing competition 
rather than diminishing it. He would follow the recommendation of the 
Division. 
Governor Mitchell commented that he also would accept the Divi-
sion s recommendation. He thought there was a little more weight on the 
favorable side than had been indicated. He somewhat disliked the size 
of the three proposed subsidiaries that were to be tied to the lead bank, 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
but that was a matter of judgment, and in New York State a $1 billion 
banking organization did not loom as large as it would in some other 
States. 
Governor Daane stated that he would favor the application. He 
did not think the anticompetitive considerations gave cause for worry, 
and there seemed to be a plus consideration in the industrial and busi-
ness development of the up-State area, as Governor Shepardson had pointed 
out. 
Governor Maisel said he would approve on the basis that it was 
a regional holding company system being created, with only the lead 
bank being of substantial size. With some possibility that competition 
would be increased in the areas served by the smaller subsidiary banks, 
he did not believe the overall competitive effect was adverse. 
Governor Brimmer said he would approve, not because he was per-
suaded that there were positive and strong advantages, but because the 
elements of the situation seemed consistent with approval. He thought 
it might be desirable for the Board to reach a judgment on the general 
question of regional bank holding company organizations. Since the 
Board had not done so but the view of the State Bank Superintendent in 
that respect was clear, he would accept the latter's conclusions as to 
the preferability of regional holding company systems in the New York 
State banking structure. In that context he would accept the proposal 
as being consistent with approval, but he did not anticipate the advan-
tages seen by some of the other members of the Board. 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
Governor Robertson observed that his responsibility was to 
follow his own judgment rather than that of the State Bank Superinten-
dent. The proposal represented one more step toward vesting control of 
the banking resources of the State in a few organizations, which he did 
not believe was best for the public welfare. Three of the four banks 
involved in this proposal were relatively large banks, and even the 
fourth, with deposits of $59 million, was not small. He could not see 
that banking services to the public would be improved. In their present 
status the banks could serve large borrowers through participations; the 
proposed organization would merely hold the participations within its 
own group. Some of the available information on comparative growth 
rates even suggested that, if anything, the public might be served 
better by smaller institutions than by large ones. Consummation of the 
proposal would eliminate all possible future competition among the four 
banks, all of which were growing. And the need for a regional holding 
company group to compete with Marine Midland had not been demonstrated. 
He had gone through Superintendent Wille's reasoning, but had not found 
it persuasive. Since he failed to see how the public would benefit, he 
would disapprove the application. 
Chairman Martin stated that he supported the recommendation and 
would vote to approve. He could see little in favor of the proposal 
under the statutory factors but nothing against it. However, the estab-
lishment of a progressive banking organization would be of some value. 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
The application of Lincoln First Group Inc. was thereupon 
approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. It was understood that an 
order and statement reflecting this decision would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration, and that a dissenting statement by Governor 
Robertson also would be prepared. 
Application of Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation. There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations 
dated January 6, 1967, and other pertinent papers relating to an appli-
cation by Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
to acquire 80 per cent or more of the outstanding voting shares of Bank 
of Greenfield, Greenfield, Wisconsin, a proposed new nonmember insured 
bank. The Division's recommendation was favorable, as were those of 
the Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
After comments by Mr. Lyon summarizing the material that had 
been distributed, the application was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that an order and statement reflecting this decision would 
be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Messrs. Smith, Golden, Burton, Donovan, Guth, Lyon, Kline, 
Poundstone, and Rumbarger, and Miss Greene then withdrew from the meet-
ing and Messrs. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board, Holland, Adviser to 
the Board, and Forrestal, Senior Attorney, entered the room. 
Legislative recommendations. There had been distributed a memo-
randum from the Legal Division dated January 11, 1967, submitting draft 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
material for the section on legislative recommendations in the Board's 
Annual Report for 1966. The material covered each of the recommenda-
tions made by the Board in its 1965 Annual Report except where legisla-
tion had now been enacted and except for reinstating the recommendation 
designed to resolve the conflict between the Board and the Comptroller 
of the Currency regarding the interpretation of present law in respect 
to commercial bank underwriting of revenue bonds. The United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia had recently interpreted 
the law in the same manner as the Board. However, if the Board should 
change its position on the question whether member banks should be per-
mitted to underwrite revenue bonds, a recommendation reflecting that 
change would be appropriate. 
The memorandum pointed out also that no draft recommendations 
had been included on two other subjects, namely, the establishing and 
purchasing by member banks of the stock of operations subsidiaries 
(organizations designed to serve, in effect, as separately-incorporated 
departments of the bank, performing functions that the bank was empowered 
to perform directly); and the question whether section 8 of the Clayton 
Act should be amended to narrow the excessively wide scope of the pro-
vision that permits interlocking directorates between banks if 50 per 
cent of the common stock of one is owned directly or indirectly "by 
persons who own directly or indirectly more than 50 per centum of the 
common stock" of the other. 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
The memorandum pointed out that some of the proposed recommenda-
tions had not previously been submitted to Congress. It also raised the 
question whether the Board wished to resubmit by letter certain recom-
mendations that had been transmitted to the Chairmen of the Banking and 
Currency Committees in 1965. 
Summary comments by Mr. Sanders were followed by a discussion 
of the question of revenue bond underwriting. 
Comments regarding the bearing upon the question of the recent 
decision by the District Court brought out that if the decision was 
appealed a long period of litigation might result. However, even though 
the Court had suspended its judgment pending appeal, it did not seem 
necessary again to request the Congress to interpret the present law 
since the Court's judgment was in agreement with the interpretation 
followed by the Board. 
The discussion then turned to the matter of reconsideration by 
the Board of the question whether or not member banks should be per-
mitted by law to underwrite revenue bonds. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the hope that a decision on the 
policy question could be deferred and the question docketed for discus-
sion after the Board members had had an opportunity to study the sub-
stantive issues more carefully, including review of a distributed 
memorandum from the Legal Division dated October 20, 1966. 

A 5 2 
1/16/67 
-12-
After Governor Daane had inquired about the prospective time 
schedule and stated that he would like to be present for the discussion 
of the policy question, Chairman Martin expressed the view that the 
Board should not attempt to make a recommendation on the policy issue in 
the Annual Report. He noted that there was a public relations problem 
involved and suggested that representatives of the investment banking 
and commercial banking fraternities should be allowed to appear before 
the Board to restate their arguments, to which he added that in light 
of the District Court's decision the investment bankers were under the 
impression that the Board was not about to change the policy position it 
had taken in the past. Governor Daane agreed that a thorough exploration 
of the matter was desirable before the Board reached any policy determi-
nation. 
Governor Maisel said he continued to feel that the Board's posi-
tion on commercial bank underwriting of revenue bonds should be changed. 
However, he felt that it might be appropriate to defer a policy deter-
mination until the Board was in receipt of a request from the Congress 
for testimony in connection with a legislative proposal. 
There followed comments by several of the other members of 
the Board reflecting the view that no statement on the policy question 
should be included in the Board's Annual Report for 1966. As to whether, 
in connection with subsequent consideration of the policy issue, it would 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
be desirable to invite in representatives of the commercial banks and 
the investment bankers, Governor Robertson expressed the view that 
little would be gained by following such a procedure because the Board 
already had the information needed to reach a conclusion. He agreed 
that staff study should appropriately continue, but he felt that if a 
request should come from the Congress for testimony it would not be 
necessary to delay while arrangements were made to call in the respec-
tive banking groups. 
Governor Daane disagreed, commenting that there had been a 
considerable change in the composition of the Board and that the full 
Board, as presently constituted, should hear the arguments presented by 
representatives of the investment and commercial banking fraternities. 
He felt that it would be prudent for the Board to give the impression 
to the parties concerned that it wanted to be aware of their current 
thinking. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he had asked the Board's research 
staff to bring together material bearing upon this question and that he 
understood the staff was getting the work under way. He hoped that the 
Board would take a good hard look at the matter, and he felt that Chair-
man Martin had made a strong point. 
Governor Maisel repeated that he would be willing to run the 
risk involved in delaying conferences with the interested parties. If 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
Congressional testimony was requested, time might permit having such 
conferences; if it did not, he would nevertheless favor providing the 
requested testimony. 
Governor Daane questioned the desirability of awaiting a request 
for testimony and suggested that the staff proceed to develop the var-
ious pros and cons on the matter with the thought that the Board could 
then undertake discussion and decide whether to invite the industry 
leaders to present their views. 
The discussion concluded with a statement by Chairman Martin 
that the Board would at this time simply decide that the legislative 
recommendations in the Annual Report would not include any reference to 
the matter of commercial bank underwriting of revenue bonds. 
In further discussion there was agreement upon omission from 
the Annual Report of recommendations regarding amendments to the Bank 
Holding Company Act and extension of authority with respect to interest 
rate regulation and "cease and desist" orders. 
In regard to the Bank Holding Company Act amendments, there was 
agreement with an observation that it would not seem propitious to repeat 
previous unaccepted recommendations, including the recommendation of a 
"one bank" holding company definition. Bank holding company legislation 
enacted by the Congress in 1966 had incorporated certain recommendations 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
by the Board, and there appeared to be little or no Congressional senti-
ment in favor of the "one bank" definition. Moreover, the Board was 
clearly on record as favoring such a definition. 
With respect to the recommendation for extension of the recent 
legislation increasing flexibility of interest rate regulation and per-
mitting the issuance of "cease and desist" orders, Governor Robertson 
stated that there was general agreement within the Coordinating Commit-
tee on Bank Regulation that the preferable approach would be to get as 
much experience as possible under the present law before recommending 
that the authority be made permanent or the expiration date extended. 
Therefore, it would be well to omit any such recommendation from the 
Board's Annual Report. The ensuing discussion indicated agreement with 
the approach suggested by Governor Robertson, it being observed that the 
terms of the present law in regard to maximum rates of interest on time 
and savings deposits were permissive rather than mandatory, therefore 
permitting the regulation of such rates to be placed on a standby basis 
if that seemed desirable at any future time. 
Additional discussion resulted in agreement upon abbreviation 
of the draft material regarding par clearance and absorption of exchange 
charges, especially in view of the status of current interagency negotia-
tions . 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board approved unanimously 
the publication in its 1966 Annual Report of legislative recommendations 

A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
on the following subjects, it being understood that the material sub-
mitted would be subject to editorial changes and that it would conform 
to understandings reached at this meeting regarding some of the items: 
Lending authority of the Federal Reserve Banks 
Par clearance 
Reserve requirements 
Margin requirements for securities transactions 
Purchase of obligations of foreign governments by 
Federal Reserve Banks 
Loans to bank examiners 
Loans to executive officers 
Messrs. Young, Holland, Molony, Cardon, Hexter, O'Connell, Shay, 
Forrestal, Egertson, and Maguire, and Mrs. Heller then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
Annex building. Governor Shepardson had provided the members 
of the Board with a memorandum setting forth information bearing upon 
questions raised during earlier discussions, most recently on December 12, 
1966, of the annex building proposed to be constructed on the Board's 
property north of C Street. In comments at today's meeting he summarized 
the information he had presented, describing in particular the items that 
accounted for the difference between the originally estimated total cost 
and the figures that now seemed to be emerging. 
Several of the cost elements were discussed following Governor 
Shepardson1s introductory remarks. In particular, the use of a marble 
facade, rather than bronze, added rather substantially to the overall 
cost; the increase reflected not only the more expensive material but 
also the necessity for structural changes to support the weight of marble. 

1 
H i 
A 52 
1/16/67 
-12-
The general tenor of comments indicated continued sentiment in favor of 
the use of marble, although some members of the Board indicated that 
they would find bronze satisfactory as an alternate if circumstances 
should develop in such a way as to make further consideration of the 
bronze treatment advisable. 
garage space and the cost of alternative arrangements of this and other 
components of the proposed building. Certain operating costs were also 
discussed. 
It was understood that the matter would be given further consid-
eration at tomorrow's meeting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Other comments dealt with the amount and possible location of 
L

158 
•Jjfifjf 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/16/67 
A O O R E B B 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 16, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Warwick, 
Newport News, Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Bank of Warwick, 
Newport News, Virginia, of a branch at 135 - 27th Street, 
Newport News, Virginia, provided the branch is established 
within six months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

159 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/16/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N D C N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 16, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Lorain County Savings & Trust Co., 
Elyria, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Lorain County 
Savings & Trust Co., Elyria, Ohio, of a branch at 
A-ll Midway Mall, Midway Mall Boulevard, Elyria, Ohio, 
provided the branch is established within six months 
from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1 8 0 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
1/16/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 16, 1967 
The Honorable K. A. Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Mr. Randall: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 4, 1967, 
concerning the application of Amalgamated Trust & Savings Bank, 
Chicago, Illinois, for continuance of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
There have been no corrective programs urged upon the 
bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, 
and there are no programs that the Board would advise be 
incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank to membership 
in the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 8 1 
^ U r e S ^ V 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
1/16/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 16, 1967. 
International Banking Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentl emen: 
Reference is made to your letter of December 22, 1966, 
Requesting permission to continue to hold the shares of International 
Trust Company, Montreal, Canada, subsequent to that Company's pur-
chase of all the outstanding capital stock of Fullerton, Mackenzie 
& Associates Limited, Montreal, Canada. 
The Board of Governors grants consent for International 
Trust Company to purchase all the outstanding capital stock of 
Fullerton, Mackenzie & Associates Limited, Montreal, Canada, at a 
cost of approximately Can.$250,000. The Board's consent is given 
Pursuant to the requirements therefor in the outstanding agreement 
between International Banking Corporation and the Board of Governors 
under the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
