MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 14, 1971 

74 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 14, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon,! Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
i Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
i^'ihlA 
I '-lli I.. . • i 
1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

1/14/71 
-2-
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mr. Metzger and Miss Wolcott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Implementation of Bank Holding Company Act amendments. 
Pursuant to the discussion at the Board meeting on January 7, 1971, 
the Legal Division had submitted with a memorandum of January 13 a 
revised draft of initial proposed regulations to implement the 1970 
amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. A revised draft of press 
release had also been distributed, along with a draft of letter pro-
posed to be sent by the Federal Reserve Banks to the chief executive 
officer of each bank in their respective districts requesting infor-
mation about the ownership of the bank. The purpose of the letter 
would be to assist in determining what companies would have to 
register pursuant to the requirements of the Bank Holding Company Act 
' 'H' cn 
- 
iCilOUS 
S ' . 
" Miliary ViiTw 
C u : 
as amended. 
Members of the Board indicated that they would like more time 
.* 
! . , 
• ! . . - • 
•• »• 
-• 
. 
I • 
> 
: » 
. 
to study the distributed materials, and for this reason it was under-
stood that substantive discussion of the subject would be deferred for 
Jiutida would otharvitse 
w o ^ r a t e . , 
a few days. However, Mr. O'Connell advised the Board of an informal 
request that representatives of the Department of Justice have an 
opportunity to discuss the Board's regulations prior to their issuance. 
Among other things, the Department felt that it could be helpful in 
making suggestions that might lessen the burden of hearings. 

7G 
1/14/71 
-3-
There followed a d iscussion of the extent to which hearings 
were envisaged on the proposed regulations following the receipt of 
comments. There was also discussion of the extent to which hearings 
on applications under the Bank Holding Company Act were envisaged by 
the staff. The staff was requested to prepare, for the Board's infor-
mation, a memorandum on the degree of latitude believed to be avail-
able under the law to control the number of hearings and on ways in 
which required hearings might be conducted with minimal drain upon 
the resources of the Board and staff, yet in a manner consistent with 
the public interest. Since the Department of Justice had indicated 
that it might be helpful in exploring the question of the burden of 
hearings, it was agreed that it would be appropriate to obtain the 
Department's views at the staff level, as well as to have the staff 
obtain the general views of Department representatives on the thrust 
°f the Board's regulations. Some reservations were expressed about 
J. 
expos ing to the Department at this stage the specifics of the proposed 
guidelines for permissible activities for bank holding companies, but 
!t was agreed that a meeting of staff representatives of the Board 
and Justice would otherwise be appropriate. 
Governor Maisel suggested language for a narrower definition 
than that contained in the distributed material relating to data pro-
V .. 
cessing activities that would be permissible for bank holding compa-
res, and it was understood that his suggestion would be reduced to 

1/14/71 
-2-
writing for further consideration by the Board. Other technical 
changes in the description of some of the proposed permissible activi-
ties were also suggested, and it was understood that they would be 
taken into account by the staff. 
Several Board members reiterated during the discussion a view 
previously expressed that the initial list of proposed activities 
permissible for bank holding companies should be limited generally 
to activities that were relatively noncontroversial, with the under-
standing that the list could be expanded later in the Board's 
discretion. 
Members of the Board also expressed the view that the pro-
Posed letter to the chief executive officers of all banks was lacking 
in clarity, and it was understood that the letter would be expanded 
to include certain additional information. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
the pertinent documents would be revised in the light of this morn-
ing's discussion. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. Governor Robertson stated that an 
announcement would be made later this morning of the move by The 
Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., New York, New York, to reduce to ownership 
the shares of Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, that had 
been pledged to it as collateral for loans to partnerships in the 
Arsons Group. Thus, Chase would assume effective control of the 

78 
1/14/71 
-17-
bank, and a senior Chase official had been named chairman and chief 
executive officer. The press release would indicate that the action 
was being taken with the endorsement of the Federal Reserve Board and 
the Michigan State Banking Commissioner. 
Security New York State Corporation. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated December 11, 1970, and 
other pertinent papers, including a proposed order, had been distrib-
uted in connection with an application of Security New York State 
Corporation, Rochester, New York, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to First National Bank and Trust Company of Ithaca, Ithaca, 
New York. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
. a 
First Holding Company. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated January 12, 1971, and other pertinent 
Papers had been distributed in connection with an application of First 
Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Elm-
Brook State Bank, Brookfield, Wisconsin. The recommendations were 
favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Southern Bankshares. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated January 7, 1971, and other pertinent 

711 
1/14/71 
-17-
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of 
Southern Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, to acquire the shares 
of the successor by merger to Williamsburg National Bank, Williams-
burg, Virginia, which would be in addition to those of one bank 
already held. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Proposed consolidations. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated November 25, 1971, and other perti-
nent papers had been distributed in connection with applications of 
Chemical Bank and Trust Company, Midland, Michigan, to consolidate 
with (1) Gladwin County Bank, Beaverton, Michigan, and (2) The 
Commercial Savings Bank of Saint Louis, Saint Louis, Michigan. The 
staff recommended that the Gladwin County application be denied and 
that the Saint Louis application be approved. 
A memorandum from the Division dated November 25, 1971, and 
other pertinent papers had also been distributed in connection with 
an application of Citizens Bank and Trust Company, Clare, Michigan, to 
consolidate with The Farwell State Savings Bank, Farwell, Michigan. 
The staff recommended that the application be denied. 
Initial consideration had been given to the three interre-
lated applications at the Board meeting on December 2, 1970, but 
action was deferred pending development of additional information, 

80 
1/14/71 
-17-
relating in part to banking structure and relevant market areas. In 
a memorandum dated January 6, 1971, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation and the Banking Markets Section discussed their findings 
and concluded that no additional information had been developed that 
would warrant changing the previous recommendations. 
Following discussion, the application of Chemical Bank and 
Trust Company to consolidate with The Commercial Savings Bank of 
Saint Louis was approved unanimously. Its application to consolidate 
with Gladwin County Bank and the application of Citizens Bank and 
Trust Company to consolidate with The Farwell State Savings Bank were 
.denied by unanimous vote. It was understood that appropriate docu-
ments implementing these decisions would be drafted for the Board's 
1 •*v 'I* i*; > n ' " ; i .. i .. 
; 
1 V ^ 
L . « | * 
consideration. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The National Bank of Orange 
and Ulster Counties, Goshen, New York, into Marine Midland Bank of 
Southeastern New York, N.A., Poughkeepsie, New York, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
Although there is no significant competition presently 
existing between The National Bank of Orange and Ulster 
Counties, Goshen, and Marine Midland Bank of Southeastern 
New York, N.A., Poughkeepsie, consummation of the proposed 
merger would foreclose the likely development of direct 
competition between the banks in the future, particularly 
in Orange County. Overall, the effect of the proposal on 
competition would be adverse. 

81 
1/14/71 
-17-
Other actions. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to South Shore National Bank, Quincy, 
2 
Massachusetts, (1) granting permission to it 
and to The First New Haven National Bank, New 
Haven, Connecticut, to organize a corporation 
under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act to be known as Shorehaven Bank Interna-
tional, Boston, Massachusetts, and transmit-
ting a preliminary permit; and (2) indicating 
an intent to grant consent, upon issuance of 
the final permit, to the acquisition of stock 
of three leasing companies. 
Letter to the Office of Management and Budget 
3 
regarding a National Credit Union Administra-
tion draft bill to authorize the appropriation 
of funds for the Administrator to subsidize 
certain federal credit unions located in 
limited income areas. 
Survey of bank interest calculations. In a letter dated 
December 29, 1970, Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency 
Committee requested the Board's assistance in surveying the methods 
used by commercial banks in calculating annual interest rate charges 
loans. In a memorandum dated January 11, 1971, Mr. Coyne suggested 
several possible approaches, one of which would be for the System to 
act as agent in sending out a questionnaire to about 360 banks of 
various size groups and in receiving replies. 

82 
1/14/71 
-17-
Reservations were expressed as to the appropriateness of the 
Federal Reserve's serving in the role of agent, and various alterna-
tive approaches were explored. The consensus that emerged from the 
discussion favored an arrangement whereby Chairman Patman would 
request the desired information in a letter addressed to the banks 
included in the sample and the banks would be asked to send their 
completed questionnaires to the Federal Reserve for tabulation. The 
tabulated results would then be forwarded to Mr. Patman without 
identif ication of the respondent banks. Suggestions also were made 
for certain changes in the questionnaire form to reduce further the 
possibility of identification of the individual respondent banks. 
It was understood that the staff would discuss the proposed 
procedure with Chairman Patman's representatives and, if agreement 
was reached, would proceed along the lines suggested. 
FOMC policy record entry. - With a memorandum from Mr. Holland 
dated January 4, 1971, there had been distributed a draft of policy 
record entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Commit-
tee on October 20, 1970, and related press statement, which it was 
proposed to release on Monday, January 18. 
Governor Daane had suggested a change in the entry that in his 
judgment would more accurately reflect the degree of emphasis the 
Committee intended to have placed on even-keel consideration following 
the October 20 meeting, and in a memorandum dated January 13, 1971, 

83 
1/14/71 
-17-
Mr. Holland discussed the points considered by the staff in preparing 
the draft entry. 
At today's meeting Governor Daane stated that he had discussed 
his suggested change with the Manager of the System Open Market 
Account, who agreed with his evaluation. 
Following discussion, the release of the entry in the form 
proposed by Governor Daane was approved unanimously. 
Adela Investment Company. Governor Brimmer recalled that 
approximately 17 Edge corporations held minority investments in Adela 
Investment Company S.A., Luxembourg, a private development organiza-
tion established to promote private investment in South America. In 
order to obtain additional funds, it was now proposed that share-
holders would be offered the right to acquire additional shares and/or 
debentures of Adela, whose counsel had sought assurance that the Board 
would be prepared to grant its consent. Governor Brimmer recommended 
that the Board express its willingness to grant the desired consents 
upon receipt of applications from the corporations (to be submitted 
through the appropriate Federal Reserve Banks) stating the amount of 
subscription each intended to make and confirming that such subscrip-
tions would be within the guidelines established under the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Program. Arrangements would be made for expeditious 
handling of the applications. 

84 
1/14/71 
-17-
Governor Brimmer's recommendation was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter subsequently sent to counsel for Adela Invest-
ment Company is attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Euro-dollars. With a memorandum dated January 12, 1971, the 
Legal Division had submitted a draft of amendment to Regulation M, 
Foreign Activities of National Banks, that would provide a means by 
which a member bank could retain its reserve-free base with respect 
to its Euro-dollar borrowings from its foreign branches by substi-
tuting within its base the amount of purchases by its foreign branches 
of certain special Export-Import Bank securities. No amendment to 
Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, was submitted since it had 
been ascertained that the Export-Import Bank would not sell its 
obligations to domestic bank offices. Accordingly, the possible 
•effects of its participation in the program to moderate the repayment 
°f Euro-dollar liabilities by U.S. banks would be limited to banks 
with foreign branches. 
The Board was advised that it now appeared that the announce-
ment of the offering of the Eximbank securities probably would be made 
tomorrow. 
After discussion the Board expressed its agreement with the 
Proposed amendment to section 213.7(a) of Regulation M. 

85 
1/14/71 
-17-
In this connection, the Board considered a press release pro-
posed to be issued with regard to the Regulation M amendment. The 
press release was regarded as generally satisfactory, but Board mem-
bers observed that it should be reviewed against the Treasury press 
statement that would be issued with respect to the issuance of the 
Eximbank securities. 
With its January 12 memorandum, the Legal Division also had 
submitted'a draft of a further amendment to Regulation M that would, 
in addition to accomplishing the purpose of the first amendment, per-
mit a member bank to retain its reserve-free base by substituting 
within it the amount of purchases by its foreign branches pursuant to 
certain Federal Reserve matched sale-purchase transactions (MSP's). 
No action was indicated at this particular juncture with 
regard to this amendment. However, reference was made to the dis-
cussion of the MSP plan at yesterday's meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee. It was understood that Messrs. Holland and Solomon 
would contact the Reserve Bank Presidents who were voting members of 
the FOMC to explain the MSP plan further and assist the Presidents in 
formulating their positions with respect to it. It was also under-
stood that the Board would hold another discussion of the plan in the 
near future, looking forward to the taking of steps that would result 
in a vote by the FOMC on an addition to its continuing authority 
directive that would place the MSP arrangement in readiness for 

86 
1/14/71 
-17-
activation as and when that was deemed appropriate. In preparation 
for the next discussion of the matter, Board members raised certain 
questions concerning which they requested the staff to provide addi-
tional information. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, and 
Kakalec then withdrew from the meeting and Mr. Johnson, Director, 
Division of Personnel Administration, entered. 
Adjustment of salary schedule. The Board approved unanimously, 
effective January 10, 1971, a revision of its regular salary schedule 
for employees as recommended in a memorandum from the Division of 
' 
ji v 
Personnel Administration dated January 12, 1971. A copy of the memo-
randum is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board also approved the related recommendations contained 
in the same memorandum. These included a recommendation by the Con-
troller's Office for the approval of any overexpenditures in the 1971 
salary and employee retirement and insurance benefits budgetary 
accounts resulting from adoption of the revised salary schedule. It 
W a s recalled, in this connection, that Governor Sherrill had discussed 
with the Board during the consideration of the 1971 budget the 
question of making provision in the budget for the likely adjustment 
i .. 
the salary schedule. It had been decided at the time not to make 
such provision and instead to authorize resulting overexpenditures if 
and when the change in the salary schedule was actually approved. 

87 
1/14/71 
-17-
Officer salaries. The Board approved unanimously (subject to 
further review by Governor Daane, who subsequently expressed his 
agreement) the payment of salaries to members of its officer staff at 
the annual rates shown in the following tabulation, effective Janu-
ary 10, 1971, and approved any resulting budget overexpenditures: 
Board Members' Offices 
Howard H. Hackley 
Charles Molony 
David B. Hexter 
Robert L. Cardon 
Frank O'Brien, Jr. 
Joseph R. Coyne 
John S. Rippey 
Office of the Secretary 
Robert C. Holland 
Kenneth A..'Kenyon 
Arthur L. Broida 
Normand R. V. Bernard 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Gordon B. Grimwood 
Legal 
Thomas J. O'Connell 
Robert F. Sanders 
Pauline B. Heller 
Lawrence F. Noble 
Research and Statistics 
J. Charles Partee 
Stephen H. Axilrod 
Lyle E. Gramley 
Stanley J. Sigel 
Murray S. Wernick 
Peter M. Keir 
Kenneth B. Williams 
$37,000 
37,000 
37,000 
37,000 
25,100 
26,200 
23,900 
39,000 
34,600 
33,400 
27,300 
26,200 
31,200 
37,000 
29,600 
27,900 
27,500 
38,000 
37,000 
37,000 
33,400 
33,400 
32,400 
31,800 

88 
1/14/71 
-17-
Research and Statistics 
Louis Weiner 
Levon H. Garabedian 
James B. Eckert 
Stephen P», Taylor 
Joseph S. Zeisel 
James L. Pierce 
International Finance 
$31,800 
24,000 
31,200 
31,200 
31,800 
32,400 
Robert Solomon 
A. B. Hersey 
John E. Reynolds 
Robert L. Sammons 1/ 
Robert F. Gemmill 
Reed J. Irvine 
Samuel I. Katz 
Samuel Pizer 
Ralph C. Wood 
Ralph C. Bryant 
\ ' ; . • • •• i , e 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
John R. Farrell 
John N. Kiley 
James A. Mcintosh 2/ 
P. D. Ring 
Charles S. Walcutt 
Lloyd M. Schaeffer 
Supervision and Regulation 
Frederic Solomon 
Brenton C. Leavitt 
Frederick R. Dahl 
Jack M. Egertson 
Janet 0. Hart 
John N. Lyon 
John T. McClintock 
Thomas A. Sidman 
Tynan Smith 
38,000 
34,000 
34,000 
34,000 
33,400 
33,400 
31,200 
33,400 
33,400 
26,500 
37,000 
32,300 
27,300 
26,200 
29,600 
30,100 
37,000 
36,500 
28,400 
27,900 
28,300 
28,300 
29,600 
26,700 
33,400 
1/ 
2/ 
On leave without pay. 
$32,500 effective January 23, 1971 

89 
1/14/71 
-17-
Personnel 
Edwin J. Johnson 
$35,100 
John J. Hart 
27,300 
Administrative Services 
Joseph E. Kelleher 
31,800 
Donald E. Anderson 
25,100 
John D. Smith 
25,100 
Office of the Controller 
John Kakalec 
33,400 
Harry J. Halley 
31,200 
Data Processing 
Jerold E. Slocum 
36,000 
John P. Singleton 
32,300 
Glenn L. Cummins 
26,700 
Henry W. Meetze 
25,100 
Richard S. Watt 
27,500 
Joe Jackson 
29,500 
Governor Mitchell withdrew from the meeting at this point and 
Mr. Kakalec also withdrew. 
Appointment to SIPC. Pursuant to the authority vested in it 
under section 3(c) of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, 
and after consideration of information contained in a staff memorandum 
of January 5, 1971, the Board appointed J. Charles Partee as a member 
of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corpo-
ration. The Board also named John D. Stoffels, Economist in the 
Division of Research and Statistics, to serve as a deputy to 
Mr. Partee wherever appropriate in connection with the activities of 

90 
1/14/71 
-17-
the Corporation. A copy of the letter sent to the White House reflec-
ting the Board's action is attached as Item No. 6. 
Job grades. Pursuant to a suggestion by Governor Daane, it 
was understood that Governor Sherrill would be asked to review the 
grades assigned to non-officer positions in the Board Members' Offices. 
Directors Day. Governor Robertson advised that as soon as 
views had been received from the Chairmen and Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, in response to his invitation, he would pre-
sent recommendations to the Board on holding this year a Directors 
Day program for new directors of the Federal Reserve Banks and 
branches. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
1/14/71 
91 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
I n the Matter of the Application of 
SECURITY NEW YORK STATE CORPORATION, 
R°chester, New York, 
f°r approval of acquisition of voting 
ares of the successor by merger to 
*rst National Bank and Trust Company 
o f Ithaca, Ithaca, New York. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 
v^ CFR 222.3( a)), the application of Security New York State Corporation, 
Chester, New York ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
0 t the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent (less 
Sectors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of a new national 
k^nk < !nto which would be merged First National Bank and Trust Company of 
a c a, Ithaca, New York ("Ithaca National"). The new national bank has 
*gnificance only as a means of acquiring all of the shares of the bank 
to be 
merged into it; the proposal is treated herein as a proposal to 
CCfUlre shares of Ithaca National. 

-2-
0 9 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
aPProval of the application. 
The New York State Banking Board, in accordance with a 
^commendation of the New York Superintendent of Banks, approved an 
aPplication w i t h respect to the pending proposal, filed with it pur-
S U a n t to New York law. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Gral Register on November 10, 1970 (35 Federal Register 17280), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
ievs with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was for-
c e d to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Titn 
e for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
8 e t forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of the 
Posed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial re-
and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and tu_ 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such 
°nsideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the State's twentieth largest banking organization, 
ntrol8 f i v e banks which hold deposits of $397 million, representing 
• 5 p 
G r cent of New York's commercial bank deposits. (All banking data are 

-2-
09 
a s of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) The acquisition by Applicant 
Ithac a National ($48 million deposits) would increase its share of State 
deposits by ,1 per cent and would have no significant effect on the concen-
tration of banking resources. 
Ithaca National, which operates two offices in Ithaca and an 
°ffice in nearby Cuyaga Heights, is the smaller of two banks in Ithaca 
and the second largest of four banks in Tompkins County. Applicant's 
closest subsidiary to Ithaca National is located 25 miles northeast of 
Ithaca, and no office of Applicant's present subsidiary banks, which are 
Seated in the Sixth, Eighth and Ninth New York Banking Districts, competes 
to any significant extent with Ithaca National which is located in the 
^eventh District. Furthermore, it does not appear that substantial 
competition is likely to develop between them because of the distances in-
v°lved, the location of the banks in separate banking districts and the 
^tate law restricting branching, and, in some instances, the lack of 
8 uitable branching sites due to the rural nature of the intervening areas. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
the proposal would not have a significant adverse effect on competition 
any relevant area. The banking factors, as they relate to Applicant, 
Ua 
subsidiaries, and Ithaca National,are consistent with approval of the 
^Plication. Convenience and needs considerations are consistent with 
aPproval and lend some weight thereto because Applicant plans to expand 
improve present services offered by Ithaca National in such areas as 

09 
-2-
investment services, municipal bond financing, electronic data processing, 
Qnd fiduciary services. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
"-nan three months after the date of this Order, unless such time be extended 
f°r good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 14, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

95 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N • R S 
^ 
lr_ 
Item No. 2 
1/14/71 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
, 
.a" . / • < 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 14, 1971 
Mr. Elliott V, Grab-ill, 
South Shore National Bank, 
1400 Hancock Street, 
Quincy, Massachusetts. 
02169 
Dear Mr. Grabill: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated June 5, 1.970, 
of Sho rehaven Bank International, and there is enclosed a prelim-
inary permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise such of the 
Powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are 
incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(?) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States, 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned 
by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capi-
tal stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per 
cent has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individ-
ually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription, 
•^hereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment 
the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accord-
ance with law. Also, prior to its issuance of a final permit to 
commence business, the Board must receive a certified amendment to 
the Articles of Association adding to Article SEVENTH the following 
sentence: 

Mr. Elliott V. Grabill 
- 2 -
1'Until this Article Seventh is further amended, the names 
of the stockholders and their respective holding of Capic-
tal Stock shall be: 
Name 
No, of shares 
The First New Haven National Bank 
100,000 
South Shore National Bank 
100,000" 
The foregoing approval and the issuance of the attached 
Preliminary permit have been granted on the understanding the Shore-
haven Bank International shall not, except with prior approval of 
the Board of Governors, (1) become "engaged in banking" as defined 
m Regulation K as effective on this date, or (2) underwrite, sell 
0 r distribute a n y securities, except private placements of participa-
tions in its investments or extensions of credit. 
^ 
In accordance with the request included in your application 
dated June 12, 1970, on behalf of Shorehaven Bank International, the 
Board will, when the Corporation's final permit is issued, be dis-
posed to grant consent for it to acquire all of the stock of the 
three leasing companies detailed in your application, subject to the 
u«ual conditions regarding the activities of foreign subsidiaries 
Edge Corporations. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Shorehaven Bank 
nternational will have no original base of its own under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and that any transfer of a ceiling must be 
^ade i.n accordance with Sections II.D.2.a and c of the Revised Guide-
ines for Banks and Nonbank Financial Institutions. 
Accordingly, 
he foregoing approval is given with the understanding that any for-
eign loans and investments of the Corporation will be made within 
h e guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
i|ow in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
ctivities of Shorehaven Bank International, and that due considera-
l 0 n w i H he given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
^closure. 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 D 5 5 I 
i * . 
-i 
> . - 
i 
January 14, 1971 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Js « 
- .. i' 'I ; | £ . - • I 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated June 5, 1970, of SHOREIIAVEN BANK INTERNATIONAL duly filed 
with said Board of Governors, and that SHOREIIAVEN BANK INTERNATIONAL 
is authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by 
said Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to its organiza 
tion pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System of a final permit generally to commence business in 
accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules 
•• f ' la 1L i 
. • . -\o ' . 
and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System issued pursuant thereto. 
By 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
98 
Item No. 3 
1/14/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 14, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred II. Rommel 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Executive Office of the President 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. G. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
Your Legislative Referral Memorandum dated December 18, 
1970, requested the Board's views on a National Credit Union 
Administration draft bill to authorize the appropriation of funds 
for the Administrator to subsidize certain federal credit unions 
located in limited income areas to assist them to meet the standards 
established by the Federal Credit Union Act for deposit insurance. 
Enactment: of the proposed legislation would not affect 
the performance by the Board of its responsibilities. However, 
the Board believes the objectives of the proposed legislation are 
socially desirable. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Konyon 
i 
* K • (U 
»• • ] • 
«<> Cfl I 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

s s 
B O A R D 
OF G D V E R N D R S 
D F the 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1/14/71 
WASHINGTON', 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P n N D E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 15, 1971 
Sullivan & Cromwell 
48 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of December 10, 1970, 
regarding the acquisition of additional shares of Adela Invest-
ment Company S.A. ("ADELA") by certain Edge Corporations listed 
in your letter in Schedule A. 
This is to advise you that the Board is prepared to grant 
consent to the Corporations tc acquire additional shares and/or 
debentures of ADELA upon receipt of individual applications from 
the Corporations stating the amount of the subscription each intends 
to make in accordance with the subscription offering described in 
your letter, and confirming that such subscriptions will be made 
Within the guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint 
Program now in effect. 
Such applications should be made through the Federal Re-
serve Bank of the District in which the Corporation is located. 
Arrangements have been made for the expeditious handling of these 
applications. 
You are authorized to convey the foregoing to the 
Corporations, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

tlOARD HF GOVERNORS 
or THE 
Item No. 5 
4 H O 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/14/71 
^ 
f ® c e 
C o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
Date 
January 12, 1971 
To 
-—Board_of Governors 
Subiect: 
General adjustment of the 
Board's regular salary 
V7—^ivisio n_o f Person nel Admitli stir a t i o n 
schedule. 
Under the "Federal Pay Comparability Act of 197011,. the President 
has issued an Executive Order adjusting the pay of General Schedule employees. 
approved, the effective date for Board employees would be January 10, 1971. 
The Executive Order provides for increases ranging fr/3m 4.89% in grade 1 t:o 
approximately 5.96% in grades 2 through 15. 
Re c ornme nd at i on s 
In keeping with the Board's policy of maintaining its employees' 
salary structure comparable to that of other agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment, it is recommended that the Board approve the attached revision of its 
Regular Salary Schedule, effective January 10, 1971. This schedule is 
identical, with the General Schedule of other agencies, as revised by the 
Executive Order. 
Also, the Controller's Office recommends approval of any overex-
Pcnditures in the 1971 Salary and Employee Retirement and Insurance Benefits 
budgetary accounts resulting from approval of the proposal. 
In connection with the implementation of the recommendation for 
revision in the Regular Salary Schedule the following administrative pro-
cedures are recommended: 
(1) Under the direction of the Board Member in charge 
of internal administrative affairs, the Division 
of Personnel Administration shall be responsible 
for necessary adjustments in hourly rates of WAE 
(when actually employed) employees, "special rate" 
categories, etc. 
(2) The Office of the Controller and the Division of 
Personnel Administration will use Government regu-
lations and interpretations as guides in deciding 
questions of administration and procedures. 
f -
The above recommendations do not cover salaries of the Board's 
official staff. 
Attachment 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGULAR SALARY SCHEDULE 
Boalc Annuel Pay Rate; by Grodas - January 10, 1971 
(Rates in eff.ct December 23, 1969 to January 9, 1971 are ,hown 
on the second 11.ie of each Orado) 
Progress1 Steps 
; 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 6 
1/14/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R C S a 
O T F I C I A l . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
H O A R D 
January 14, 1971 
Mr. Harry Flemming 
Special Assistant to the 
President for Personnel 
The White House 
Washington, D. C. 
20500 
Dear Mr. Flemming: 
Pursuant to authority vested in the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System under section 3(c) of the Securities 
Investor Protection Act of 1970, the Board has today appointed as a 
member of the board of directors of the Securities Investor Protection 
Corporation Mr. J. Charles Partee. Mr. Partee currently serves as 
Adviser to the Federal Reserve Board and as Director of its Division 
of Research and Statistics. 
The Board of Governors has also named Mr. John D. Stoffels, 
Economist, in its Division of Research and Statistics, to serve as a 
deputy to Mr. Partee wherever appropriate in connection with the 
activities of the Corporation. 
* 
Yours sincerely 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary of the Board 
