MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
July 21, 1970 

2181 
Minutes of a meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System with the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks on 
Tuesday, July 21, 1970. The meeting was held in the Board Room at 
9:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator and 
Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Morris, Eastburn, Hickman, Heflin, 
Kimbrel, Francis, Galusha, Clay, Coldwell, 
and Swan, Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco, 
respectively 
Messrs. Treiber and Baughman, First Vice 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York and Chicago, respectively 
Mr. Holmes, Senior Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York 
Mr. Bodner, Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York 
Chairman Burns commented that the action effective June 24, 
1970, to suspend the interest rate ceilings applicable to certificates 
of deposit in amounts of $100,000 and over with maturities from 30 to 

2 1 8 
7/21/70 
-2-
89 days appeared to have been timely and salutary. Nevertheless, 
financial markets were still nervous. There was a great deal of talk 
about economic recovery, but the evidence of such recovery was far 
from being in hand. It was known definitely that some business firms, 
including several that had relied extensively on commercial paper, 
were in difficulty. For all of those reasons, the Board and its staff 
had been devoting a good deal of time to contingency planning. That, 
of course, should be a continuing activity on the part of the System, 
particularly at the Board but with the interest and cooperation of the 
Reserve Banks. The meeting had been called today to discuss some of 
the planning that had been going on and to keep everyone informed. 
The subject matter should be treated as highly confidential, with the 
financial world particularly alert to any kinds of rumors. 
At the Chairman's request, Mr. Holland then reviewed the con-
tingency planning materials that had been distributed to the Presidents 
yesterday afternoon. Those consisted in essence of proposed opera-
tional guidelines, worked out by the Board's staff in cooperation with 
the discount officers of some of the Reserve Banks, for the making of 
conduit or "earmarked" loans to businesses through member banks and 
for the making of direct loans under the third paragraph of section 13 
of the Federal Reserve Act. The present thinking was that the conduit 
or "earmarked" loan procedure would be used to the extent possible, 
with direct loans used only as a last resort. 

2183 
7/21/70 
-3-
A critical question, Mr. Holland said, was when to invoke the 
procedures. The Board had decided not to define the circumstances in 
advance, but instead to recognize them as they developed. Only at 
that stage would the Board give the necessary authorization, but 
arrangements had been worked out so that either of the plans could be 
put into effect quickly. The Board had accepted the contingency plan-
ning documents as working papers that should be polished, refined, and 
improved as additional ideas were developed and comments were received. 
Comments by the Reserve Banks could be made this morning or sent to 
the Board later, and the Board's staff would be in touch with the 
staffs of the respective Banks in an effort to keep the contingency 
plans alive and fresh. 
Reference then was made to a paper prepared by Mr. Treiber 
under date of July 21, 1970. This paper supplemented a memorandum 
from the New York Bank dated July 10, 1970, entitled Discount Window 
Accommodation of Issuers of Commercial Paper under the Third Para-
graph of Section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. In the July 21 paper, 
Mr. Treiber reviewed developments in the commercial paper market, dis-
cussed the problems continuing to confront certain commercial paper 
issuers and the efforts of banks to provide adequate financial assis-
tance to them, and commented on procedures under which it was envis-
aged that Federal Reserve credit might be extended under the third 
paragraph of section 13 if it should become necessary for the Federal 
Reserve to step into the picture as a lender of last resort. 

Zl 84 
7/21/70 
-4-
(Note: A copy of Mr. Treiber's paper has been placed in the 
Board's files, together with copies of the contingency planning docu-
ments referred to by Mr. Holland.) 
At the Chairman's request, Mr. Treiber reviewed the contents 
of his paper, and there followed discussion of a number of questions 
raised with respect thereto. Those questions touched upon matters 
such as the positions of major firms that were understood to be in 
difficulty, problems encountered by commercial banks in endeavoring 
to arrange the required amount of financial assistance to larger com-
panies, prospective developments, the creditworthiness of some of the 
firms that had been specified, the interest rate at which any credits 
extended under the third paragraph of section 13 should be made avail-
able if such lending be undertaken, the amounts of the credits that 
might be required, particularly in relation to Reserve Bank capital 
and surplus, and the matter of participation of loans among the sev-
eral Reserve Banks. Studies that had been made by the Board's staff 
with regard to certain of those questions were described, and it was 
indicated that further attention would be given to them in cooperation 
with the Reserve Banks. 
Questions also were raised with regard to the manner in which 
Reserve Banks might gear up in order to be prepared to undertake this 
kind of activity. It was the consensus that assistance from outside 
the System should not be sought, at least at this juncture, because 

o * or-
7/21/70 
-5-
of the sensitivity of the subject. An observation was made that the 
System might create a situation bigger than it could handle if it 
became known that the System was doing this kind of planning. The 
planning must be done, but care should be exercised to assure that 
knowledge of it was confined not only to the System but to limited 
groups within the System on a selective basis. 
The Presidents were assured that the Board would be glad to 
consider questions that the Banks might have on the contingency plan-
ning materials and that the Board also would welcome any comments or 
, i 
suggestions for their revision and improvement. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
