Minutes for July 24, 1967 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
e niaintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
Advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
nitial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
^ you were not present, your initials will indicate 
n y that you have seen the tninutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

295.8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 24, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
1Q:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
f'» ly, 
li» CO 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Cloth, Noble, and Plotkin of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Greenspun, Sarfati, and Thompson of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Lyon, McClintock, and Rumbarger of the 
Division of Examinations 
fh \ 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal 
^POSlt Tno 
insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in 
the 
p r o °Posed merger of Shrewsbury Bank and Trust Company, Shrewsbury, 
AtVjr 
f : if 

7/24/67 
-2-
2959 
Massachusetts, with Commerce Bank & Trust Company, Worcester, Massa-
chusetts, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Commerce Bank & Trust Company, Worcester, and Shrews-
bury Bank and Trust Company became closely associated in 
1964, at which time a majority of Shrewsbury Bank's capi-
tal stock came under the control of individuals who own 
control of Commerce Bank & Trust Company. This latter 
factor has limited competition which previously existed 
between the two banks. Since the areas served by the 
participating banks partially overlap, consummation of 
the proposed merger would eliminate potential for renewed 
competition between them in the event the close relation-
ship were to terminate. The overall effect of the trans-
r> 
action on competition would be slightly adverse. 
There had been distributed a draft of report to the Comptroller 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
^•uiar i 
Inerger of Heritage-Wilshire National Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
into First National Bank of San Diego, San Diego, California, in which 
th 
e conclusion read as follows: 
There is no competition existing between First National 
Bank of San Diego and Heritage-Wilshire National Bank, Los 
Angeles, but there is potential for competition between them 
through de novo branching. The overall competitive effect of 
the merger would be slightly adverse. 
C'.r-
During discussion Governor Mitchell expressed a preference for 
® ta f i 
n8 that there would be no adverse competitive effects. He noted 
thai 
P°ssibili ty of competition developing between them in the future 
appeared 
lt there was no existing competition between the two banks and that 
the r 
!Vt 
remo te. 

29GO 
7/24/67 
-3-
Governor Brimmer disagreed, stating that the potential for 
competition through de novo branching did exist and that he would sup-
Port the conclusion in the draft report. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the proposed merger 
might enhance competition, and he then raised the question of the 
effect of the proposed merger upon First National Bank of San Diego 
with respect to reserve requirements. 
In the ensuing discussion it was brought out that reclassifica-
tion of First National as a reserve city bank would be automatic. While 
the Board could grant the bank permission to carry reduced reserves, 
l u ^ . . : > • 
Such action would appear inconsistent with other recent decisions, par-
ticularly in the case of the United States National Bank of San Diego. 
Governor Roberts on suggested that the reserve requirement aspect 
Of 
n e proposed merger be brought to the attention of the applicant, and 
it W a s understood that the San Francisco Reserve Bank would be asked to 
* *'' C •: 
make 
t'v 
status. 
sure that First National was aware of the prospective change in its 
iti 
to 
After further discussion the report was approved for transmittal 
e Comptroller, Governor Brimmer dissenting, in a form in which the 
concl 
U8ion read as follows 
Consummation of the proposed merger of First National 
ank of San Diego and Heritage-Wilshire National Bank, Los 
ngeles, would have no adverse competitive effects. 
t t 

7/24/67 
-4-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Chairman of the Conference of 
Presidents concurring in the action of the 
Conference with respect to the treatment of 
Member bank overdrafts at Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
Letter 
Banki 
to Chairman Sparkman of the Senate 
ng and Currency Committee reporting on 
J-R. 10595, a bill to prohibit Federally-
nsured banks and savings and loan associa-
ions from participating in the sale 
Promotion of lottery tickets. 
or 
'to 
Omaha Branch building (Item No. 3). On May 3, 1967, the Board 
authorized the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City to acquire property 
^joining the Omaha Branch for the purpose of providing a security 
Court-
L> parking facilities, and possibly additional vault space, with 
•*th 
7 1 ' 
understanding that before going beyond the feasibility study and 
Katies into the preliminary plans, the Bank would submit the build-
s''' 
t, 
ing 
Re 
Program and available materials to the Board for review and approval 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated July 7, 1967, 
rom f-u 
. 
ne Division of Bank Operations relating to a request from the 
1 let.v:, 
fr 
serve 
TQ Bank for authority to proceed with the preparation of prelimi-
nary Pla, 
M ' 
tects. 
—ins and specifications. As noted in the memorandum, the archi-
drawings and other material had been submitted by the Reserve 

2982 
7/24/67 
-5-
Bank and reviewed by Mr. Witherell, the Board's Consulting Architect. 
Witherell had made certain suggestions with respect to the construc-
tion of vault space, and they had been the subject of correspondence 
between the Board's staff and the Reserve Bank. 
For reasons set forth in the memorandum, it was the Division's 
^commendation that the Board authorize the Reserve Bank to proceed 
with the preparation of preliminary plans and outline specifications 
£ 
0 r the proposed construction, with the understanding that the desir-
ability of including provision for a vault would be fully explored. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter that would implement 
this recommenda tion. 
Mr. Farrell brought out that the proposed addition would be the 
econd to be made to the Omaha Branch. This raised the question whether 
might be preferable to construct an entirely new building. In recent 
°nversations, however, the Kansas City Reserve Bank had expressed the 
firm view that the present site was the best possible location. Mr. 
Far 
rell also suggested that in considering the matter the Board might 
want 
fe 
to keep in mind the possibility of the State of Wyoming being trans-
rred out of the Omaha Branch territory as the result of further studies 
of 
serve Bank district and branch boundaries that the Board had recently 
tested the Conference of Presidents to make. 
ilK l 
Following discussion of the points mentioned by Mr. Farrell, 
dUrln " 
8 which it was generally agreed that the case for going forward 

968 
7/24/67 
-6-
with the proposed construction at Omaha was persuasive, unanimous 
iEProval was given to the letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
City, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 3. 
f'V 
Application of First National Bank of Tampa and Union Security 
^•Investment Company. Consideration continued at today's meeting of 
the application of First National Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida, and 
Union Security & Investment Company, also of Tampa, to acquire a major-
lty o f the voting stock of First National Bank of Lakeland, Lakeland, 
Florida. —^ Union Security & Investment Company proposed to purchase 
a majority (50.25 per cent) of the voting stock of the Lakeland bank 
f r 
Om Mr. p. Scott Linder, a director of First of Tampa and a trustee 
Union Security, at $35.50 a share, amounting to a premium of more 
than 7 
' Per cent of deposits. While directors of the bank, other than 
Mr 
Linder, owned about 4 per cent of the stock, slightly more than 
40 
r j p -
v 
cent of the bank s outstanding stock was owned by 128 share-
holder. 
r s who apparently had no connection with the applicants and many 
whom owned individually less than 1 per cent of the outstanding stock, 
\h 
Ti-
lt was understood that no tender was being made to minority 
sharehr> l a 
°J-aers. However, four directors of the Lakeland bank, including 
Linder, had purchased for their own account a quantity of shares 
Mr 
j.-ju * 
majority of the stock of Union Security & Investment Company 
s trusteed for the benefit of the shareholders of First National 
Bank of Tampa. 

2984 
7/24/67 
-7-
and had expressed willingness to purchase any additional shares tendered 
by 
minority shareholders at a price of $30 per share. 
During discussions at the Board meetings on June 7 and June 19, 
^967, questions had been raised with respect to the possibility of self-
baling involved in the acquisition of shares by the individual directors 
91 
• 
a price that might permit subsequent resale to the holding company at 
a higher figure. A related question had to do with the extent to which, 
a s a matter of policy, equal treatment should be accorded all share-
holders when a holding company proposed to acquire a bank. 
The re had now been distributed a memorandum dated June 22, 1967, 
fr 
111 the Division of Examinations summarizing replies of the applicants 
to questions developed in the light of the June discussions. Upon anal-
°f this information, the Division reite rated its recommendation for 
aPProval of the application. 
At today's meeting Governor Maisel remarked that the issues 
emed clear. As he had indicated in previous discussions, the policy 
^eciaio 
n s appeared to revolve around (1) whether it was proper for a 
um to be paid for majority shares as compared with the price 
rec* to minority interests, and (2) whether holding companies should 
all °wed to expand through the acquisition of only that portion of a 
s 
stock necessary to insure control. Neither policy appeared to 
na> and his inclination would be to deny the application simply 
°n t h o se grounds. 

2965 
7/24/67 
-8-
Mr. Solomon noted that Union Security & Investment Company was 
not proposing to pay a certain price for shares that would insure major-
ity 
control and a lower price for other shares. The lower price was 
being paid by individual directors of the Lakeland bank. The holding 
company could, of course, come along later and buy the shares from the 
directors, without the need for Board approval, but there was no indi-
cation of such an intent at present. 
Governor Maisel replied that nevertheless bank directors with 
a n interest in the holding company were offering a lower price to minor-
shareholders of the bank. The holding company had offered a certain 
Price for a block of stock required to obtain majority control of the 
bank n a 
> and some of the bank directors affiliated with the holding company 
e r e offering a lower price to the minority shareholders. 
Mr. Solomon observed that there was some reason to believe that 
the 
minority shares would remain outside the holding company, because 
company had chosen to operate in other situations with less than 
t o t a l control. 
Governor Daane inquired whether there was precedent for denial 
a n aPplication on the basis that an offer to buy stock at a given 
Price w 
w as not made to all shareholders, and members of the staff could 
!_ 
7 
r e c a U 
no instance in which that kind of situation had constituted 
^tQunds f 
ror denial of an application. 
On the contrary, it was recalled 
that th e Board had frequently approved holding company applications that 

7/24/67 
- 9 -
contemplated that only a certain percentage of a bank's stock was to 
be acquired. However, it was understood that the staff would review 
the record. 
After further discussion Governor Maisel suggested that as a 
n e x t s t eP the staff be requested to draft two statements, one of which 
w°uld support approval of the application and the other of which would 
support denial. He stated that he was not sure in his own mind how he 
W° U l d v°te when he had had the opportunity to study such statements. 
Accordingly, he would prefer that a vote be deferred until such state-
ments were available. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether the holding company could in 
8°°d faith hold outstanding an offer to a group of directors to buy at 
$ 3 5 
•50 shares that the directors might purchase from minority share-
h° l d e r s at $30 per share. 
Governor Maisel replied that he was not suggesting that there 
Wcl g 
necessarily any such agreement. However, the directors could con-
fc&tltg i 
Duy shares at a certain figure and the holding company could 
n make an offer at such time as the directors had accumulated a sub-
tantial volume of shares. 
Mr. Hackley commented that if in this case the directors were 
buyin 
n anticipation of selling to the holding company at a higher 
Ptice 
a n d tllus gaining an advantage, that circumstance might evidence 
b a d faith and indirectly cast some doubt on the integrity of the 

29 67 
7/24/67 
-10-
management of the bank. Otherwise, however, he was not sure that the 
Price paid, unless it involved some element of inside dealing, would 
in itself afford a sound basis for turning down the application. 
Neither 
did he feel that the fact that a holding company was proposing to buy a 
bare minimum of shares necessary to acquire control would constitute a 
Efficient ground for turning down an application. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether it did not appear that the 
directors in question began to buy shares from the minority shareholders 
f o r $30 per share at a time when they had knowledge of the intent to 
file the holding company application and knowledge of the holding com-
P a n y' s offer to buy the majority shares from Mr. Linder at $35.50 per 
share. 
Governor Robertson said he thought there was no question but 
th 
such had been the case. At least that had been his assumption. 
He 
asked when the holding company entered into the contract with Mr. 
nder, but the staff indicated that such information was not immediately 
a v ailabl e. 
Mr. Solomon commented that representatives of the holding com-
y 
advised that there was no understanding, explicit or implicit, 
the holding company to buy any of the shares held by the directors 
Wpr. U 
r e buying such shares at $30. 
It was then agreed, pursuant to Governor Maisel's suggestion, 
that feu staff would draft for the Board's consideration two statements, 

2 S G S 
7/24/67 
-11-
°ne of which would support approval of the application and the other of 
which would support denial, with the understanding that a vote would be 
taken on the application after such statements had been considered by 
the Board. 
Investment in bank premises by holding company banks (Items 4-5). 
Marine Midland Corporation, a registered bank holding company of Buffalo, 
N e w Y°rk, had asked the Board to rule that its subsidiary State member 
banks were not required to include all or any part of the indebtedness 
°f Marine Midland Properties Corporation (a subsidiary incorporated in 
1961 
to acquire and hold real and personal property and lease the same 
to Marine Midland or any of its subsidiaries) in determining under sec-
*. j 
of the Federal Reserve Act how much they could invest in bank 
Premises without prior Board approval. As justification for this request, 
Mq t* ^ 
ne Midland cited, among other reasons, a ruling of the Comptroller of 
the 
Currency that indebtedness of an affiliated bank premises corporation 
must Kp 
t, 
e taken into account only when the bank has a direct investment in 
8 U c h c°rporation. 
It was the view of the Legal Division, however, that such an 
internr 
yretation was contrary to the express language of section 24A and 
should 
n°t be adopted by the Board. The Division recommended an alter-
ative approach. 
J'.'.s 
In discussion of that recommendation, most recently at the meet-
°n May 24, 1967, differing views emerged as to the manner in which 

29B9 
7/24/67 
-12-
investments by holding company system banks should be treated. One 
view was that the holding company system should be considered a single 
entity, similar to a branch banking system. The other view was that 
limitations should be prescribed on investments both of individual mem-
ber banks in the system and of the system as a whole. The staff was 
instructed to review all aspects of the problem, and to explore with 
the Office of the Comptroller the possibility of negotiating agreement 
°n a uniform position. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated June 29, 1967, 
f r 
0111 the Legal Division indicating that it did not appear feasible to 
°ut a uniform interpretation. The memorandum also summarized and 
Rented u p o n t h e t w o approaches to the problem suggested by members 
Of 
e Board. The memorandum recommended that, for reasons stated, the 
Board -r Q S U e an interpretation under,which general approval would be 
granted fr» 
ror any investment or loan (as described in section 24A) by any 
State m k 
member bank, the majority of the stock of which was owned by a 
^'stered bank holding company, if the proposed investment or loan 
*°uld not. cause either (1) all such investments and loans by the member 
bank / 
gether with the indebtedness of any bank premises subsidiary 
t h e re 0n 
' c o exceed 100 per cent of the bank's capital stock, or (2) the 
*8gregate f 
or such investments and loans by all of the holding company's 
8Ubsidiar 
V banks (together with the indebtedness of any bank premises 
t e s thereof) to exceed 100 per cent of the aggregate capital 

2 9 W 
7/24/67 
-13-
stock of said banks. Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter 
to Marine Midland Corporation that would implement this recommendation. 
attached was a draft of ruling incorporating the Division's recom-
mendation for publication in the Federal Register and in the Federal 
Reserve Bulletin. 
Mr. Plotkin indicated that an attempt had been made, in formulat-
e s the proposed ruling, to avoid the appearance of direct conflict with 
t h e Comptroller's Office. He added that both of the approaches to the 
pr°blem discussed at the May 24 meeting appeared legally permissible. 
However, the entity approach would not result in the same degree of 
°Ver-all control as provided in the approach now recommended by the 
^e8al Division. There would be no limitation on the investments of 
dividual banks provided that the investments by all of the banks in 
e holding company system did not exceed the aggregate capital stock 
f all the banks in the system. 
Governor Mitchell stated that he favored the entity approach, 
A a Governor Daane. 
Mr. Hexter noted that the entity approach would allow a State 
^embe,. K 
°ank of a bank holding company system to invest far in excess of 
CaPital stock in bank premises without prior Board approval. 
National 
were prohibited, even under the Comptroller's interpretation, from 
8 investments in bank premises in excess of the amount of the bank's 
CaPital 
, 
stock without the approval of the Comptroller. 

2971 
7/24/67 
-14-
Mr. Hackley commented that since a branch banking system was a 
legal entity the resources of the entire bank would stand behind a 
branch's obligations. On the other hand, a holding company might have 
0nly a partial stock interest in subsidiary banks and therefore not have 
quite the same degree of interest in investments by its subsidiary banks. 
Host holding companies were reputable and financially responsible, and 
they would no doubt regard investments by their subsidiary banks in much 
I L 
e same manner as a bank would regard investments by its branches. But 
there could be instances where holding companies were not so responsible, 
and they would not have to be so concerned legally about investments by 
their subsidiary banks. 
Governor Maisel expressed support of the revised recommendation 
^ the Legal Division, remarking that such an approach would take care 
the part of the problem, relating to assignment of the total indebt-
°f an affiliated bank premises corporation, about which he had 
b e e n m°st concerned. 
f'V-, • " .' 
• 
Governor Brimmer said that he had leaned toward the entity 
PProach. However, it had become apparent from the Board's considera-
tion tod 
oaay of an application of a holding company to acquire control of 
bank, t-u, 
cnrough acquisition of a bare majority of the voting shares that 
a 8itu 
ation could exist where the holding company had a limited commit-
ment t 
o a bank in its system. Accordingly, he would support the Legal 
Divisin -
n 8 recommendation. 

! 
2972 
7/24/67 
-15-
Governor Sherrill stated that he, too, favored the Division's 
recommendation because the fact that a holding company system was not 
a single legal entity could permit manipulation that would not be pos-
sible in the case of a branch banking system. 
Approval was then given to the interpretation recommended by the 
^egal Division, Governors Mitchell and Daane dissenting. A copy of the 
letter subsequently transmitted to Marine Midland Corporation is attached 
a s Item No. 4. and a copy of the ruling in the form transmitted to the 
federal Register is attached as Item No. 5. 
Press release on bank credit card and check credit plans (Item 
^-JLl* 
Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting on July 20, 1967, 
there had been distributed a memorandum from Governor Brimmer dated 
21 submitting a revised draft of press release on bank credit card 
arid check credit plans. 
Governor Brimmer pointed out that the draft release now presented 
a s based solely on statistics collected in cooperation with the Federal 
^eP°sit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller of the Currency by 
i&eanQ 
or a special question in the April call report. He recalled that 
had earlier contemplated the release of a progress report on the cur-
Federal Reserve study of bank credit card plans. However, in light 
th 
G Points brought out in the discussion on July 20 he had concluded 
that 
of 
a statistical release based on the call report figures would suf-
f i c e at this time. 
-•tWjy;. • ; 
^ I' v | .. . . . 

2973 
7/24/67 
-16-
Governor Maisel suggested that the fact that the statistics 
were obtained through the joint efforts of the three Federal bank super-
visory agencies might be indicated more prominently in the press release, 
and at Governor Brimmer's request Mr. Fauver described how that sugges-
tion could be accommodated. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the issuance of a press 
Please in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
Revenue bond underwriting. Governor Robertson recalled that at 
the Board meeting on July 21 it was agreed that transcripts should be 
made of the meetings relating to revenue bond underwriting to be held 
°n Wednesday, July 26, and Tuesday, August 1, respectively, with repre-
Sentatives of the commercial banking and investment banking industries. 
Als °> preliminary consideration was given to the question whether the 
®°ard would permit representatives of each group to be present during 
the 
e Presentation of the other group, but a decision on that point was 
de^erred until all members of the Board could express themselves. Sub-
ecluently} he said, a suggestion had been made that the purpose of 
Ccluiring as much information as possible in this area would be served 
if a . 
transcript of each meeting was made available to each group, with 
c°mments invited. 
There was general agreement with this suggestion. 
Governor Brimmer noted that he had raised on July 21 the ques-
tl 
n whether representatives of State and local governments should be 
invito^ to appear before the Board. 

2974 
7/24/67 
-17-
During discussion of this point Governor Mitchell mentioned the 
names of organizations that might be contacted to determine whether an 
interest in meeting with the Board existed. Governor Maisel suggested 
that it might be well to wait until after the meetings with the commer-
cial and investment banker representatives had been held to decide 
whether additional meetings seemed advisable. He noted that the Board, 
if it so desired, could submit transcripts of the first two meetings to 
°ther parties, with an invitation to submit their comments. Governor 
Robertson remarked that all interested parties would have an opportunity 
to testify before the Congress when hearings were held. He would not 
°kject, however, to asking for comments on the transcripts of the forth-
coming meetings. 
Governor Mitchell observed that, as he understood it, Governor 
dimmer's point was that the Board might obtain a better impression of 
efficiency with which the marketing system operated if it heard 
fr 
111 those with experience in issuing securities. He suggested check-
with the Executive Director of the Municipal Finance Officers Asso-
Ciation. 
There was agreement with this suggestion, and it was understood 
*t if 
heard 
that if State and local finance officials appeared interested in being 
> a meeting would be arranged for the afternoon of Tuesday, August 1 
Secretary's Note: The Secretary informed 
the Board later that such an interest was 
not indicated by persons contacted. 

2975 
7/24/67 
-18-
All members of the staff except Mr. Sherman then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Leave of absence for Mr. Gemmill. Pursuant to the recommenda-
tion contained in a memorandum from the Director of the Division of 
International Finance dated July 18, 1967, Robert F. Gemmill, Chief of 
the Special Studies and Operations Section in that Division, was 
^Hthorized to apply to the Brookings Institution for the post of Fed-
eral Executive Fellow at the Center for Advanced Studies for one year 
^ginning approximately October 1, 1967, with the understanding that, 
if A 
accepted, he would be placed on detached duty status for the period 
Evolved. The Board also approved payment of the $500 fee required by 
Brookings Institution to cover partially the expenses of the fellow-
ship. 
Report on H.R. 8630 (Item No. 7). Chairman Martin noted that 
Chair 
rman Celler of the House Judiciary Committee had requested by tele-
Phone a letter in support of H.R. 8630, a bill to extend Public Law 
89 
^•75, which provides for exemptions from the antitrust laws to assist 
Safeguarding the balance of payments position of the United States. 
After discussion it was agreed unanimously that such a letter 
should K„ 
D e sent. Attached as Item No. 7 is a copy of the letter trans-
t t e d t o Chairman Celler under date of July 25, 1967. 
Secretary's Note: On July 28, 1967, the 
Bureau of the Budget requested the Board's 
views on enrolled bill S. 1648, "To extend 

297f 
7/24/67 
-19-
the authority for exemptions from the anti 
trust laws to assist in safeguarding the 
balance-of-payments position of the United 
States." Attached as Item No. 8 is a copy 
of the reply sent to the Budget Bureau. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Helene Babbitt as Librarian, Division of Research and Statistics 
wi-th basic annual salary at the rate of $9,001, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Patricia A. B. Connolly as Production Control Clerk (Trainee), 
of Data Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of 
>'56, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
the D ° r 0 t h y M* V e r e b> f r o m the position of Statistical Assistant in 
Division of Research and Statistics to the position of Accounting 
a 
nician i n t h e Office of the Controller, with an increase in basic 
nual salary from $5,859 to $6,263, effective August 13, 1967. 
o 
Haggie V. Parham, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
bas.lces> from a part-time position to a full-time position, with 
l c annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective July 30, 1967. 
On July 24, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
"^•^S^Dlrector of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
app^erto the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
9 
as a ^ ^ 8 
the appointment of Stanley W. Barnes 
sistant examiner. 

7/24/67 
- 2 0 -
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Letter to Grant County Bank, Sheridan, 
Arkansas, waiving the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
J, 
Wo. 
•tanr-v-vs-
2977 
Item No. 
10 
x, 
Ih&r.-/ 

2978 
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/24/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 24, 1967. 
Eliot J. Swan, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
w o Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
Francisco, California. 
94120 
^ 
Mr. Swan: 
a * 
I1.' • 
The Conference of Presidents at its meeting on June 19, 
on A' C o n s i d e r e d t h e report dated May 17, 1967, of the Subcommittee 
Accounting concerning the committee's study of member bank over-
and 
a t 
Reserve Banks. The Conference accepted the report 
t^at_aPPr°ved the recommendation of the Subcommittee on Accounting 
"as o f entries not be used to avoid reporting 
overdrafts and that after the process of post-
ing member banks' accounts has been completed, 
including the making of a judgment on which 
entries will be allowed to stand, any resulting 
overdrafts should be reported on Form 34. 
pr. . 
The Board of Governors concurs in the action of the 
esidents' Conference. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
t 
• 
,'.V 
-s 
.:'•(•'• 
. 
• 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2979 
BDARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 1 
7/24/67 
OFFICE OF THE 
CHAIRMAN 
July 24, 1967 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request for the views of the 
Board on H. R. 10595, a bill to prohibit Federally-insured banks 
and savings and loan associations from participating in the sale 
° r promotion of lottery tickets. 
As we understand the situation, two States (New Hampshire 
and New York) operate lotteries and have authorized the sale of 
lottery tickets by banks as well as other establishments. The Board 
Governors has no authority under present law to prohibit any 
hank from making such sales, under ordinary circumstances. A legal 
basis for preventive action by the Board would arise only where 
sPecial circumstances exist under which the sale would constitute 
an unsafe or unsound practice or otherwise violate Federal law 
administered by the Board. We are not aware of any such circum-
stances in connection with the New Hampshire or New York lotteries. 
Insofar as the Board's responsibilities for supervising 
State member banks are concerned, our objective is to foster the 
maintenance of each bank in sound and solvent condition and under 
8°od management, in order to protect depositors and to assure 
^interrupted provision of essential banking services. We believe 
his objective can be achieved equally well with or without enactment 
0 f H. R. 10595. 

r' 
i-. . 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
£ 9 8 0 
I 
. 
: 
. 
I lilf, : 
The Congress may, of course, conclude that lotteries 
are undesirable, and that Federal authority should be exercised 
to override State laws that permit banks to participate in the 
promotion of lotteries. But the Board believes that such a deci-
sion must rest on broad social or political grounds rather than 
°n banking considerations. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr, 
• ml 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
'v y}' I S,; [)• i-
i 
>1 I f • 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/24/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C O R R E S PD N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
July 24, 1967. 
fe 
T- B°y s e n> 
Pede 
President, 
ped^ral ^serve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kans 
Reserve Station, 
^ T ® 8 city, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear He. Boysen: 
c°ncerni 
refers to your letters of May 10 and June 29, 1967, 
® t h e proposed addition to the Omaha Branch building. 
' • 
- > V • 
„ , 
• 
enterine - T h e B o a r d w i l 1 interpose no objection to your Bank's 
PreParatilnt° a n a 8 r e e m e n t w i t h an architect to proceed with the 
the Pron10n ° f P r e l i m i n a r y plans and outline specifications for 
Understa°de 
C o n s t r u c t i o n referred to in your letters, with the 
de8t*abiii 
t h a t ' a S m e n t i o n e d i n your letter of June 29, the 
Plo*ed befty ° f i n c l u d i n 8 provision for a vault will be fully ex-
tore the preliminary plans are completed. 
X 'V.V-• *;- .•. . ...-•. ... . 
. , . 
Very truly yours, 
. ! f tfii 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

V^cov'.. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R B 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
7/24/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 26, 1967 
Sot 
• 
Mr» Baldwin Maull, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Marine Midland Corporation, 
241 Main Street, 
Buffalo, New York. 
14240 
De 
a r Mr. Maull: 
i! 
Reference is made to the application of Marine Midland 
Corporation ("Marine Midland") for a ruling by the Board of Governors, 
under section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371d), with 
Respect to proposed- investments in bank premises by subsidiary State 
member banks of Marine Midland. 
'•if 
. -'.. 
. 
. 
r . , 
- 
. 
• 
1 
f 
/: 
•< 
According to the application, Marine Midland owns substan-
al-ly all of the outstanding stock of its eleven subsidiary banks 
all of the stock of Marine Properties Corporation ("Properties"), 
operties was incorporated in 1961 to acquire and hold real and 
sonal property and lease the same to Marine Midland and its subsi-
aries. As of September 30, 1966, Properties owned a substantial 
^ 
the bank premises of the subsidiary banks and had aggregate 
ebtedness of approximately $33.7 million. No subsidiary bank owns 
th 
S e c u rities or indebtedness of Properties or has made any loans on 
G security of its stock. 
h o i . 
• 
• 
' l i v 
Section 24A provides as follows: 
"Hereafter no national bank, without the approval of the 
Comptroller of the Currency, and no State member bank, with-
out the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, shall (1) invest in bank premises, or in the 
stock, bonds, debentures, or other such obligations of any 
oorporation holding the premises of such bank or (2) make 
loans to or upon the security of the stock of any such cor-
poration, if the aggregate of all such investments and loans, 

Mr. Baldwin Mau11 
- 2 -
2 9 R 3 
together with the amount of any indebtedness incurred by 
any such corporation which is an affiliate of the bank, 
as defined in section 2 of the Banking Act of 1933, as 
amended, will exceed the amount of the capital stock of 
such bank." 
Since Properties is an affiliate holding bank premises within 
the meaning of section 24A, each of Marine Midland's State member banks, 
any part of whose bank premises is owned by Properties, must include the 
total indebtedness of Properties in determining whether a proposed invest-
ment in bank premises will result in an aggregate figure that will exceed 
the limits prescribed by section 24A, beyond which Board approval is 
Required. It appears that, because of the amount of such indebtedness, 
oard approval will be required for each additional investment. 
After consideration of the problems raised by your application, 
Board has granted general approval for any investment in bank pre-
sses or loan (as described in section 24A) by any State member bank, the 
maJority of the stock of which is owned by a registered bank holding 
^ompany, if the proposed investment or loan will not cause either (1) all 
s^ch investments and loans by the member bank (together with the indebt-
edness of any bank premises subsidiary thereof) to exceed 100 per cent 
lo 
k a nk' s capital stock, or (2) the aggregate of such investments and 
ans by all of the holding company's subsidiary banks (together with the 
ebtedness of any bank premises affiliates thereof) to exceed 100 per 
e n t of the aggregate capital stock of said banks. 
g 
In reaching this decision, the Board was aware that specific 
approval may still be required for certain investments in bank 
themiSGS p r o P o s e d t o b e m ade by Marine Midland's State member banks during 
sub C U r r e n t year. However, it is believed that the Board's action will 
stantially reduce the need for individual approvals. In addition, it 
ba 
® 0 a r d ' s policy to entertain annual applications by member State 
0£ 
s for approval of investments in bank premises, based on estimates 
Proposed expenditures during the ensuing year. 
. 
In view of the contrary statement in your application (111(a)), 
hol(}S-alS0 P°inted out that, in the Board's opinion, the value of lease-
in u i m p r o vements should be included in determining the amount invested 
nk Premises. 
The enclosed ruling will be published shortly in the Federal 
lster and Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Very truly yours, 
4 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
'""Hire 
^los, 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary 

Item No. 
1 
7/24/67 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. H] 
• 
.
, 
. 
.
.
. 
; 
. 
. 
' 
PART 208 - MEMBERSHIP OF STATE BANKING INSTITUTIONS 
IN THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Investments in Bank Premises 
5 208.121 Investment in bank premises by holding company banks. 
(a) The Board of Governors has been asked whether, in 
determining under section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
Id) how much may be invested in bank premises without prior Board 
aPproval, a State member bank, which is owned by a registered bank 
holding company, is required to include indebtedness of a corporation, 
wholly owned by the holding company, that is engaged in holding premises 
Wy4k i' 
banks in the holding company system. 
(b) Section 24A provides, in part, as follows: 
. ' '.V-tVCV-M •:> " - 1 
"Hereafter . . . no State member bank, without the 
approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, shall (1) invest in bank premises, or in the 
stock, bonds, debentures, or other such obligations of 
any corporation holding the premises of such bank or 
(2) 
make loans to or upon the security of the stock of any 
such corporation, if the aggregate of all such investments 
^nd loans, together with the amount of any indebtedness 
incurred by any such corporation which is an affiliate of 
the bank, as defined in section 2 of the Banking Act of 1933, 
" a s amended [12 U.S.C. 221a], will exceed the amount of the 
CaPital stock of such banks." 
(c) A corporation that is owned by a holding company is an 
affiliate of each of the holding company's majority-owned banks as 
term is defined in said section 2. Therefore, under the explicit 

Provisions of section 24A, each State member bank, any part of whose 
Premises is owned by such an affiliate, must include the affiliate's 
°tal indebtedness in determining whether a proposed premises invest-
ment by the bank would cause the aggregate figure to exceed the 
^ount of the bank's capital stock, so that the Board's prior approval 
w°uld be required. Where the affiliate holds the premises of a number 
the holding company's banks, the amount of the affiliate's indebted-
n e s s way be so large that Board approval is required for every proposed 
^vestment in bank premises by each majority-owned State member bank, 
t o which the entire indebtedness of the affiliate is required to be 
attributed. The Board believes that, in these circumstances, individual 
aPprovals are not essential to effectuate the purpose of section 24A, 
-utch is to safeguard the soundness and liquidity of member banks, and 
^ a t the protection sought by Congress can be achieved by a suitably 
Cir 
cuinscribed general approval. 
(d) Accordingly, the Board hereby grants general approval for 
^ 
investment or loan (as described in section 24A) by any State 
^mber bank, the majority of the stock of which is owned by a registered 
n k holding company, if the proposed investment or loan will not 
C»H 
8 e either (1) all such investments and loans by the member bank 
§ether with the indebtedness of any bank premises subsidiary thereof) 
t 0 e*ceed 100 per cent of the bank's capital stock, or (2) the aggregate 
f S u ch investments and loans by all of the holding company's subsidiary 

2986 
banks (together with the indebtedness of any bank premises affiliates 
thereof) to exceed 100 per cent of the aggregate capital stock of said 
banks. 
5$-8it• 
- 
... .. 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i). Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 221a 
a*d 37Id.) 
I 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 26th day of July, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

# 
' 
2 9 8 7 
Item No. 6 
7/24/67 
F°r immediate release. 
July 24, 1967. 
' -i In 
\ ^ 
' 
'.w....!",' V 
- 
' 
r. 
. ...r 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
released today a tabulation of the information on bank credit card and check-
^ d i t plans collected jointly by the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Reserve in the 
1967 Call Report for all insured commercial banks. 
At the end of April, 627 of these banks reported holding 
V 'i\. ''iVy i'C £ 1 \ 
m°re than $800 million under such plans. This is about one-fifth of an 
' •, '.„.$"• vv* 
> { •,, . • 
',-» • J 
. • 
est 4 
lmated total of $5 billion outstanding for all types of consumer credit 
C a r d Plans. 
The Board noted that this count included only those banks 
A n8 credit card receivables and did not include the several hundred 
; 
^ ^ • v . 
•, 
: • • . , 
*onal banks which are operating in various parts of the country as 
loc^i agents of their large city correspondent banks. 
Of the 627 banks reporting credit card or check-credit 
• * - t" 
; 1 • i 
% 
' ^72, or three-fifths of the total number, were national banks; 90 
State bank members of the Federal Reserve System, and 165 were insured 
er banks. While these banks were located in all sections of the 
c°vintrv tnere were relatively more involved in the East and West-Coast 
Statea t. 
tnan in most other parts of the country--except in the area near 
C
h
l ^
8
o 
T 
. 
in the Chicago Federal Reserve District, 138 banks reported 
Credit card operations; this was the largest number in any District, 
C ti n8 the recent increase in credit card activity in that area. 
In 
temis o f . 
dollar volume, however, the largest amount of such credit out-

3 ,/ m 
- 2 -
2988 
standing was reported in the San Francisco Federal Reserve District where 
> s-l 
several large branch banking systems are operating extensive credit card 
Plans. 
Most of the credit card and check-credit plans are now 
°Perated by medium-to-large size banks. Of the banks reporting such 
Plans in April, 228, or over one-third, had total deposits of more than 
$100 million and another 201 had deposits of between $25 and $100 million. 
-
dumber of the smaller banks, however, reported credit card or check-
credit 
I V • 
de 
operations; 85 had deposits of less than $10 million, and 27 had 
P°sits of less than $5 million. 
'C* • ••! 
on 
The above data were obtained from a special question in 
th 
e April Call Report of the three Federal bank supervisory agencies 
th 
Qe dollar volume of credit outstanding under these plans, to obtain a 
easure of this important and growing segment of bank consumer credit. The 
stati 
Gr 
stical information obtained will also be helpful to the special Task 
° U p ( s et up by the Federal Reserve System earlier this year) which is 
3tudv< 
y i n8 developments in bank credit cards and check-credit plans. 
The attached tables contain the results of the statistical 
tab 
'Ulatt ons. 
Atta<hment 

29R9 
<0 >> 
•rt 
u 
CO r-4 
T* 
t-i O u 
o 3 Ou 
bO o CO 10 
03 -J 0) a 
U 
C (0 
•rt • c c 
x. 4-1 •l-t 
o to X 
• 
• 
• 
• 
co 
O 

Distribution of Insured Commercial Banks 
Reporting Credit Card and Check-Credit Plans 
April 25, 1967 
By size of bank 
Amount of deposits 
(millions of dollars) 
Number of banks 
Under 5 
5 - 10 
10 - 25 
25 - 50 
50 - 100 
100 - 500 
500 - 1,000 
Over 1,000 
27 
58 
113 
103 
98 
159 
36 
33 
627 
By amount of credit outstanding 
Amount of credit 
-(thousands of dollars) 
Under 25 
*5 - 50 
50 - 100 
100 - 250 
250 - 500 
500 - 1,000 
1,000 - 
10,000 
Over 10,000 
Number of banks 
194 
50 
71 
87 
61 
65 
77 
22 
627 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 1 
7/24/67 
O F F I C E OF THE 
CHAIRMAN 
July 25, 1967. 
' MV 
Mi '4 i'1 
.e Emanual Celler, 
The Honorabl. 
Chairman, 
Committee on Judiciary, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
;V; vi •':: 
D e a r Mr. Chairman: 
•' 
.ffJFWMrra ill 
of Ja.y i, 
;v 
v. 
, 
, ... , : 
, 
act f 
1 a m w r i L i n S t o express my hope that the House will 
favorably this week on II. R. 8630, your bill to extend 
ant' 
L a W 8 9 - 1 7 5 ' which provides for exemptions from the 
ment-trUSt l a w S t 0 a s s i s t i n safeguarding the balance of pay-
n ts position of the United States. 
£ 
You wtlL 
recall that during the hearings preceding 
ever 
n t 
t h e legislation in 1965, it was made clear that 
r e s t
y e f f°rt would be made to guide the voluntary credit 
p r o b p i n t Program along lines that would raise no antitrust 
Was 
e m s ' , a n d t h at standby authority for antitrust exemptions 
a V c i r ^ 
0 n l y t o 8 u a r d against an eventuality we hoped to 
nec ' 
i n 
we have been successful; it has not been 
b e ^ S S a r y t o invoke the standby authority. But I continue to 
alterVe> a S 1 t e s t i t i e d i n 1965, that "we must be prepared to 
tav g C O u r s e if necessary without delay." Extension of Public 
ifnport"175 W O u l d P r o v i d e added flexibility in the critically 
a nt effort to improve our international payments position, 
! ' V 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
mi;-' 

'^TRESff.-' 
'M 
«.. I» 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• RPFTHE F 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 20551 
f • ' j r.. I . ;,„« s£ c. •' i i - v < / . :: "V 
Item No. 1 
7/24/67 
OFFICE OF THE C H A I R M A N 
July 28, 1967. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
^reau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
De*r Mr. Rommel: 
g^v'^icj^i A, 
; . ; 
; 
. 
- 
This is in reference to your communication of July 28, 
requesting the views of the Board on an enrolled bill "To 
Gnd the authority for exemptions from the antitrust laws to 
®^st in safeguarding the balance-of-payments position of the 
ba 
States". The exemption was enacted into law on a standby 
asis on September 9, 1965, and the enrolled bill would extend 
e termination date of the 1965 law to June 30, 1969. 
•''Chi 
- 
•jvj-i,-/ 
''v'^ii:/, 
en i 
®oarc* 
n 0 objection to the approval of the 
r°Hed bill by the President. 
;. • - 
i • • i 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

of GOv> •. 
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
7/24/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 25, 1967 
"C< 
V; * * Vf. 
Thomas R. Sullivan, Vice President, 
ederal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Uallas. T p v o c 
7 « ; 0 T ) 
as, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
o f
 
I n accordance with the request contained in your letter 
beh ^ 
2 0' 1 9 6 7' t h e D i r e c t o r o f t h e Division of Examinations, on 
the3 
t h e B o a r d o f Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the p P p o i n t T n e n t of Stanley W. Barnes as an assistant Examiner for 
of ^ e d e r a l Reserve Bank of Dallas. Please advise effective date 
t h e appointment. 
•H'c. 
is- . ... 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
>..0 
Mi* 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

J'' -J.: ,'•>' •• " • 
'J-66 
2994 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST. LOUIS 
P„ O, BOX 442 
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI ^3106 
Item No. 10 
7/24/67 
July 24, 1967 
Board of Directors 
Grant County Bank 
0, Box 67 
^cridnn, Arkansas 
72150 
Gentlemen: 
This will acknowledge a letter dated July 
siguod by President D. L. McCoy, J ^ , together with theVoc^pany-
inS resolution, signifying your/uitocrrion \ o withdraw froiii rceaiber-
ehip in the Federal Reserve SySteiVand Veqi]asting waiver of the 
'months' notice of such withdrawal./ 
We, of course, regret your dp/Jisioa. However, on behalf 
authority, this 
of withdrawal. 
fi 
203.10^) d£ the Board's Regulation 
*» your institution wdy accomplish termination of its membership at 
*ny time within (light tionths \rom\he date that notice of intention 
0 VUhdraw frora membership w a s ^ i v W . 
Upon surrender to this 
cderal Reserve Bank ofvthe Federal Reserve stock issued to your 
?stitution-»^such stock will be canceled and appropriate refund 
1 1 1 bc/taade thereon. 
\ 
/ 
/ 
Instructions in respect to effecting withdrawal*of the 
an«<\ frou membership are detailed in letter addressed to your 
,prc8ldent. 
\ 
\ 
Very truly yours, 
% 
0. 0. Wyricfe 
Vice President 
Q q t 
• Mr. Merritt Sherman, Secretary, Board of Governors, Washington, D. C 
