3/70) 
Minutes for 
.September 28, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

24 Pi 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 28, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Layton, Director of Equal Employment 
Opportunity 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Miss Key, and Mr. Wilbanks of the 
Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
i/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2 4 P 2 
9/28/71 
-2-
Export credit reporting under VFCR. In a memorandum dated 
September 27, 1971, Governor Brimmer requested the Board's reactions and 
concurrence regarding a request he proposed to make to banks and nonbank 
financial institutions to report, as of September 30, 1971, their holdings 
of export credits subject to Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint ceilings. 
The Board had until November 15, 1971, to give effect to the recently 
enacted statutory requirement to exempt export credits from the VFCR 
Program. Initiating the reporting request in advance of initiating 
the exemption would (a) test whether or not the definition of "export 
credits" proposed to be used was understandable; (b) elicit reactions 
that would indicate whether the Congressional intent was substantially 
or fully met; and (c) help to formulate adjustments in general ceilings 
if that should prove necessary. Attached to the memorandum were drafts 
of a letter Governor Brimmer proposed to send to the Federal Reserve 
Banks and of questionnaires for reporting by banks and by nonbank 
financial institutions. 
The Board expressed no objection to the procedures proposed. 
Proposed amendments to margin regulations. In July 1971 the 
Board published proposed amendments to Regulations G, T, and U in 
regard to credit for the purpose of providing capital to broker/dealers. 
If adopted by the Board, the amendments were to become effective 
October 1, 1971, and comments were to be submitted by August 20. In a 
memorandum dated September 27, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 

24p3 
9/28/71 
-3-
recommended that the proposed effective date be postponed until 
December 1, 1971, in order to allow additional time for considering the 
extensive comments received or expected to be received. A draft notice 
was attached. 
The recommended postponement was approved unanimously. A copy 
of the notice sent to the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 1. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia on September 16 and 23; by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Minneapolis on September 16; by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and San Francisco on September 17; 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on September 21; and by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas 
City,and Dallas on September 23, 1971, of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Morgan Guaranty 
International Banking Corporation, New York, New York, (copy attached 
as Item No. 2), suspending the limitations on liabilities of one borrower 
and aggregate liabilities contained in the Board's consent to the 
corporation's investment in Banca Morgan Vonwiller S.p.A., Milan, Italy. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Wells Fargo Bank 
National 
Association, San Francisco, California, (copy attached as 
Item No. 3). authorizing the establishment of a branch in Tokyo, Japan. 

2 4.P.& 
9/28/71 
-4-
The Board approved unanimously a report, for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of The Farmers 
Bank, Shreve, Ohio, by the Wayne County National Bank of Wooster, Wooster, 
Ohio. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed purchase of The Farmers 
Bank, Shreve, Ohio, by The Wayne County National Bank of 
Wooster would eliminate a notable amount of existing 
competition. The overall competitive effect of the 
transaction would be adverse. 
" (• t:: r -a . ' , <- . 
,j ; . ; , 
The Board approved unanimously a report, for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger of The Farmers and Merchants Bank Co., Smithville, Ohio, 
: i . y ; 
i 
. 
. ., r - 
, 
• 
;••. 
into First National Bank of Orrville-Dalton, Orrville, Ohio. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger would eliminate competition 
presently existing between The Farmers and Merchants 
Bank Co., Smithville, and First National Bank of 
Orrville-Dalton, Orrville, and would increase concen-
tration in the Wooster banking market, an area where 
the four largest banks presently hold about 73 per 
cent of total deposits. Overall, the effect of the 
proposal on competition would be adverse. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by United Carolina 
Bancshares Corporation, Whiteville, North Carolina, to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to Cape Fear Bank & Trust Company, Fayetteville, 
North Carolina, and authorized 
the issuance of an order (copy attached 
as Item No. 4) reflecting that decision. 

2 4 9 5 
9/28/71 
-5-
The Board approved unanimously an application by Mid America 
Bancorporation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota, to acquire shares of Mid 
America State Bank, Mendota Heights, Minnesota, a proposed new bank, 
a n d authorized the issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 5) 
reflecting that decision. Incident to this action, the Board also 
unanimously approved the application of Mid America State Bank for 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent 
to the bank is attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Silco. A memorandum dated September 22, 1971, from the Legal 
Division presented the request of Silco, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a 
registered one-bank holding company that wished to remain a bank holding 
company and at a later time to divest its nonbank subsidiaries, for 
approval of its acquisition of common stock of Planned Marketing 
Association, Inc. (PMA), stated to be for the purpose of efficiently 
Marketing assets subject to divestiture, and (2) acquisition by PMA of 
shares of each of two nonbank companies. Under Regulation Y, Bank 
Holding Companies, a company that has not filed an irrevocable declaration 
°f intent to cease being a bank holding company may not acquire shares 
subsidiaries except with prior approval by the Board, which normally 
will be granted only for acquisitions necessary to enable the company 
Wore efficiently to market its assets subject to divestiture. 

24.9C 
•vyv 
9/28/71 
-6-
The Legal Division recommended that the application be approved, 
but that Silco be informed that such action does not constitute (1) 
approval of the proposal as an effective divestiture of nonbank interests; 
nor (2) a finding that such transfers are necessary or appropriate to 
effectuate section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act; nor (3) any 
judgment that the described transactions are likely to be entitled to 
tax relief under proposed amendments to the Internal Revenue Code. The 
Division suggested also that Silco be informed that, so long as control 
over nonbank shares had not been effectively divested, the acquisitions 
. 
r i- I •• 
by PMA of present nonbank subsidiaries might preclude Board approval of 
acquisition of bank shares by Silco. A draft letter to counsel for 
Silco was attached to the Division's memorandum. 
Governor Brimmer expressed an adverse view of the proposal. It 
seemed clear to him that the acquisition of shares of PMA would not 
K*f •}• •• 
; 
< 
. 
• , 
; 
J ' • 
' 
- 
...'.,..,'• V .... t 
-
meet the conditions for divestiture of nonbanking interests, and that 
Silco 
would continue control of those interests. It was his under-
standing that if the Board was confronted with a holding company arrange-
ment that it considered anticompetitive, it could require divestiture 
Sooner than the 10-year limit specified in the law. In his view, 
acceptance of the understandings listed by the Legal Division should 
Precede approval. 
The letter was approved, Governor Brimmer abstaining. A copy 
jil 
ti , . . . , 
; 
..,. 
, ^ -
the letter is attached as Item No. 7. 
f 
HA 
*s 
f 
C 

2 4 9 1 
9/28/71 
- 7 -
Reduced reserves. At its meeting on August 11, 1970, the 
Board granted Old National Bank of Washington, Spokane, Washington, 
permission to maintain reduced reserves for a period of one year from 
the date of its merger with North West Bank, Seattle, Washington. The 
merger was consummated September 28, 1970. Old National Bank had now 
made application to the Board for an extension of the permission. 
In a memorandum dated September 27, 1971, the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended that the Board defer its 
final decision on this request until it had acted on the current 
proposal for implementation of a graduated system of reserve require-
ments, within the limits of present law, that the Reserve Bank be 
notified of this intention, but that, in order to avoid apprising the 
member bank of the proposal under study, a letter be sent to the bank 
authorizing continuance of its present authority, subject to revocation 
(by the Board. Draft letters were attached. 
Discussion included suggestions that the reduced reserves 
Privilege be continued informally, or that it be indicated that the 
Privilege was being extended temporarily or until further notice. 
However, in recognition of the bank's need to make plans, a preference 
developed for specifying an extension for six months. 
Unanimous approval was then given to letters to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco and to Old National Bank of Washington 
in the form attached as Items 8 and 9. 
rl 
i 
M 
A 
r ffi 

2 4 9 8 
9/28/71 
-8-
Grand Banks Corporation. The Grand Banks Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, had applied for approval of action to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of shares of Bank of North Lake, North 
Lake, Wisconsin. In a memorandum dated September 22, 1971, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial on grounds that if the 
application were approved the applicant would have outstanding debt 
amounting to approximately 71 per cent of its equity, and that servicing 
and liquidating this debt in the manner proposed would place a heavy 
strain on the bank's future earnings and seriously limit the holding 
company's ability to provide capital for the bank. The recommendations 
of the Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
were also adverse. 
During discussion the staff indicated that this was the second 
Proposal the applicant had presented. The first had involved a substan-
tially greater debt, but had been revised when the staff indicated that 
it would not recommend approval to the Board. It was expected that if 
the present application was denied, a new application would be filed with 
a better financial plan. Other comments brought out that a recent 
Edition of capital had little bearing upon the negative aspects of the 
Proposal. 
The application was denied, Governors Daane and Maisel dissent-
ing. It was understood that an order and statement reflecting this 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, and that a 

2 4 9 9 
9/28/71 
-9-
dissenting statement or statements would also be prepared. 
Security Corporation. In a memorandum dated September 13, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of Security Corporation, Duncan, Oklahoma, to become 
a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of The Security 
National Bank & Trust Co. of Duncan. In order to acquire the bank, 
the applicant would incur debt equal initially to 183 per cent of equity, 
but proposed to reduce that ratio to less than 60 per cent within one 
A 
year through sale of additional stock. Funds for the purchase would 
come in part from a $3.5 million loan from The First National Bank and 
Trust Company of Oklahoma City at an interest rate of 3 per cent for the 
first year. The applicant indicated that the preferential interest rate 
the loan reflected a close relationship, in which First National had 
been the Duncan bank's principal correspondent for over twenty years 
(the Duncan bank at present maintained about 90 per cent of its correspon-
dent balances at First National), and that First National performed 
A 
"Virtually all of the services required by the Duncan bank, including 
assumption of all excess credit lines originated. 
* - . - 
i 
During discussion questions were raised regarding equal treat-
si 
ment of shareholders; whether 3 per cent loans were usual in Oklahoma; 
and whether First National Bank made such loans to any other borrower. 
was suggested that the relationship between the Duncan bank and 
pirst National Bank of Oklahoma City would meet all of the recently-adopted 
I 

2500 
9/28/71 
-10-
guidelines for presumption of control, and therefore it would seem 
appropriate that the application originate with First National as a 
formalization of a relationship tantamount to ownership. 
At the conclusion of the discussion action was deferred pending 
exploration by the staff of the questions that had been raised. 
Huntington Bancshares. In a memorandum dated September 17, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, to 
acquire shares of The Portage National Bank, Kent, Ohio. The recommen-
dations of the Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland also were for approval. 
Governor Robertson observed that the adverse report of the 
Department of Justice on the competitive factors involved had been based 
°n a market comprising Portage County, whereas the Board's staff had 
used the Akron market, comprising Portage and Summit Counties and a 
Portion of Medina County. He believed there was little weight for 
approval in the banking factors, and inquired whether, if the application 
was approved, the staff could present in the explanation of that action 
a rationale for judging the case in the context of the larger market. 
The staff replied in the affirmative and mentioned circumstances that 
had pointed to the use of the Akron market. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement reflecting this decision would be 
Prepared for the Board's consideration. 

9/28/71 
-11-
Security New York Corporation. In a memorandum dated September 2 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of Security New York State Corporation, Rochester, New 
York, to acquire shares of First Bank and Trust Company of Corning, 
Corning, New York. 
During discussion some members of the Board expressed the view 
that the competitive effect of the proposed transaction would be adverse, 
while others believed it would be only slightly adverse. However, there 
was general agreement that the competitive aspect was outweighed by the 
banking factors, and that this offset should be made clear in the 
explanation of the Board's decision. 
The application was approved unanimously, and issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision was authorized. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 10. 
Affiliated Bankshares. In a memorandum dated September 17, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of Affiliated Bankshares of Colorado, Inc., Boulder, 
Colorado, to acquire shares of University National Bank of Fort Collins, 
F°rt Collins, Colorado. 
During discussion questions were raised regarding the premium 
being paid for the Fort Collins bank, which had been experiencing 
financial difficulties resulting from inadequate administration; the 
fact that the principal officers of the applicant did not devote their 

2502 
9/28/71 
-12-
full time to those posts; the present degree of concentration in the 
applicant's subsidiaries of banking resources in the Fort Collins area; 
and the bearing upon the development of the Fort Collins market area of 
litigation instituted by the Department of Justice regarding a bank 
holding company acquisition in Greeley, Colorado. 
Action was deferred pending exploration by the staff of the 
questions raised. 
Chairman Burns and Mr. Holland, Executive Director, then entered 
the room. 
Central and State National Corporation. In a memorandum dated 
August 27, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation presented 
staff analyses of the application of Central and State National Corpora-
tion of Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of State National Bank of Alabama, Decatur, 
Alabama, and Central Bank and Trust Company, Birmingham. The Division 
recommended denial, whereas the recommendations of the Banking Markets 
Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta were favorable. The 
Legal Division believed that either approval or denial would be legally 
supportable. The Department of Justice had appraised the competitive 
effect of the proposal as adverse. 
An oral presentation had been afforded the applicant, which had 
keen held on May 13, 1971. Additional information was later requested 
by the Board's staff to resolve the question whether Central Bank and 

2503 
9/28/71 
-13-
Trust Company exercised control or had a significant voice in the 
management of banks in north Alabama counties in which State National 
Bank operated branches. Review of that information led to the conclusion 
that there was no evidence to indicate that the bank was using the bank 
stock loan device to control banks. 
After discussion, the application was approved, Governors 
Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer dissenting. It was understood that an 
order and statement reflecting this decision would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration, and that a dissenting statement also would be 
prepared. 
Minbanc Capital Corporation. On September 7, 1971, the Board 
»md 
I rji.t- f', . : ,v. * '>.-' • • 
t • 
r a. 
^ " I;.*: i 
' 
approved a letter to the American Bankers Association regarding purchase 
by State member banks of shares of Minbanc Capital Corporation, a closed-
end investment company formed at the instance of the ABA to provide 
capital to minority-owned banks. The Association had now requested 
IHvfjlon 
at 
f ipcs',<j i o p 
j u k ! Segu.U?:lcn pi:t^et>t<ui 
t 
reconsideration of the following language in the Board's letter: 
"However, in view of the high risk attendant to Minbanc's 
securities, the Board expressed doubt whether Minbanc's shares 
can be considered to be a bankable asset. In the Board's view, 
it would appear to be prudent banking practice for a State 
member bank to write off the amount of its investment in 
Minbanc stock at the time made. Further, the Board indicated 
that Federal Reserve examiners would require such write-off 
if the amount invested exceeds 2 per cent of the bank's capital 
and surplus." 
The Association stated that this language ran directly counter to a 
fundamental precept on which Minbanc was being created, i.e., that capital 

2504 
9/28/71 
-14-
assistance to minority banks should constitute a businesslike investment 
(admittedly high risk) and not charity. The Association believed that 
retention of this language would seriously jeopardize Minbanc's chances 
for success; removal of the investment feature would effectively preclude 
a substantial percentage of active participation. 
In a memorandum dated September 27, 1971, the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation proposed a rephrasing of the paragraph in 
question. The Association had indicated informally that the revision 
would be satisfactory. 
The revised language was approved, Governor Robertson abstaining 
because he had opposed the original action on legal grounds. Attached 
under Item No. 11 are copies of a letter transmitting to the Association 
the revised version of the earlier letter and of the letter informing the 
Federal Reserve Banks of the revision. 
Proposed margin regulation. In a memorandum dated September 27, 
1971. the Division of Supervision and Regulation presented a suggested 
revision of amendments to margin regulations G, T, and U that had been 
published for comment earlier this year. The amendments would implement 
Title III of the Foreign Bank Secrecy Act, which for the first time made 
margin regulations applicable directly to borrowers. It was proposed 
to combine these regulatory provisions applicable to borrowers in a 
separate regulation, to be designated Regulation X, and to be republished 
for comment. 

2505 
9/28/71 
-15-
Governor Robertson expressed an adverse view both with respect 
to republication for comment and to certain points of substance, and 
other members of the Board mentioned aspects of the proposals regarding 
which additional documentation would be helpful. Action on the matter 
was therefore deferred. 
Equal Opportunity Program. Mr. Layton, Director of Equal 
Employment Opportunity, had submitted a report for the first half of 
1971 pursuant to the affirmative action plan approved by the Board in 
December 1970. 
After summary comments by Mr. Layton, discussion included 
references to programs being conducted by other Government agencies 
that might offer fruitful avenues for pursuit under the Board's affir-
mative action plan. 
The report was accepted, with an expression of gratification 
on the part of the Board at its usefulness. A copy of the report has 
been placed in the Board's files. 
All staff members except Messrs. Holland and Smith then withdrew 
and Messrs. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration, 
Kakalec, Controller, and Halley, Deputy Controller, joined the meeting, 
along with other officers having responsibilities connected with the 
discussions described in the following paragraphs. 
Governor Sherrill presented a proposed approach for bringing 
the Board's employment into line with the President's policy to reduce 

25C6 
9/28/71 
-16-
Federal employment by 5 per cent during fiscal year 1972. After discus-
sion, it was concluded that Governor Sherrill should have further conver-
sations with the Office of Management and Budget to assure that the 
approach proposed for the Board would be consistent with that adopted 
by other Federal departments and agencies. 
It was decided that the letter to the Federal Reserve Banks 
containing guidelines to be followed in establishing June 30, 1972, 
employment ceilings in response to the President's 5 per cent personnel 
reduction program be held until the Board had decided on the procedure 
« 
'j 
to be applied in determining the ceilings for its own staff. 
Discussion then turned to the problem of types of expenditures 
by the Board and the Federal Reserve Banks cited by Representative Patman 
in his comments in connection with the Chairman's appearance yesterday 
before the Subcommittee on Domestic Finance of the House Banking and 
Currency Committee. It was agreed that a check would be made of the 
expenditures listed by Mr. Patman after which appropriate action would 
be considered. 
Governor Mitchell reported that the Interagency Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation had considered the question of the 
desirability of treating savings and loan associations as a permissible 
activity for bank holding companies and that a meeting of the Board should 
be set up with members of the Home Loan Bank Board, the FDIC, and the 

9/28/71 
-17-
Comptroller of the Currency to discuss this matter. No definite time 
for such a meeting was agreed upon. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2508 
Item No. 1 
9/28/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(12 CFR PARTS 207, 220, and 221) 
(Regs. G, T, and U) 
SECURITIES CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, OR DEALERS 
CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR CARRYING MARGIN STOCK 
Notice to postpone effective date of 
proposed amendments in regard to Credit 
to Contribute Capital to Brokers and 
Pea ler s • 
1. Pursuant to the authority contained in the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78^), the Board of Governors, on 
July 9 1 1971 (3G Federal Register 13218), published revisions to its 
Proposals to amend Parts 207, 220, and 221, 
(Regulations G, T, and U). 
2. Tn view of the extent and number of comments 
deceived from interested members of the public, the Board hereby announces 
it will postpone the originally proposed effective date of October 1, 
to December 1, 1971, in order to permit further consideration of 
views, suggestions, and comments received. 
3. In view of the postponement of the effective date to 
Scomber 1, 1971, the proposed changes to Regulations G? T, and U will 
aPply to credit extended by banks, broker/dealers, and persons subject 
t o Regulation G after December 1, 1971, and to renewals after such date 
o f credit extended by banks after April 16, 1971, except in the case of 
° r e cUt extended by banks directly to broker/dealers where the restrictions 

^mmmmmmmmmmmmmm^mmm—mmmmmmmmmmm 
• 
2509 
- 2 -
would apply to such credit extended after December 1, 1971, and to 
renewals after that date of such credit extended after July 9, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 28, 1.971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

B O A R D CJF C D V E R N D R B 
„ 
0 
Item No. 2 
9/28/71 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
205M 
i; \ f \\ 
• \ ' I i ! 
'£.<'•/• 
' 
A D O N E S B 
D T F I C I A L 
C H K R C S P D IJ D E N C l: 
V l 
' " 
" " ' • 
T O 
T H E 
t i r J A K O 
September 29, 1971 
.^oVV.oi 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Co ?.*porat i.on 
23 Wall Street 
Now York, New York 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of: July 2, 1971, the Board 
of Governors amends its letter of December 16, 1966, granting con-
sent for your Corporation to acquire control of Banca Morgan 
Vonwiller ("Banca"), Milan, Italy, by substituLing the following 
for subparagraph (a) of the third paragraph of that letter: 
"Subject t;o continuing observation and review 
the Board suspends, until further notice, the provisions 
of subparagraph (1) of the immediately preceding para-
graph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
set forth in Section 211.9(b) and (c) oi: Regulation K." 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2511 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
Item No. 3 
Df' 
9/28/71 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
iiilili 
W A S H ) N G T O N , 
D . 
C, 
20551 
\ I I I ' I \/xJ- 
' 
A D D R E S S 
n F F I L I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C ! 
'
'
' 
t u the; 
b o a r d 
September 29, 1971 
Wells Fargo Bank National Association 
464 California Street-
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors grants its permission to Wells 
Fargo Bank National Association, San Francisco, California, pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to es-
tablish a branch in Tokyo, Japan, and to operate and maintain such 
branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before October 1, 1972, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Tokyo. 
With respect to the establishment.of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on 
the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum 
reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
States. 

2512 
Wells Fargo Bank 
National Association 
-2-* 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they 
apply to your bank and its subsidiaries, and that full consideration 
is being given to the priorities for U.S. export financing and for 
meeting the credit needs of developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smi tli 
Secretary 

2513 
Item No. 4 
9/28/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
UNITED CAROLINA BANCSHARES CORPORATION, 
Whiteville, North Carolina, 
for approval of acquisition of 100 per 
cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by 
merger to Cape Fear Bank & Trust Company, 
Fayetteville, North Carolina. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Carolina Bancshares 
Corporation, Whiteville, North Carolina, a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 
per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
of the successor by merger to Cape Fear Bank & Trust Company, 
Fayetteville, North Carolina ("Bank"). The bank into which 
Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means of acquiring 
L
all of the shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of 
the shares of the successor organization is treated herein as the 
Proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 

2514 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board give 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
of Banks of the State of North Carolina and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on August 3, 1971 (36 Federal Register 14285), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of 
the application was forwarded to the United States Department of 
Justice for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views 
has expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light 
of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. Upon such consideration the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in 
North Carolina, controls two banks with deposits of $169.9 million, 
representing approximately 2.3 per cent of total commercial bank 
deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 
1970, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board through August 31, 1971.) The acquisition of 

2515 
-3-
Bank ($10.9 million deposits), would increase Applicant's control of 
deposits in the State only insignificantly, and its present ranking 
among banking organizations in the State would remain unchanged. 
Bank, with three offices, is the smallest of six banks 
operating in the Fayetteville-Clinton market, which is approximated 
by Cumberland County and the northern two thirds of Sampson County, 
and holds 4.3 per cent of market deposits. The five competing banks 
in the market are branches of banking institutions which are larger 
than Applicant and rank among the State's seven largest banking 
organizations. One of Applicant's subsidiary banks has an office 
in Robeson County, 22 miles south of Bank's main office, and neither 
it nor Applicant's other subsidiary bank competes with Bank to any 
significant extent. It further appears that the proposed acquisition 
would not foreclose significant potential competition; a large number 
of existing banking institutions in the area and a low population-to-
bank ratio mitigate against Applicant's entry into the Fayetteville-
Clinton market through the establishment of a new bank. It does not 
appear, therefore, that significant competition would be eliminated, 
nor significant potential competition foreclosed by consummation of 
Applicant's proposal, nor that there would be adverse effects on any 
other bank. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are regarded as satisfactory and 
consistent with approval of the application. The major banking needs 

2516 
-4-
of the communities involved are presently being met by the existing 
institutions; however, as a result of its affiliation with Applicant, 
Bank would be able to offer expanded and improved services, including 
mortgage financing, auditing, business development, and trust and 
data processing services. These considerations relating to convenience 
and needs lend some xveight in support of approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that said 
application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized above, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 28, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daanc, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
[SEAL] 

2511 
Item No. 5 
9/28/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
MID AMERICA BANCORPORATION, INC., 
' 
St. Paul, Minnesota. 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 90 per cent ' 
or more of the voting shares of Mid America ' 
State Bank of Mendota Heights, Mendota 
' 
Heights, Minnesota, a proposed new bank. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Mid America Bancorporation, Inc., 
St. Paul, Minnesota, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of 90 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Mid America State Bank of Mendota Heights, Mendota Heights, 
Minnesota ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Minnesota Commissioner of 
Banks and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
indicated that he would not object to this application. 

251S 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 3, 1971 (36 Federal Register 14284), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
it 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
JjEl 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and 
finds that: 
t 
Applicant controls four banks with aggregate deposits of 
approximately $35 million, representing .4 per cent of the total com-
mercial bank deposits in the State, and is the fifth largest bank holding 
company groip in Minnesota, (All banking data are as cf Pecenber 31, 
1970, and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
through August 31, 1971•) Since Bank is a proposed new bank, no ex-
isting competition would be eliminated by consummation of the proposal 
herein, 
nor would concentration be increased in any relevant area. 
Bank will be located in a growing residential area six miles 
south of St. Paul. Bank's proposed site is adjacent to the first 
if.-''; 
shopping complex in the Mendota Heights area. Applicant's closest 
subsidiary to Bank is located 5.7 miles northwest of Bank but is 

2519 
-3-
separated from Bank by competing banks and the Mississippi River. 
Applicant's existing Egan Township subsidiary is 7.2 miles southwest 
of Bank, and derives less than 5 per cent of its business from the 
projected service area of Bank. The overlap apparently is due to the 
fact that no banks are located in the projected service area of Bank 
and that the Egan Township subsidiary is the bank closest to the 
southern portion of said area. 
Consummation of the proposal would not give Applicant a 
dominant position in the relevant market which is defined as the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul banking market. That market is one of the most concen-
trated in the country with 105 banks including six holding company 
groups which hold, in the aggregate, close to 74 per cent of deposits, 
with Applicant controlling the smallest percentage of deposits (.7 per 
cent). It appears that acquisition of Bank would enable Applicant to 
compete more effectively with the larger organizations in the relevant 
market. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
affect competition in any relevant area. The financial condition, 
management, and prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are 
regarded as generally satisfactory. Bank has no operating financial 
history. Its proposed capitalization is considered satisfactory, and 
Bank will be able to draw on Applicant for management. Bank will 
receive from Applicant technical and managerial resources, and aid in 

raising capital as needed. Bank's prospects appear favorable. The 
banking factors are consistent with approval. Bank's proposed loca-
tion is in a service area where there are no banks and where residents 
and businesses generally do their banking by commuting out of the 
service area. The proposed bank would provide services more conveni-
ent 
to area customers, and should also stimulate business activity 
in the community. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served lend some weight toward approval 
of the application. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the record, that said 
application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized 
above, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order; 
and provided further that (c) Mid America State Bank of Mendota 
Heights, Mendota Heights, Minnesota9 shall be opened for business not 
later than six months after the date of this Order0 Each of the 
periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 28, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
O C O M 
Item No. 6 
9/28/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D I ! R E S I ' O N D E N I . F : 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 28, 1971 
Organization Committee 
Mid America State Bank 
Mendota Heights, Minnesota 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application made on behalf of Mid America State 
Bank, Mendota Heights, Minnesota, for stock in the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis, effective if and when the bank opens for 
business under appropriate State authorization, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the corporate pov;ers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other cor-
porate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $150,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$350j000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

BOARD • r GOVERNDHG D (•" THC FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
O C Of!) 
Mid America State Bank 
-2-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
board of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization 
to commence business. The board of directors should also adopt, at 
the same time, a resolution ratifying the action which has been taken 
in the bank's behalf in making application for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. A certified copy of each resolution, together 
with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 3 months from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that ail of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the 
Reserve Bank pleasant:. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will 
be glad to assist you in establishing your relationships with the 
Federal Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives 
of your bank means for making the services of the System most useful 
to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Enclosure 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No! Y 
9/28/11 
252 
• ' o f g o w - V 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E f i S 
U F F i l ' I A L 
C O R H E S P R N O C 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
September 28, 1971 
Christie S\ Flanagan, Esq. 
Jenkens, Spradley & Gilchrist 
Suite 2280 
First National Bank Building 
Dallas, Texas 
75202 
Dear Mr. Flanagan: 
By your letter of September 11, 1971, you have requested on 
behalf of your client, Silco, Inc. ("Silco"), pursuant to § 4(c) (12) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act ("the Act") and § 222.4(d) of Federal 
Reserve Regulation Y, approval by the Board for Silco to organize 
Planned Marketing Associates, Inc. ("PMA"), as a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary; for Silco to transfer to PMA 100 per cent of the shares of 
Kenneth Murchison & Company, Inc. ("KM"), 100 per cent of the shares 
of TIPS General Agency, Inc. ("Tips"), and approximately 46 per cent 
of the outstanding shares of Lone Star Life Insurance Company ("Lone 
Star"), in exchange for 1,131,000 shares of PMA stock; and approval 
of the acquisition by PMA from Messrs. Charles B. Wilkinson and 
Chris Shenkel of 100 per cent of the shares of Employee Communica-
tions, Inc. ("ECI") , in exchange for the issuance by PMA of 1.7,500 
shares of its stock; and for PMA to purchase the remaining shares 
of Lone Star stock in exchange for shares of PMA stock, for which 
purpose up to 850,000 shares of PMA stock would be issued. It is 
our understanding that Silco proposes to transfer substantially 
all of the 1,131,000 shares of PMA stock to Silco stockholders 
and that such distribution would be made prior to the offer to 
Lone Star stockholders (other than Silco), Your letter further 
states that executive officers of PMA are to be Mr. Charles B. 
Wilkinson, Mr. David A. Keener, and Mr. J. Bryan Sutherlin, and 
that Mr. Sutherlin is Executive Vice President, Secretary and a 
Director of Silco; and that three other proposed directors of PMA 
are currently directors and/or officers of Silco. You also request 
that the Board certify that the distribution of PMA stock to Silco 
stockholders is necessary or appropriate to effectuate § 4 of the 
Bank Holding Company Act. 

2521 
Christie S. Flanagan, Esq. 
-2-
On the basis of the facts presented in your letter, the 
Board has concluded that an acquisition of PMA shares by Silco, a 
transfer to PMA of Silco's nonbank shares, and a distribution of PMA 
shares to Silco stockholders, to the extent that they constitute a 
step toward divestiture of nonbank interests, warrant Board approval 
under § 4(c) (12) of the Act; and such approval has been granted by 
the Board. As you know, consummation of the proposed transaction 
would not enable Silco to obtain tax benefits provided in §§ 1101-
1103 of the Internal Revenue Code. 
You are advised that consummation of the proposal you 
describe will not effectively divest, from Silco, control of the 
shares proposed to be transferred to PMA. Your attention is 
directed to § 2(g)(3) of the Act which provides that: 
" . . . shares transferred after January 1, 1966, by any 
bank holding company directly or indirectly to any trans-
feree that . . . has one or more officers, directors 
. . . in common with or subject to control by the trans-
feror, shall be deemed to be indirectly owned or con-
trolled by the transferor unless the Board . . 
On the basis of § 2(g)(3) and the fact that PMA and Silco are to 
have officers and directors in common, Silco would be presumed to 
continue to control the transferred shares. The existence of such 
a presumption in itself would preclude the Board from certifying 
that the distribution of PMA stock to Silco stockholders is neces-
sary or appropriate to effectuate § 4 of the Act. 
Your attention is directed also to the fact that, so 
long as Silco has not made an effective divestment of its nonbank 
shares, the acquisition by PMA of shares of ECI and Lone Star 
presents an obstacle to Board approval should Silco seek to acquire 
shares of an additional bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R B 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20U51 
252. 
Item No. 8 
9/28/71 
/ 1 D D R C 5 S 
O F F I C I A L CaRRESPDNDF.NUE 
T O 
T H E 
( J Q A R D 
September 28, 1971 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings 
Senior Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Mr, Jennings: 
Reference is made to your September 16, 1971, letter 
transmitting the request of Old National Bank of Washington, 
Spokane, for permission to continue maintaining its reserves on 
the basis required of banks having no offices in a reserve city. 
It is noted that your Bank recommends approval of this request. 
A proposal is being prepared for Board consideration, 
which, if approved, may affect reserve requirements of member 
banks. 
In contemplation of developing some system to relieve the 
general reserves situation, the Board has decided to postpone a 
thorough consideration of the reserves classification of Old 
National Bank of Washington until it has completed its investiga-
tion of the current proposal. In the meantime, the Board is con-
tinuing for a period of six months the permission previously 
granted to the member bank. You will note that the enclosed 
letter of authority addressed to the applicant makes no mention 
of the proposed study. 
v c 
'.y 
in: , 
We shall appreciate your forwarding the letter addressed 
to the applicant bank, which informs it that it may continue on 
a country-bank basis for an additional six-month period. A copy 
is included for your records. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Enclosures 

2526 
B O A R D 
( I F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 9 
9/28/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D D A R D 
September 28, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Old National Bank of Washington 
Spokane, Washington 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Board of Governors, 
acting under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, grants permission to the Old National Bank of Washington 
to continue to maintain its reserves on the basis required of 
banks not having offices in a reserve city for a period of six 
months. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Illinipi 
252? 
Item No. 10 
9/28/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
liii' 
m 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SECURITY NEW YORK STATE CORPORATION, 
Rochester, New York, 
for approval of acquisition of 100 per 
cent of the voting shares of First Bank 
and Trust Company of Corning, Corning, 
New York. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1042(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Security New York State Cor-
poration ("Applicant"), Rochester, New York, for the Board's prior 
approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
of First Bank and Trust Company of Corning ("First Corning"), 
Corning, New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the New York 
a 
tJiT' 
ist 

Superintendent of Banks and requested his views and recommendation. 
The New York State Banking Board approved an application involving 
the present proposal in accordance with the recommendation of the 
New York State Superintendent of Banks and advised the Board of its 
action. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 24, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12057), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the nineteenth largest banking organization 
and sixth largest multi-bank holding company in New York State, has 
six subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $478 
million, representing .5 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
in the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, unless 
otherwise noted, and reflect all holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved by the Board through July 31, 1971.) 

2529 
-3-
Applicant's principal subsidiary operates an 6ktensive 
branch network throughout the State's Eighth Banking District and 
is the third largest of 31 banks located in that District, controlling 
16.6 per cent of that area's deposits. Consummation of this proposal, 
involving acquisition of the seventh largest bank in the District, would 
increase Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in that District 
to approximately 18 per cent. 
First Corning (deposits of $28.6 million, constituting 11 
per cent of commercial bank deposits in the market) is the fourth 
largest of nine banks located in the Corning-Elmira area which 
approximates the relevant banking market. 
jsiijii 
Applicant's subsidiary located closest to First Corning 
is approximately 20 miles northwest of Corning in the Village of 
Bath and is considered to operate in an adjacent market. Although 
there does not appear to be a significant amount of existing com-
petition between Applicant's Bath subsidiary and First Corning, some 
potential competition may be foreclosed by consummation of this 
proposal. It is likely that some increased competition between 
Applicant's Bath subsidiary and First Corning may develop in the 
future absent consummation of this proposal. In addition, the 
proposal would eliminate First Corning as a vehicle for entry by a 
new competitor not now represented in the Eighth Banking District. 
While Applicant could enter the Corning-Elmira market by establishing 

-4-
2530 
a de novo branch or by acquisition of a smaller bank, the present 
stagnant condition of the area's economy and the large number of 
banking offices already in the area makes these possibilities remote. 
Acquisition of First Corning by Applicant will result in the removal 
of home office protection in Corning and thereby liberalize the branching 
possibilities in that city. 
Affiliation with Applicant will enable First Corning to 
compete more aggressively with the larger banks in the market and 
permit it to more adequately respond to the financial needs of the 
larger business firms in the area. 
Although the members of the Board in varying degrees view 
the transaction as having an adverse effect on competition, there 
is unanimous agreement that the anticompetitive effects are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. Consideration of the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of Applicant and First Corning lends further 
weight to approval. Specifically, First Corning has experienced 
recent financial and managerial difficulties, and Applicant pro-
Ml 
poses and appears able to undertake specific measures (including 
significant strengthening of First Coming's capital accounts) to 
Hi !
improve First Coming's present financial condition and to continue 
to improve operating procedures. Applicant has been providing some 
fa 
managerial assistance to First Corning, and plans to continue to draw 

on its managerial resources to provide the additional assistance 
necessary to improve First Coming's present condition. Affiliation 
with Applicant appears to offer the additional prospect that expanded 
and improved banking services, such as a more varied loan policy, 
will be provided to customers and First Coming's operations will 
be strengthened by special services provided by Applicant, 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that 
said application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized 
above, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 28, 1971, 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Oaane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill, 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns, • 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
[SEAL] 

253', 
iMmT 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 11 
9/28/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
R O A R D 
September 29, 1971 
Mr. Peter F. McNeish, Director 
Urban Affairs Committee 
American Bankers Association 
1120 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 20036 
Dear Mr. McNeish: 
In response to your request of September 17, 1971, 
the Board has reconsidered and modified the language of the 
last paragraph of its letter of September 7, 1971, to you 
regarding the purchase of shares of stock of Minbanc Capital 
Corporation by State member banks. The attached letter 
containing the modification supersedes the letter of 
September 7, 1971. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Attachment 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
253 
'U 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
a d d r e s s 
n r n n i A L c n r r e s c q n de n t e 
September 
2 9 , 
1971 
MrP Peter F« McNeish, Director 
Urban Affairs Committee 
American Bankers Association 
1120 Connecticut Avenue, No W„ 
Washington, D, Co 
20036 
Dear Mr0 McNeish: 
This is in response to your request for a ruling from the 
Board of Governors on the question whether State member banks may 
purchase the shares of Minbanc Capital Corporation, a closed-end in-
vestment company which has been formed by the American Bankers 
Association for the purpose of providing capital to minority-owned 
banks which do not have ready access to the usual sources of capital 
fundso 
You indicate that the plan to organise Minbanc was developed 
by the Urban Affairs Committee of the ABA as part of ABA's attempt to 
provide an industry-sponsored, privately financed program of assis-
tance to minority-owned banks„ 
The Executive Committee of the ABA's 
Urban Affairs Committee will constitute an advisory board to Minbanc 
and the chief administrative officer of Minbanc will, be a staff member 
of the ABAo 
Minbancfs officers, directors and the members of its 
advisory board will serve without compensation,, 
The stock of Minbanc is to be offered only to ABA member 
banks or, where State-chartered banks are not permitted to make such 
investment, to their parent holding companies.. The shares will not. 
be freely transferable but will be subject to an assignable right of 
first refusal in Minbanc before they may be disposed of for value. 
It: is not contemplated that the right of first refusal will be exer-
cised, except to prevent a transfer to a person other than a bank or 
a parent bank holding companya 
Furthermore, it is proposed that: 
Minbanc's shares will be sold to as many ABA member banks as possible; 
no stockholder will be permitted to hold more than 5 per cent of the 
outstanding shares of Minbanc. It further appears that a bank s 
investment in Minbanc shares will be nominal in relation to its 
capital and surplusc 

2531 
Mr. Peter F. McNeish 
-2-
It is expected that Minbanc will invest its capital funds 
in nonvoting securities of minority-owned banks, although its invest-
ments may take other forms. The primary criteria to be followed in 
making investment decisions will be (i) the extent to which eligible 
minority-owned banks are unable to avail themselves of traditional 
forms of capital; (ii) the operating handicaps resulting from lack of 
sufficient capital; and (iii) the bank's ability to put such capital 
funds to prompt and productive use; safety and profit on investments 
will only be secondary considerations0 
Accordingly, although there 
may be some income from the ownership of Minbanc shares, it would 
appear purchasers of such shares will be motivated principally by a 
civic, rather than an investment purpose,. 
As you are aware, section 5136 of the Revised Statutes 
(12 U.S0Cc section 24) which is made applicable to State member banks 
by the 20th paragraph of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U0S.C„ 
section 335), provides "Except as hereinafter provided or otherwise 
permitted by law, nothing herein contained shall authorize the purchase 
by the Association for its own account of any shares of stock of any 
corporation". After a comprehensive review of the legislative history 
of that provision, the Board has concluded that the purchase by State 
member banks of Minbanc stock is not within the legislative purpose 
to which it was directed. Accordingly, the Board is of the view that 
State member banks may purchase shares of Minbanc stock, to the extent 
permitted by State law. 
However, in view of the special nature of Minbanc1s securities, 
the Board indicated that examiners for the Federal Reserve Banks would 
require State member banks to write-off any amount invested in Minbanc1s 
securities in excess of 2 per cent of the investing bank's capital stock 
and surplus. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

•CDvJi 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
S-2174 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 5, 1971 
The Board has reconsidered and modified its letter of September 7, 
1971, to the Urban Affairs Committee of the American Bankers Association 
with respect to the purchase of stock of Hinbanc Capital Corporation by 
State member banks. Quoted below is the text of the Board's letter to the 
ABA of September 29, 1971, containing the modification. The Board's letter 
of September 10, 1971 (S-2172) on the matter is hereby superseded, 
"This is in response to your request for a ruling frcm the 
Board of Governors on the question whether State member banks 
nay purchase the shares of Minbanc Capital Corporation, a closed-
end investment company which has been formed by the American 
Bankers Association for the purpose of providing capital to 
minority-owned banks which do not have ready access to the usual 
sources of capital funds. 
"You indicate that the plan to organize Hinbanc was developed 
by the Urban Affairs Committee of the ABA as part of ABA's attempt 
to provide an industry-sponsored, privately financed program of 
assistance to minority-owned banks. The Executive Committee of 
the ABA's Urban Affairs Committee will constitute an advisory 
board to Hinbanc and the chief administrative officer of Minbanc 
will be a staff member of the ABA. Minbanc1s officers, directors 
and the members of its advisory board will serve without compensa-
tion. 
"The stock of Minbanc is to be offered only to ABA member 
banks or, where State-chartered banks are not permitted to make 
such investment, to their parent holding companies. The shares 
will not be freely transferable but will be subject to an 
assignable right of first refusal in Minbanc before they may 
be disposed of for value. It is not contemplated that the 
right of first refusal will be exercised, except to prevent a 
transfer to a person other than a bank or a parent bank holding 
company. Furthermore, it is proposed that Minbanc's shares 
will be sold to as many ABA member banks as possible; no stock-
holder will be permitted to hold more than 5 per cent of the 
outstanding shares of Minbanc. It further appears that a 
bank's investment in Minbanc shares will be nominal in relation 
to its capital and surplus. 

r 
2 5 3 0 
- 2 -
"It is expected that llinbanc will invest its capital funds 
in nonvoting securities of minority-owned banks, although its 
investments may take other forms. The primary criteria to be 
followed in making investment decisions will be (i) the extent 
to which eligible minority-owned banks are unable to avail 
themselves of traditional forms o* capital; (ii) the operating 
handicaps? resulting from lack of sufficient capital; and (iii) 
the bank*s ability to put such capital funds to prompt and 
productive use; safety and profit on investments will only be 
secondary considerations. Accordingly, although there may 
be some income from the ownership of llinbanc shares, it would 
appear purchasers of such shares will be motivated principally 
by a civic, rather than an investment purpose. 
"As you are aware, section 5136 of the Revised Statutes 
(12 U.S.C. section 24) which is made applicable to State member 
banks by the 20th paragraph of Section 9 of the Federal Reserve 
Act (12 IT.S.C. section 335), provides "Except as hereinafter 
provided or otherwise permitted by law, nothing herein contained 
shall authorize the purchase by the Association for its own 
account of any shares of stock of any corporation1.'. After a 
comprehensive review of the legislative history of that provision, 
the Boarri has concluded that the purchase by State member banks 
of llinbanc stock is not within the legislative purpose to which 
it was directed. Accordingly, the Board is of the view that 
State member banks may purchase shares of llinbanc stock, to the 
extent permitted by State law. 
"However, in view of the special nature of llinbanc's 
securities, the Board indicated that examiners for the Federal 
Reserve Hanks would require State member banks to write-off 
any amount invested in liinbanc's securities in excess of 2 
per cent of the investing.bank's capital stock and surplus." 
Very truly yours, 
J Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND TtlZ VIC2 PRESIDENTS 
IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 
