Minutes for October 25, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, October 25, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, "Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard, Miss Eaton, and Mrs. Winkler of 
the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Axilrod, Williams, Wernick, Eckert, 
Keir, Shull, Baker, Beck, Burns, Ettin, 
and Fry of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Ghiardi, Wood, Bradshaw, 
Bryant, Gemmill, Pizer, and Stem of the 
Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Today's review included reports by Mr. 
Keir on the current Treasury financing and the Government securities 
market generally, by Mr. Eckert on recent and prospective developments 
in the area of bank credit, by Mr. Ettin on the corporate and municipal 
bond markets, and by Mr. Bradshaw on the foreign exchange and gold 

3777 
10/25/68 
-2-
markets. Copies of the several charts and tables distributed for the 
purpose of today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill and 
Sammons then withdrew, as did Mr. Broida, Mr. Bernard, and Miss Eaton, 
and the following entered: 
Mr. 0'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Ducy, Economist, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of Boston and Atlanta on October 21, by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on October 23, and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas on October 24, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of People's Bank of Enola, Enola, Pennsylvania, into Cumberland County 
National Bank and Trust Company, New Cumberland, Pennsylvania, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller, the conclu-
sion reading as follows: 
The proposed merger of People's Bank of Enola into 
Cumberland County National Bank and Trust Company, New 
Cumberland, would eliminate competition betwefen them and 
further enhance Cumberland Bank's position in that portion 

10/25/68 
-3-
of Cumberland County immediately across the Susquehanna 
River from Harrisburg. The overall competitive effect 
of the merger would be adverse. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
