MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst 
October 24, 1972 

2378 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 24, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Fina nee 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
V 
Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2 9 7 9 
1 0 / 2 4 / 7 2 
- 2 -
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San 
Francisco on October 19, 1972, of the rates on discounts and advances 
l n their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
°n October 5, 1972, of the application of U.N. Bancshares, Inc., 
Springfield, Missouri, to acquire shares of Pulaski County Bank, 
Richland, Missouri. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
°n October 10, 1972, of the applications of Valley Falls Insurance, 
lnc., Valley Falls, Kansas, (1) to become a bank holding company through 
retention of its present controlling interest and acquisition of addi-
tional shares of Kendall State Bank, also of Valley Falls, and (2) for 
Permission to continue to engage in general insurance activities. A 
c°Py of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
Tennessee National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, to acquire shares 
the successor by merger to First Bank and Trust Co., Dyersburg, 
^ennessee, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
^ copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United Carolina 
^ancshares Corporation, Whiteville, North Carolina, to acquire shares of 

2380 
1 0 / 2 4 / 7 2 
- 3 -
Capitol National Bank, Raleigh, North Carolina, a proposed new bank, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Robles, Inc., 
Oberlin, Kansas, (1) to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of additional shares of State Bank of Herndon, Herndon, 
Kansas, and (2) for permission to continue to engage in general 
insurance activities. The Board also authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Fidelity 
International Bank, New York, New York, for suspension of the limitations 
°n liabilities of one borrower and aggregate liabilities for its subsid-
iary, Banque Europeenne de Financement, Paris, France. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 6. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
October 19, 1972, the Board unanimously approved the sending of letters 
ruling that certain General Services Administration participation 
certificates and certain Department of Health, Education, and Welfare 
guaranty contracts are eligible as collateral for advances to member 
banks and for underwriting and investment by State member banks. Copies 
°f the letters are attached as Items 7 and 8. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 

ZS81 
1 0 / 2 4 / 7 2 
- 4 -
Regulations D and J. On June 20, 1972, the Board approved 
amendments to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation J, 
Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks. The 
amendments to Regulation J were to have become effective September 21, 
1972; the amendments to Regulation D were to have become effective in 
several stages beginning on September 21. The amendments would require 
all banks served by the Federal Reserve check collection system to 
Pay for checks in immediately available funds the same day the checks 
were presented for payment by the Federal Reserve and would apply the 
same reserve requirements to member banks of like size, regardless of 
the bank's location. The effective date of the amendments to Regula-
tion J had been delayed by the issuance of a temporary restraining 
order by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on a 
Petition filed by the Independent Bankers Association of America and 
the Western Independent Bankers. The Board had also delayed implemen-
tation of the amendments to Regulation D. 
On October 19, 1972, the U.S. District Court for the District 
°f Columbia denied a motion for a preliminary injunction on the ground 
that the plaintiffs had failed to carry the burden of establishing 
that they would be irreparably injured if the amendments to Regulation J 
were put into effect and that they would be likely to succeed on the 
merits of the case after full trial. This decision was consistent 

2982 
1 0 / 2 4 / 7 2 
- 5 -
with the decision rendered on October 10, 1972, by the U.S. District 
Court for the Central District of California in an action brought by 
a group of California banks seeking to enjoin full implementation of 
the amendments to Regulation J. 
A memorandum from the Task Force on Regulations D and J dated 
October 20, 1972, noted that the Board could now set a new effective 
date for implementation of the amendments and recommended that they 
be implemented promptly. Suggested dates were November 2 or November 9, 
1972. Either date would be feasible from the standpoint of open 
market operations. 
It was suggested that it might be desirable to implement the 
amendments after the November 7 general election, and it also was noted 
that some of the Reserve Banks would prefer November 9 as the effective 
date. 
The Board thereupon approved the implementation of the amend-
ments to Regulations D and J, effective November 9, 1972. Copies of 
the press release announcing this action and of the notice published 
in the Federal Register are attached under Item No. 9. (Note: Gover-
nor Daane was not present for the discussion; however, later in the 
Meeting he indicated agreement with the decision.) 
United Virginia Bank. The Board approved, Governor Brimmer 
dissenting, the application of United Virginia Bank, Richmond, Virginia, 

2983 
1 0 / 2 4 / 7 2 
- 6 -
for permission to establish a branch in George Town, Grand Cayman, 
Cayman Islands, British West Indies. A copy of the letter sent to the 
applicant is attached as Item No. 10. 
Governor Daane entered the meeting at this point. 
Grandfather activities. There had been distributed memoranda 
regarding the continuation of permanent grandfather activities of the 
following bank holding companies: The Western and Southern Life 
Insurance Company, Cincinnati, Ohio; Estate of James Millikin, Deceased, 
Decatur, Illinois; Delta Loan & Finance Company, St. Louis, Missouri; 
The Sealy and Smith Foundation for the John Sealy Hospital, Galveston, 
Texas; and The Zachary Taylor Life Insurance Company, Shreveport, 
Louisiana. In a memorandum dated October 19, 1972, the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section recommended 
continuation of the permanent grandfather activities of the holding 
companies. 
At today's meeting it was noted that Western and Southern Life 
Insurance Company held under 10-year grandfather authority Eagle Savings 
Association, Cincinnati, Ohio. Authority to retain Eagle Savings 
Association beyond December 31, 1980, would depend on whether the 
°Peration of a savings and loan association had been added to the list 
permissible activities under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act and on financial and competitive factors. Reservations 

2984 
1 0 / 2 4 / 7 2 
- 7 -
were expressed about the retention of Eagle Savings Association as 
a subsidiary, and questions were raised about the possibility of 
requiring divestiture. 
There followed a general discussion during which several ques-
tions were raised as to the procedure by which the Board could require 
divestiture of grandfather activities and with respect to future 
expansion into nonbanking activities of companies with grandfather 
rights. Several members indicated that before reviewing the grandfather 
activities of specific holding companies they would like to have 
additional information on the questions raised at today's meeting. 
Action was deferred, with the understanding that additional 
documentation would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Request from Civil Service Commission. Mr. Holland referred 
to a request that had been received from the Civil Service Commission, 
°n behalf of the Senate Committee on Post Office and Civil Service, for 
information regarding positions excepted from Civil Service rules and 
regulations under law. He described the nature of the response the 
staff expected to make. Although the provision of the information did 
not require formal action, he wanted the Board to be informed of the 
Matter. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2S85 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m 
No. 
1 
1 0 / 2 4 / 7 2 
U«N# BANCSHARES, INC, 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
U.N. Bancshares, Inc., Springfield, Missouri, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f o r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
(a) (3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Pulaski County Bank, Richland, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
r e d persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
e*Pired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
teceived in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
I842(c)). . 
Applicant, the twelfth largest banking organization and eleventh 
*argest bank holding company in the State, controls two banks with 
a8gtegate deposits of $113.6 million, representing 0.9 per cent of the 
total commercial bank deposits in Missouri. (All banking data are as of 
Member 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect bank holding company formations 
cjn j 
Acquisitions approved by the Board through September 30, 1972.) 
Co 
Summation of the proposal herein would increase Applicant's share of 
Cotntnercial bank deposits in the State by only .05 per cent and would not 
the State. 
in a significant increase in the concentration of banking resources 
in 

- 2 -
2388 
Bank ($6.7 million in deposits) is the second largest of three 
banks in the Richland banking market with control of approximately 
3 7 per cent of area deposits. There is no significant existing compe-
tition between any of Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank, nor is 
t^ere a reasonable probability of competition developing in the future 
in view of the distances between Bank and Applicant's banking subsidi-
s e s (the closest banking subsidiary is located about 80 miles from 
Richland), the low population per banking office (considerably below 
^e Statewide average), and Missouri's restrictive branching laws. It 
appears, therefore, that consummation of the proposal herein would not 
Ukely have any adverse effects on existing or potential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant and its subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory and consistent 
Wlth approval. The financial resources of Bank are satisfactory; its 
^utute prospects are favorable; and its management is regarded as 
8enerally satisfactory. Considerations relating to convenience and needs 
lend weight toward approval of the application as affiliation with 
ApPUcant would allow Bank to introduce more specialized services into 
Market, and better enable Bank to meet the anticipated increasing 
^ands for real estate and commercial loans as the area develops. It is 
th 
e Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
in the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
th 
6 Reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

- 3 
2987 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective October 24, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
T*T~ 
. 
•j/ Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and 
^eehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson 
Bucher. 

2388 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o . 
2 
1 0 / 2 4 / 7 2 
VALLEY FALLS INSURANCE, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Retention of Insurance Agency 
Valley Falls Insurance, Inc., Valley Falls, Kansas, has 
aPplied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through retention 
o f 51 per cent of the voting shares of Kendall State Bank, Valley 
P a U s , Kansas ("Bank"), and the acquisition of an additional 37 per 
Cer*t of the voting shares of said Bank. 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's 
aPProval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and 
® 225.4(b)(2) of Regulation Y to continue to engage in certain per-
missible insurance agency activities through the retention of Valley 
Palls Insurance, Inc., Valley Falls, Kansas ("Agency"). 
Notice of receipt of these applications was published in the 
Pederal Register on May 2, 1972 (37 Federal Register 8915), and the 
ti 
016 for filing comments and views has expired. The Board has con-
idered the applications and all comments received in light of the 
*Qctors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act, and the considerations specified 
5 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant was organized in January 1971 and on February 1, 
l97i 
acquired a majority of the shares of Bank without the prior 
^ o v a i of the Board. Applicant commenced its insurance agency 
*Ctivity de novo shortly thereafter. On June 22, 1971, the Board, in 
e r to avoid the imposition of unnecessary hardships, issued an 

2S83 
- 2 -
Order which provided that any company which acquired a bank between 
December 31, 1970, and that date, without securing prior Board approval 
because the company lacked knowledge of the Bank Holding Company Act 
Amendments of 1970, might file an application to retain the Bank and, 
thus, cure its violation of the Act. In this connection, however, the 
B°nrd provided that the standards to be applied to applications to re-
tain shares would be the same as those normally applied to applications 
prior approval. Applicant apparently acted without knowledge of the 
and the application has been considered on that basis. 
Bank ($6.7 million in deposits as of December 31, 1971) is the 
°nly bank in Valley Falls, a rural community of about 1200. Agency con-
d u c t s a general insurance business from the premises of Bank. Since the 
transaction involves only a change from individual to corporate owner-
consummation of the proposal will have no adverse effects on 
listing 
or potential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
applicant, Bank and Agency are consistent with approval. It is noted that 
satisfactory condition was reached only after it came under Appli-
Car*'s control. Additionally, the Board regards the offer to be made to 
^ority shareholders as being substantially equivalent to the price paid 
fn 
r the shares of majority shareholders. Although Applicant will incur 
C°nsiderable debt in acquiring Bank, its income from Bank and Agency will 
Pt°vide sufficient revenue to adequately service the debt. Furthermore, 
^PUcant' s acquisition of Bank will assure continued operation of the only 

bank in Valley Falls. Accordingly, considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served, with respect to 
the acquisition of Bank, lend weight toward approval. It is the 
Board's judgment that consummation of the transaction would be in the 
Public interest and that the application to acquire Bank should be 
aPProved. 
Agency was commenced de novo and is one of three insurance 
aSencies in Valley Falls. The operation by a bank holding company of 
a general insurance agency in a community with a population of less 
th 
a n 5,000 is an activity that the Board has previously determined to 
b e closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)(iii))» 
There is no evidence in the record indicating consummation 
of the proposal would result in any undue concentration of resources, 
nfair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices 
othftr adverse effects on the public interest. On the basis of the 
Oregoing and other facts reflected in the record, the Board has 
6termined that the considerations affecting the competitive factors 
section 3(c) of the Act and the balance of the public interest 
ct°ts the Board must consider under section 4(c)(8) in permitting a 
holdin 
company to engage in an activity on the basis that it is 
Sely related to banking both favor approval of the Applicant's 
Pt0Posai. 
Accordingly, the applications are approved for the reasons 
tt)Qri2ed above. The acquisition of Bank shall not be consummated 

Z i i S l 
- 4 -
( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
^is Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. The determination as to Agency's activities is subject to 
t h e Board's authority to require reports by, and make examinations of, 
holding companies and their subsidiaries and to require such modifica-
tion or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of 
if Q 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
Qnd orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ effective October 24, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Sit y° t i n 8 f o r t h i s action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
a n d * 1 1 ' s h e e h a n » a n d Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane 
a Brimmer, 

2932 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item 
N o . 
3 
1 0 / 2 4 / 7 2 
FIRST TENNESSEE NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Tennessee National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, 
a baak holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act» ha3 applied for the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares of 
successor by merger to First Bank and Trust Co., Dyersburg, 
XGnnessee ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no 
si8nificance except as a means to acquire all the shares of Bank. 
Ac 
cordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor 
0i:Sanization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of shares 
of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
r e d persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accor-
n c e with 5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views 
1)98 expired, and the Board has considered the application and all 
c°mmenta received in light of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is the largest banking organization in Tennessee, 
Strolling five banks with aggregate deposits of $1.0 billion, repres-
s i n g 11.6 per cent of total banking deposits in the State of 
ten 
^csee. 
(Banking data are as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to 
ect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
Bo 
a t d through September 30, 1972.) The acquisition of Bank ($17.4 

2^33 
- 2 -
million deposits) would increase Applicant's share of State deposits 
b y °*20 percentage points and would not result in a significant in-
c a s e in the concentration of banking resources in the State. 
Bank, located in Dyersburg, Tennessee, is one of four banks 
having offices in a market area which includes all of Dyer County. It 
h°lds 24,4 per cent of total market deposits as the second largest 
banfc; whereas the largest bank controls 58.9 per cent, and the third 
an<1 fourth largest hold 11,0 and 5.8 per cent, respectively. It appears 
•.t 
a t consummation of the proposal would have no adverse effect on any 
Coi»Peting bank. 
Applicant's nearest subsidiary banking office is located in 
a SGparate market area, approjdmately 70 miles from Dyersburg. There 
ig n o meaningful present competition between any of Applicant's offices 
Bank, in view of the distances involved and restrictions placed on 
Aching by Tennessee laws, there appears to be little likelihood for 
the development of any significant amount of future competition between 
th 
e s e institutions. 
The Department of Justice has commented that, in Its view, 
thG _ 
Proposed acquisition is likely to have an adverse effect on 
P°tGntial competition. The Department expressed the opinion that the 
s b u r S area is potentially attractive for de novo entry by Applicant 
S G of the "population growth" and "attractive economic outlook" 
that area and emphasized the presence of two significantly smaller 
ba^f 
in Dyer County, either of which might possibly serve as a vehicle 

Z331 
- 3 -
such entry \7ith les3 serious competitive consequences than the 
Proposed acquisition. It also voiced concern about possible increases 
i n Statewide concentration of banking resources in Tennessee which it 
anticipates may result from continuing expansion by that State !s large 
multi-bank organizations through the acquisition of banks with signif-
icant or leading positions in local markets. 
It appears to the Board that the market served by Bank would 
n°t be particularly attractive for de novo entry by Applicant or for 
its acquisition of a foothold bank. Population per banking organization 
is 7,607 in Dyer County, as compared with a Statewide average of 13,125. 
Moreover, while the town of Dyersburg has experienced satisfactory 
P°Pulation growth, reflecting a shift of population from the rural 
ar°as of the County to the town as a result of the increasing industrial-
Nation of this predominantly agricultural area, the population growth 
0 f °yer County as a whole (only 3 per cent in the decade of the 1960fs) 
lagged behind that of the State (10 per cent during the same period). 
In the Board's judgment, size or locational disadvantages pre-
lude the two smallest banks in Dyer County from having comparable 
f a c t i o n to Applicant as vehicles for entry into that market. Both such 
banks have their head offices in outlying villages, and although the 
of the two banks also has two branches in Dyersburg, it has 
total deposits of only $7.9 million. 
The Board has concluded that competitive considerations are 
°n3lstcnt with approval of the application. 

2335 
- 4 -
In view of Applicant's plans to improve the capital position 
one of its subsidiary banks, it appears that Applicant, its group of 
banks, and Bank are in generally satisfactory financial condition; their 
^nagements are capable, and prospects for each appear favorable. Bank-
in8 factors are consistent with approval of the application. Although 
thn 
major banking needs of Dyer County residents are being served at the 
Present time, the proposed affiliation would extend the range of services 
Presently offered by Bank, especially in the areas of trust, investment 
^nagement, and automated customer services, would place Back in a 
befcter position to compete for larger commercial accounts, and should 
Gnable Bank to compete more effectively with its substantially larger 
competitor, First Citizens National Bank of Dyersburg. Considerations 
bating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
cite consistent with and lend some support to approval of the application. 
It i 
ls the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
v°uld be in the public interest and that the application should be approved, 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
*°asons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
<-ore the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
G r or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 

5 -
ZS3 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective October 24, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Y7-—-
i' 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
dimmer, Sheehan, Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson 
atl<* Daane. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item 
No. 
4 
1 0 / 2 4 / 7 2 
UNITED CAROLINA BANCSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Carolina Bancshares Corporation, Whiteville, North 
Carolina, a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
Act (12 u.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 49 per cent of the voting shares of 
GaPitol National Bank, Raleigh, North Carolina ("Bank"), a proposed new 
bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
r e d persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
W i t h § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
exPired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(c)). 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of approxi-
lately $222 million, representing 2.7 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State, and is the ninth largest banking organization 
in North Carolina. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, unless 
°therwise noted, adjusted to reflect bank holding company formations 
a n d acquisitions approved by the Board through September 30, 1972.) Since 
a 
a proposed new bank, no existing competition would be eliminated 
consummation of the proposal nor would concentration be increased in 
n y relevant area. The proposed site of Bank is in the heart of down-
°Wtl Raleigh, the capital of North Carolina, and a rapidly growing 

2338 
-22-
urban area. The relevant banking market is Wake County and Bank would 
compete in this market with 13 banks, including five of the six largest 
banks in North Carolina, which control approximately 91 per cent of the 
total commercial bank deposits in the market (as of June 30, 1970), 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
subsidiary banks are deemed satisfactory in view of Applicant's com-
mitment to provide additional capital for its two largest subsidiary 
banks, and projected growth and earnings for the group appear favor-
able. Bank, as a proposed new bank, has no financial or operating 
history; however, its prospects under Applicant's group are consistent 
V;ith approval of the application. It appears that the major banking 
needs of the area are being adequately served at the present time. 
However, Bank would provide an additional source of convenient 
banking services to the area. Considerations under convenience and 
necds aspects of the proposal are consistent with approval. It is 
Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
vould be in the public interest and that the application should be 
aPproved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
ttle reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
tlliG Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and 

2333 
-3-
( c) Capitol National Bank, Raleigh, North Carolina, shall be opened for 
business not later than six months after the effective date of this 
0rder. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective October 24, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
dimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Robertson and Daane. 

3000 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
ROBLES, INC. 
10/24/72 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company and 
Retention of Insurance Agency Activities 
Robles, Inc., Oberlin, Kansas, has applied for the Board's 
approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)($) 0f formation of a bank holding company through acquisition of 
an additional 58.6 per cent of the voting shares of State Bank of 
Herndon, Herndon, Kansas ("Bank"). Applicant at present owns 24 per cent 
of the voting shares of Bank. 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's approval, 
under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y 
t o retain its insurance agency, Herndon Insurance Agency, Herndon, Kansas 
^ Agency"), a general insurance agency in a community of less than 5,000 
persons. 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in accordance 
With §§ 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
Vi«*8 has expired. The Board has considered the applications and all 
c°toments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified in 
S 4<c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and finds that: 
Applicant presently owns 120 shares of Bank and proposes to 
*CclUire a n additional 293 shares of Bank from its own principal shareholders 
Uncludlng 137 shares purchased from minority shareholders in 1971). Bank, 
Vith deposits $2.3 million, controls 11.7 per cent of commercial bank 

3001 
- 2 -
deposits in Rawlins County and is the fourth smallest of five banks in the 
County. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1971.) Since the 
transaction essentially involves only a change from individual to 
corporate ownership, consummation of the proposal will have no significant 
adverse effects on existing or potential competition. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and prospects of Applicant and Bank appear to be satisfactory 
consistent with approval. In this connection, the Board has determined 
that the previous purchase of the 137 shares from minority shareholders 
V a s done on a basis which was substantially equivalent to the present offer, 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
co be served are consistent with approval of the application. It is the 
Bo 
°ard's judgment that consummation of the transaction would be in the 
Public interest and that the acquisition of Bank should be approved. 
Applicant acquired Agency in 1966 and operates Agency from bank 
Agency is the only general insurance agency in herndon, a 
c°Eimunity of less than 5,000 persons. The Board has previously determined 
^ regulation that the operation of such an agency is closely related 
to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)(iii)). 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that 
C°nsummation of the proposal would result in any undue concentration 
Of 
resources, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound 
bar*king practices. Approval of the application would enable Applicant to 
C°ntinue to provide a convenient source of insurance agency services for 

3002 
- 3 -
Herndon and nearby areas. Based on the foregoing and other considerations 
reflected in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of 
the public interest factors that the Board is required to consider regarding 
the acquisition of Agency under section 4(c)(8) is favorable and that 
the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The acquisition of bank shares 
shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
to delegated authority. The determination as to Agency's 
activities is subject to the Board's authority to require reports by, 
make examinations of, holding companies and their subsidiaries and 
to require such modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
Coiftpany or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure 
c°mPliance 
with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
tegulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"^ effective October 24, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
r 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
IjpVoting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer 
eehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane, 

IIP 
iff 
"C 
o 003 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R G 
^ O V C O ^ . . 
D R T H E 
Item No. 6 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 0 / 2 4 / 7 2 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2055! 
* 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORMCBPONOCNCe 
* • f A'^T pr 
. •' 
T n 7HF- BOARD 
October 25, 1972 
Fidelity International Bank 
120 Broadway 
New York, New York 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your .letter of September 7 , 1972 , 
the Board of Governors suspends, subject to continuing 
observation and review, the provisions of subparagraph (!) 
of its letter of January 10, 1969, relating to the acquisition 
of stock cf Banque Europeenne de Finaucemeut, Paris, France, 
by your Corporation, so far as those provisions relate to 
restrictions set forth in Sections 211.9(b) and (c) of 
Regulation K. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
\ 
I • 

31)04 
B H A R D 
• F 
G D V F . R N D R S 
of THC 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/24/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 2.01351 
ADDRtSS C1KF1CIAL CORRfSPUNDENCE 
TD THE BOAF(D 
October 25, 19 72 
. Casselman, II, Esq. 
General Counsel 
General Services Administration 
Washington, D. C. 20405 
E-ar Mr. Casselman: 
This is in response to your letter dated September 2S, 1972 
in which you request an opinion as to whether certain participation 
certificates, to be issued under the Purchase Contract Program of the 
General Services Administration, in implementation of the Public 
buildings Amendments Act of .1972 (P.L. 92-313), would be eligible as 
collateral security for advances to member banks pursuant to £ 13 
the. Federal Reserve Act: (12 U.S.C. § 347) and would be. "obligations 
of the United States" that State member banks may underwrite, deal in, 
ar,,i purchase f.ci their own account under the provisions of 12 IJ.S.C. 
£ 24 (the provisions of which are made, applicable to State, member 
banks by 12 U.S.C. § 335). 
Based on the opinion of the Attorney General of October 6, 1972. 
vl>ich concludes that the participation certificates are authorized 
law and constitute an absolute and unconditional general obligation 
of- the United States, the Board has concluded that the obligations 
aj?e "obligations of the United States" within the meaning of 
1 2 U.S.C. § 24. 
Also on the basis of the Attorney General's opinion, the 
fcoard proposes to treat any such obligations as a "direct obligation 
o f, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency 
o f the United States" (12 U.S.C. § 355) and thus eligible as 
collateral security for advances to member banks under the eighth 
Paragraph of 3 13 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. § 347)> 
^ich makes eligible as collateral security "such obligations as 
are eligible for purchase under § 14(b) of this Act" (12 U.S.C. § 355). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
I Rf. J 
Willi,on, w 

3005 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
Item No. 8 
F E D E R A L RE 5 ERVE S Y B T E M 
10/24/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ACDREGii DFTtCIAU CDKRE5P3NOUNCE 
TO THE F1UARD 
October 25, 1972 
Mr, Robert L. Schaeffer 
Assistant Director for Policy 
department of Health, Education 
"ind Welfare 
Health Care Facilities Service 
Rockville, Maryland 
20852 
Dear Mr. Schaeffer: 
This is in response to your letter of October 4 , 3972 
regarding whether certain HEW guaranty contracts would be eligible 
collateral security for advance under § 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. ? 347) and whether a State member bank may 
Underwrite., deal in, and purchase such obligations as "obligations 
the United States" under the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 5 24 
(the provisions of which are made applicable to State member 
banks by 12 U.S.C, § 335) . 
Based upon the opinion of the United States Attorney 
General dated August 9, 1972, enclosed with your letter, the Board 
determined that the HEW guaranty contracts described in your 
letl:er are "obligations of the United States" within the meaning 
o f 12 U.S.C. § 24. 
Also on the basis of the Attorney General's opinion, 
the Board proposes to treat any such obligation as a "direct 
l i g a t i o n of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest 
bV, any agency of the United States" (12 U.S.C. § 355) and thus 
°Ugiblc as collateral security for advances to member banks 
the eighth paragraph of § 13 of the Federal Reserve Act 
J;12 U.S.C. § 347)', which makes eligible as collateral security 
Sllr-h obligations as are eligible for purchase under S 14(b) 
Uils Act" (12 U.S.C. 5 355). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

'.•'oOVC.G,- • 
| 
v v ;-
<*> t h <T| 
y.i.Ktv--.-
Item No. 9 
10/24/72 
-or • anediate re 1 case 
October 24, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today a new effective dote—November 9—for implementing amendments to 
lfce Reflations D and J relating to a restructuring of reseive require-
ments and new check collection rules. 
The amendments had originally been scheduled to go into effect 
°n September 21 but were delayed as a result of court: action. Subse-
quent developments in the courts, however, now make it possible for the 
n°ard to set n new effective date for the regulatory changes which wi.11: 
—Apply the same reserve requirements to mei-ler banks of like 
regardless of a bank's location, 
(Regulation D) -
—Require all banks served by the Federal Reserve check collection 
^Btem to pay for checks in immediately available funds the same day the 
are presented for payment by the Federal Reserve. 
(Regulation J). 
The Regulation J change will go into effect on November 9 while 
the Regulation D changes will take effect in two steps beginning on that 
ato< 
The change in Regulation J :1s part of a program to modernize the 
nation«s payments mechanism which also includes establishment of Regional 
m. 
Processing Centers for the overnight clearing of checks. 
The reserve restructuring will apply the following ratios of 
requirements on net demand deposits to all member hanks: 

3007 
- 2 -
Amount: of Net Detiiand Deposits 
Reserve Percentages Applicable 
First: $2 million or less 
S per cent 
Over $2 million to $10 million 
10 per cent 
Over $10 million to $100 million 
12 per cent 
Over $100 million to $400 million 
13 per cent 
Over $400 million 
17-1/2 per cent 
The first three ratios—8, 10 and J 2 per cent—will go into 
effect beginning in the statement week of November 9 to November 15. 
I n addition, the reserve ratio of 17-1/2 per cent that now applies to 
^'•aatf deposits at present Reserve Ciiy banks will be reduced to 16-1/2 
cent on net demand depoyj to between $100 million end $41)0 iiill5.cn as 
P&'ct ol step one. 
During the statement week of November 16 to November 22, this 
•^tter ratio will be reduced from 16-1/2 per cent to 13 per cent. 
The revisions are intended to be neutral with respect to mone-
policy. The release has been timed to phase in with seasonal reserve 
and to fcive commercial banks time to make necessary adjustments 
t. 
"' 1'11e r ev.(. s ad regu 1 at i one. 
As announced previously, Federal Reserve banks will grant 
waivers of penalties on certain deficiencies in reserves attri-
t:o c^ngea i n regulations fi and J. These waivers have already 
art an red wJ.th nenber banks and will take effect November 9. Also, 
jer. 
Re-c.rva credit will be made available to nonmember banks in the 

- 3 -
event that trhe new check collection rules result, in a significant im-
pairment of: liquidity or impair the bank's ability to serve; its 
^raunity. 
Action to delay the original effective date of September 21 
te®u.(.-fced from the issuance of a temporary restraining order by the 
IJ*S* District Court for the District of Columbia on a petition filed by 
* 
i 
^ independent Bankers Association of. America cad the Western Independent 
Backer;;« 
On October 19, 1972 the U.S. District Court tor the District of 
denied a motion for a preliminary injunction sought by the 
^^'•linfj £fH o n the ground 
that the plaintiffs had failed to carry the 
kuHeri 
establishing (}.) \\-.at they would ho irreparably injured if the 
'^^ndmcnts to Regulation J were put into effect, and (2) that they would 
J-JKeiy to succeed on the merits of the case after full trial. This 
J^J.on v.ms 
consistent with the decision rendered on October 10, 1972 
U.S. District Court for the Central District of California in an 
° n brought by a group of California banks seeking to enjoin full imple 
N a t i o n of the Board4s Regulation J; this court's decision on a motion 
r. 
fieiir.ri.nary injunction was also based on these same grounds. 

TITLE 
12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER 11—-FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SU3CI&PTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. D and J3 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER. BANKS 
>A*T 210—GOLLEGTION OF CHECKS AKD OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Effective Dates of Amendments 
As a result of the Temporary Restraining Ordrx entered 
SGPter,boc 19, 1972, by the U.S. District: Court for the 'District 
Columbia upon petition filed by the Independent Bankers 
soelation of America and the Western Independent Bankers, the 
(;^'CctLve dates for amendments to the Board's Regulation D (.12 
-pavc 204) e.s set forth in the Federal Register of June 23, 1972 
^ 
Federal Register 12713)„ and for amendments to the Board's 
^eulatiou j (12 CFR Part 210) as set forth in the Federal Register 
o£ June 28, 1972. (37 Federal Register 12714), were postponed by the 
^Pard of Governors on September 20, 1972 pending judicial 
J 
•-^tmlnation and subsequent action by the Board. 
On October 19, 1972 the U.S. District Court for the 
district of Columbia denied a motion for a preliminary injunction 
*0ualit. by the j'lain tiffs on the ground that plaintiffs had failed 
cArvy tItburden of establishing (1) that they would be 
icv&Ptirably injured if the amendments to Regulation J were put 
intcv effect, and (/) that they would be. likely to succeed on the 

ay < » <1 K \ 
U ' j l O 
- 2 -
Merits of the case after full trial. The decision of the U.S. 
District Court for the District of Columbia was consistent with 
Ui?. decision rendered on October 10, 1972 by the U.S. District 
Court for the Central District of California in an action 
bought by a group of California banks seeking to enjoin full 
foftp 1 em en t a t. ion of the Board's Regulation J; this court's 
feision 
o u a motion for preliminary injunction was also based 
0ri these, same grounds. 
As 6. result of these, court determinations, the Board 
ha« decided to implement the amendments to Regulation D and 
Regulation J. 
The. amendments to Regulation J, which were scheduled 
c° become effective on September 21, 1972, are effective 
November 9, 1972. 
The amendments to Regulation D, which were scheduled 
t o become effective September 21, 1972, are effective November 9, 1972. 
•Clie amendments to Regulation D, which were scheduled to be 
A c t i v e for the period September 21, 1972 to September 27, 1972, 
effective for the period November 9, 1972 to November 15, 1972. 
amendments to Regulation D, which were scheduled to become 
•Active on September 28, 1972, are effective November 16, 1972. 
l t should be noted that the date "September 21, 1972" appearing 

In § 204.5(a) (1) (111) of Regulation D—.in the amendments 
Previously scheduled to become effective for the period 
September 21, 1972 to September 27, 1972—should now read 
''November 9, 1972". 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 24, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
USEALJ 

J JLfw 
B D A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r THE 
Item No. 10 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/24/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
« 
ADDRESS DFflCIAL CDRRESf'DNDr.NCE 
TC THE HOARD 
October 24, 1972. 
Unl ted Virginia Bank 
Box 6E 
Richmond, Virginia 23214 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to United Virginia Bank, Richmond, Virginia, pursuant 
to the provisions of Sections 9 and 2 5 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
establish a branch in George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, and 
to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Sections and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and not 
ay a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United 
States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with 
l:he local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and 
bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by 
another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1.) a continuing review of 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn cr 
Modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against 
deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without 
benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Sec-
tion 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided ir< proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
Covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office 
and will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives, 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's 
Methods of operation, including changes in any contract under which 
services are supplied to the branch. 
Permission to establish the proposed branch is also granted 
subject to the condition that United Virginia Bank shall liquidate its 
Nassau branch within six months of the opening of the Cayman Islands 
branch. 

o U J L 
United Virginia Bank 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before December 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed oi any future change in location of 
the branch in George Town. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
°nly at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the 
reserve requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these 
exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to 
compete abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has 
long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System 
to discourage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches 
of United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States, 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form oi allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for 
purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board' 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the 
balance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that 
In the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be 
placed on resources obtained outside the United States* 
Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will be made within the 
foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and 
af f i Iiat.es, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
