MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 22, 1972 

22:13 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 22, 19 72. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Axilrod reviewed recent open market developments. Copies 
°f the statistical materials customarily prepared for the weekly 
economic and financial review had been distributed to members of the 
B°ard, and appropriate officers and staff of the Divisions of Research 
^ d Statistics and International Finance were present at today's meeting 

2214 
8/22/72 
-2-
to answer questions that might be raised. Copies of the statistical 
materials have been placed in the Board's files. 
Mr. Cardon reviewed matters of interest to the Board presently 
being considered by the Congress. 
Members of the staff who had been present specifically for the 
review of open market developments then withdrew and the following 
entered: Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel, and Messrs. Dahl, 
Egertson, and Lyon, Assistant Directors, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, along with other appropriate supporting staff. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a change in 
a condition of membership in the Federal Reserve System for Old Colony 
Sank and Trust Company of Williamsburg, Williamsburg, Virginia, a pro-
Posed new bank, relating to its capital funds. A copy of the letter 
sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division of Federal Reserve 
Hank Operations in a memorandum dated August 8, 1972, with the concurrence 
°f the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, the 
^oard unanimously approved exemptions from the December 31, 1972, 
employment ceilings at the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Richmond, 
Minneapolis, and Dallas as specified in telegrams to the respective 
^anks, copies of which are attached as Items 2-5. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
August 3, 19 72, of the application of United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, 

2215 
8/22/72 
-3-
New Jersey, to acquire shares of The Second National Bank of Orange, 
Orange, New Jersey. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on August 3, 19 72, of the application of United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, 
New Jersey, to acquire shares of The Dover Trust Company, Dover, New 
Jersey. A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 7, along with 
a dissenting statement of Governor Robertson. 
The Board unanimously approved for transmittal to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency a report on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed merger of The Bank of North Lewisburg Company, North Lewisburg, 
Ohio, into The Citizens National Bank of Urbana, Urbana, Ohio, the con-
clusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Citizens 
National Bank of Urbana and The Bank of North Lewisburg 
Company would eliminate some present competition and a 
minor amount of potential competition. However, it 
would provide a stronger local competitor in the North 
Lewisburg area. Overall, the effect on competition 
would be slightly adverse. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
United Missouri Bancshares. In a memorandum dated August 10, 
1972 . the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
the application of United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, 
Missouri, to acquire shares of Wornall Bank, Kansas City, Missouri. 
Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 

O O 'C 
iC/Olo 
8/22/72 
-4-
City also recommended approval. With a covering memorandum dated 
August 16, 1972, the Legal Division submitted a draft order reflecting 
approval of the application. 
The draft order stated that the proposal would not eliminate 
any significant existing competition nor foreclose significant potential 
competition, because there had been a long standing relationship between 
the applicant's lead bank and Wornall Bank and the relationship was 
likely to continue regardless of the Board's action on the present appli-
cation. During discussion reservations were expressed about this con-
clusion, on the basis that the Board had statutory responsibility to 
consider all of the competitive factors involved even though there was 
a long standing relationship between the two banks. 
Questions also were raised about the banking interests in the 
Kansas City area of R. Crosby Kemper, Sr., Chairman of the Executive 
Committee of United Missouri Bancshares. 
Action on the application was deferred, with the understanding 
that the draft order would be revised in light of today's discussion 
and that the staff would provide additional information for the Board's 
consideration. 
Proposed amendments to margin regulations. In a memorandum 
dated August 21, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
^commended that the Board postpone from September 1, 1972, to 

L i 
8/22/72 
-5-
December 1, 1972, the proposed effective date of proposed amendments 
to Regulations G, T, and U regarding credit to contribute capital 
to brokers and dealers. 
After brief discussion of the draft of Federal Register notice, 
the Board unanimously approved the recommendation. A copy of the notice 
Published in the Federal Register is attached under Item No. 8, along 
with a copy of the related press release. 
Report on competitive factors. After discussion, the Board 
approved for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
a report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
°f First National Bank of Natick, Natick, Massachusetts, into Guaranty 
Trust Company, Waltham, Massachusetts, the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Guaranty Trust 
Company, Waltham, Massachusetts, and First National Bank of 
Natick, Natick, Massachusetts, would eliminate some existing 
competition and potential for increased competition between 
the two banks. However, numerous banking alternatives exist 
in the area, and the resulting bank might be a somewhat stronger 
competitor. The overall competitive effect would be slightly 
adverse. 
Governor Brimmer took the position that the effects of the 
Merger on competition would be adverse. 
Northern States Financial Corporation. In a memorandum dated 
August 1, 19 72, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of (1) the application of Northern States Financial Corporation, 

2218 
8/22/72 
-6-
Detroit, Michigan, to become a bank holding company through the direct 
acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to City National Bank 
of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, and (2) a related application of Twin 
Gates Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware, to exchange its interest in 
City National Bank of Detroit for 22.5 per cent of the voting shares 
of Northern States Financial Corporation. As an incident to the 
acquisition of City National, Northern States would acquire indirectly 
13.2 per cent of the voting shares of National Bank of Rochester, 
Rochester, Michigan, which shares were held by City National's Profit 
Sharing Trust for the benefit of City National employees. 
Although he favored approval of the application, Governor 
Bucher raised several general questions about the propriety of using 
employee trust funds for the purchase of stock in an affiliate bank. 
!t was noted that the Board's staff was making a study of this issue 
and that a report would be made to the Board. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting the decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 9. 
The Board then moved to a limited session with appropriate 
members of the staff present. 
Franklin National Bank. Mr. O'Connell reported that he had had 
a visit from representatives of the legal firm of Mudge, Rose, Guthrie & 

2213 
8/22/72 
-7-
Alexander, who wanted the Board to intercede with the Bank of England 
to urge that Franklin National Bank be given a full dealership license 
in foreign exchange. The staff reported that the Bank of England had 
been given information regarding the holding company status of Franklin 
National Bank, which might have a bearing on the decision, and did not 
feel that it would be desirable for the Board to take any further steps 
in this matter. After discussion, the Board declined to take any 
formal action. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

) : - ».•" s ' i tu * 
V 1 
- ' ^ V 
'•^LrlV-V" 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F' THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
22Z9 
Item No. 1 
8/22/72 
A D O R C S K 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R H E B P U N O C N L E 
T D T u r 
B O A > 7 D 
August 22, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Old Colony Bank and Trust Company 
of Williamsburg 
Wi11iamsburg, Virginia 
Gentlemen: 
On July 5, 1972, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System approved the application of Old Colony Bank arid 
I'rust Company of Williamsburg, Williamsburg, Virginia, for member-
ship j.n the Federal Reserve System. The Board's letter contained 
three conditions of membership, one of which stated: 
"At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not 
lees than $1,000,000 and other capital funds of not less 
than $500,000." 
The. Board of Governors has approved your request that the 
above quoted condition of membership be amended to read as follows: 
"At the time of admission to member ship, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not 
less than $700,000 and other capital funds ol" not less 
than $350,000." 
V e r y t r u 1 y y oi i r s, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

T E L E G R A M 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
BOARD O F G O V E R N O R S OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
August 22, 1972 
2221 
Item No. 2 
8/22/72 
NAYES - NEW YORK 
The Board has approved the 10 additional employee positions requested 
exemption in your employment status report submitted with 
Rushmore's letter dated July 17, 1972. Accordingly, the New York 
district is authorized a December 31, 1972, manpower level of 4,665 
full- time nositions. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
T. SMITH 

T E L E G R A M 
Item No. 4 
8/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
• OARD OF GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
August 22, 1972 
HEFLIN - RICHMOND 
Ihe Board has approved the 11 additional employee positions at 
Baltimore requested for exemption in your -July 21, 1972, letter. 
Accordingly, the Richmond District is authorizt'.d a December 31, 197 
Manpower level of 1,820 full-time positions, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
T. SMITH" 

T E L E G R A M 
Item No. 4 
8/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
BOARD O F GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
August 22, 1972 
HACLAljRY - MINNEAPOLIS 
The Board has approved the one additional employee position requested 
for exemption in your July 12, 1972, letter submitting your employment 
status report. Accordingly, the Minneapolis District is authorized 
* December 31, 1972, manpower level of 840 full-time positions. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
T. SMITH" 

T E L E G R A M 
Item No. 
8/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S O F T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
August 22, 1972 
COLDWELL - DALLAS 
She Board has approved the exemption of five additional employee 
Positions to provide for the District-wide integrated data and checl 
Processing system. Accordingly, the Dallas District is authorized 
a December 31, 1972, manpower level of 1,240 full-time positions. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
T. SMITH 

9 9 9 ^ 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED JERSEY BANKS 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Item No. 6 
8/22/72 
v 
/ • 
United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of The Second National Bank 
Orange, Orange, New Jersey ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(c)). 
Applicant has twelve subsidiary banks with total deposits 
approximately $1.1 billion and ranks as the second largest 
rftnlti-bank holding company in New Jersey with 6.3 per cent of 
total deposits in commercial banks in the State.-7 (All banking 
data are as of December 31, 1971 unless otherwise shown.) As a 
result of consummation of the proposal herein, Applicant's rank, 
in relation to the State's other bank holding companies, would 
I^This does not include The Dover Trust Company, Dover, New Jersey. 
BV order of this date, the Board has approved Applicant s acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares of that bank. 
remain unchanged 

-2-
Bank ($38 million in deposits), with three offices in 
the city of Orange (in Essex County) operates in the Greater 
N^ark banking market. Of the 45 banking organizations operating 
i n that market, Bank ranks nineteenth, based on total market 
deposits. Two of Applicants subsidiary banks, Peoples Trust of 
New Jersey ("Peoples"), Applicant's lead bank, and Central Home 
T r u s t Company of Elizabeth, N.J. ("Central"), operate in the market, 
together they hold less than 1.3 per cent of total market deposits 
Applicant ranks as the fifteenth largest banking organization 
j a the market based on market deposits. After consummation of 
tlle proposed acquisition, Applicant would rank tenth, holding 
^Proximately 2.2 per cent of market deposits. Bank derives 
2 7 
*' per cent of its loans, 1.3 per cent of its demand deposits, 
a a d 0.5 per cent of its time and savings deposits from areas 
setved by Peoples and Central. Conversely, Peoples and Cental 
derive an insignificant portion of their loan and deposit business 
ft 
° m Bank's service area. Consummation of the proposed transaction 
w°uld, therefore, eliminate no significant existing competition. 
^U© I- r» l 
Bank's conservative operation, its limited branching 
°Pportunities. and the distances separating its branches from 
th 
° S e of Applicant's subsidiary banks, it is unlikely that con-
Urn™ation of the proposal would foreclose significant potential 
^Petition between Bank and any of Applicant's present subsidiary 
banks. 

O O O K M 
-3-
Taking into account Applicant's commitment to add $15 million to 
the 
^te 
equity capital accounts cf Peoples discussed in the Board's Order of this 
w*th respect to The Dover Trust Company, considerations relating to the 
ancial anci managerial resources and prospects of Bank and Applicant and 
its 
Subsidiaries are considered satisfactory and consistent with approval 
of th 
e aP?lication. Although the proposed new services that Applicant intends 
^ke available through Bank are generally available from other banks in 
the c 
^unities to be served, consummation of Applicant's proposal would 
a n alternative source of such services as expanded installment, 
Clal, and mortgage lending, international banking, data processing, 
^counting. The provision of an additional source of these services 
better enable Bank to compete in a market in which more than 53 per 
V 
of 
£ total deposits are held by the three largest banking organizations. 
Sitd 
^ 
Nations bearing on the convenience and needs of the communities to 
SerVed a r e consistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's 
^ 
e n t that the proposed transaction is in the public interest and should 
On the basis of the record, including the Board's understanding that 
4pplican. 
r „ 
n t will add $15 million to the equity capital accounts of Peoples, 
^ tor the reasons summarized above, the application is approved. The 
^tis 
shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day 
W l nS the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months 

2228 
-4-
after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
g0°d cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective August 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
£ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson 
q c i l eH, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
vernor Bucher. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYST&4 
United Jersey Banks 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, Hew Jersey, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under 0 3(a)(3) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares 
°f The Dover Trust Company, Dover, New Jersey ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with 5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing com-
ments and views has expired, and none have been timely received. 
The Board has considered the application in light of the factors 
Set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(c)), 
Applicant controls 12 banks-^holding deposits of $1.1 
billion, representing 6.3 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
b*nks in New JerseyAcquisition of Bank would not significantly 
increase Applicant's control of commercial bank deposits in the 
State. 
Bank, with deposits of $41.3 million, as of June 30, 
l970, controlled approximately 19.4 per cent of deposits in the 
D°Ver-Roxbury banking market,held by commercial banks. Based on 
This does not include The Second National Bank of Orange, Orange,^ 
Jersey. By order of this date, the Board has approved Applicant's 
accluisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
^alif y i n g shares) of that bank. 
f All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, unless otherwise 
indicated, and include formations and acquisitions through June 30, 1972. 
Item No. 7 
8/22/72 

I 
-2 
2230 
share of deposits in the market, Bank ranks second among the ten 
banking organizations in that market, although Bank ranks seventh 
among the banking organizations operating in the market, based on 
total deposits held. Bank also operates a branch office in the 
Hackettstown banking market0 
It appears that consummation of the proposed transaction 
will not adversely affect existing competition in the Dover-Roxbury 
4 
market, as Applicant does not serve that market. Consummation may 
eliminate some competition in the Hackettstown market, since 
Applicant's lead bank, Peoples Trust of New Jersey ("Peoples"), 
°Perates branch offices in that market and held 19.5 per cent 
total market deposits. The six offices of Peoples in that 
Market are all within fifteen miles of Dover. Bank's branch in 
market is approximately 10.3 miles east of the nearest office 
Peoples. As of December 31, 1971, Bank derived 1.1 per cent 
its deposits and 1.7 per cent of its loans from the service 
a*ea of Peoples. Conversely, Peoples derived less than 0.1 per 
cetit of its deposits from Bank's service area, Consummation of 
the proposal would eliminate no significant existing competition 
the Hackettstown Market. 
Consummation of the proposal would have only slightly 
adverse effects on potential competition in both the Dover-Roxbury 
Hackettstown markets. Applicant's four subsidiary banks 

2231 
-3-
located in the First Banking District are permitted to branch 
into the Dover-Roxbury market. However, nine of the thirteen 
communities comprising that market are afforded home office or 
branch office protection and two others lack sufficient population 
t o support additional banking offices. Applicant could enter the 
Dover-Roxbury market by the establishment of a de novo bank or by 
acquisition of one of the three smaller independent banks in that 
Market. However, its acquisition of Bank should be a pro-competitive 
factor in that Bank, which has been rather conservatively managed 
the past, should, under Applicant's guidance, become a stronger 
competitive force vis a vis the six larger banks (four of which 
a r e subsidiaries of multi-bank holding companies) with which it 
competes in the Dover-Roxbury market. Bank's branch in the 
Ha l 
ckettstown market controls deposits of less than one million 
^ U a r s , Due to Bank's size and conservative management and 
the 
Presence of five of the State's multi-bank holding companies 
itl k 
t he market it is unlikely that, absent this proposal, Bank would 
^ecome a significant competitive force in the market. Consummation 
of tf 
proposal therefore would not eliminate a signficant possibility 
f the development of substantial competition betxzeen Bank and Appli-
applicant has indicated its willingness to increase the equity capital 
of ju . 
n K by $1 million and the equity capital of Peoples by $15 million 
sh0ulf1 
the Board deem it necessary. The Board has concluded that both 
ar*d Peoples are in need of such amounts of equity capital. Based on 
B°ardfs understanding that Applicant will make such infusions of equity 

2232 
-3-
capital, considerations relating to the financial resources and future 
Prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank lend weight toward 
approval. Trust, data processing, and expanded loan services 
Applicant proposes to provide through Bank are generally available in 
the communities to be served. However, consummation of the proposed 
transaction would create another alternative source of such services. 
Thus, considerations relating to the convenience and needs of those 
communities are consistent with approval of the application. It is the 
board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
an<i should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, including the Board's understanding 
that Applicant will make infusions of equity capital as referred to 
above, and for the reasons summarized above, the application is approved. 
Th 
le transaction shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
York pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
3/ 
^ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane 
immpn- 
c i — u o r » t ! • « - ! o + - T - . - t o 
Governor Robertson. 
^unmer, and Sheehan. Voting against this action: 
Se^t and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

2233 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
Consummation of the acquisition proposed in this case 
would have adverse effects on potential competition in both the 
Dover-Roxbury and Hackettstown markets. Under New Jersey law, 
the four subsidiary banks of Applicant located in New Jersey's 
First Banking District are permitted to branch into the Dover-
Roxbury market. Applicant could enter the Dover-Roxbury market 
by the establishment of a de novo bank. It has the financial 
aacl managerial resources to pursue this method of entry and has 
demonstrated its ability to enter markets de novo by the establish-
ment of a new bank in Cherry Hill Township and its application for 
^mission to establish a new bank in Lakewood. De novo entry 
through branching or the establishment of a new bank would be 
l e s s anticompetitive than, and therefore preferable to, the instant 
Pr°posal, as would be acquisition of one of the three smaller 
^dependent banks in the Dover-Roxbury market. 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition will also fore-
close the development of competition between Bank and Peoples in 
Hackettstown market that could derive from further branching 
either within that market. The Hackettstown market is one of 
th -
e fastest growing areas in the First Banking District and, indeed, 
the State. Six municipalities in the market are open to branching 
°nsummation of the acquisition will therefore adversely affect com-
Petition in two markets. 

2234 
- 2 -
Major holding companies should be discouraged from seek-
ing to acquire important local competitors in markets in which they 
ate already represented or are likely to enter through less anti-
competitive means, as in the case here, especially when, as in this 
ease, there are no derivative public benefits sufficient to outweigh 
adverse effects upon potential competition, 
I therefore would deny the application. 
August 22, 1972 

<•?/- 
•*-;•• 
\ 
). \ " 
For immediate release 
August 23: 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today postponed until December 1, 1972, the effective date of 
conditions as set forth in proposed regulatory amendments under 
which credit may be obtained without regard to initial margin re-
quirements for the purpose of providing capital to broker-dealer 
firms. 
On July 9 } 1971, th= Board issued in revised form 
Proposed •amendments to margin Regulations G, T, and U setting 
forth these conditions. 
A copy of the postponement notice is attached. 
Item No. 8 
8/22/72 
-0-

2238 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(12 CFR PARTS 207, 220, and 221) 
(Regs« G, 1\ and U) 
SECURITIES CREDIT ?Ar PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, OR DEALERS 
CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR CARRYING MARGIN STOCK 
Notice postponing effective date of 
proposed amendments in regard to 
Credit: to Contribute Capital to Brokers 
and Dealers. 
1. Pursuant to the authority contained in the Securities 
^change Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 7Cg), the Board of Governors, on 
Ju'ly 9, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13218), published revisions to its 
Proposals to amend Parts 207, 220, and 221 (Regulations G, T, and D), 
to become effective October I, 1971, but postponed to September 1, 
by Notice (37 Federal Register 4968), 
2. In light of developments with respect to the captial 
lules applicable to brokers and dealers, and continuing studies by 
C:tll<vr regulatory bodies, the Board hereby announces that it will postpone 
l'proposed effective date to December 1, 1972, 
3. As a result of the postponement of the proposed ef£ec-
''Vci date, the proposed changes to Regulations G, T, and 1J would apply 
c-cedit extended by banks, brokers or dealers, and persons subject 
C° ^rN°,uliicion G after December 1, 1972 and to renewals after such date 
k Credit extended by banks after 
(i) April 16, 1971 in the case of credit extended 
to a customer for the purpose of making a loan 

2237 
or contribution of: capital to a broker or 
dealer subject to Pnrt 220 (Regulation r) , 
(it) July 9, 1971 in the case cC credit extended 
directly to a broker or dealer. 
By order of the. Board of Governors, August 22 
, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2233 
Item No. 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/22/72 
NORTHERN STATES FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
THIN GATES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Transactions under Bank Holding Company Act 
Northern States Financial Corporation, Detroit, Michigan 
("Northern States"), has applied for the Board's approval, under 
5 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), for 
fche formation of a bank holding company through acquisition of 100 per 
c®nt of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the 
successor by merger to City National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan 
("City National"). The bank into which City National is to be merged 
^as no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition 
o f all the voting shares of City National. Accordingly, the proposed 
accluisition of the successor organization is treated herein as the 
Proposed acquisition of City National. As an incident to the acquisition 
City National, Northern States would acquire indirectly 13.2 per cent 
the voting shares of National Bank of Rochester, Rochester, Michigan 
( Rochester Bank"), which shares are held by City National's profit 
sharing 
trust for the benefit of City National's employees; by virtue of 
^ 2(g)(2) of the Act, Northern States would be deemed to control such 
shares upon its acquisition of City National. 
In a related application, Twin Gates Corporation, Wilmington, 
Delaware ("Twin Gates"), a registered bank holding company owning 
Meetly 22.5 per cent of the voting shares of City National- and 
i' In 
addition, ten separate trusts established for the benefit of the 
beholders of Tr/in Gates hold an additional 15.8 per cent of the out-
ending shares of City National. Control of said shares is attributed 
Twin Gates by virtue of 15 2(g)(2) of the Act. 

2239 
-2-
2/ 
20 per cent of the voting shares of Rochester Bank,— has applied to 
the Board for approval to exchange the interest it holds in City National 
for 22.5 per cent of the voting shares of Northern States. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
^ light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Northern States was organized recently in order to acquire 
shares of City National. As a result of consummation of the proposed 
transaction, Twin Gates would acquire 22.5 per cent of the outstanding 
shares of Northern States through the exchange of shares that it holds 
^ City National for shares of Northern States: and Northern States 
*'ould become a subsidiary of Twin Gates; City National would become a 
direct subsidiary of Northern States and an indirect subsidiary of 
^in Gates; Rochester Bank would remain a subsidiary of Twin Gates; Twin 
Gates would continue to control, in the aggregate, approximately $539.9 
Million in deposits, which represents about 2.3 per cent of the total 
commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking data are as of 
Member 31, 1971.) 
City National ($529 million of deposits), headquartered in 
do^ntown Detroit, operates 30 offices throughout the Detroit SMSA, 
•^Rochester Bank is also a subsidiary of Twin Gates by virtue of the 
^act that 20 per cent of Rochester Bank's voting shares are owned directly 
^ Twin Gates, and control of an additional 13.2 per cent of Rochester 
^nk'a voting shares is attributed to Twin Gates because of control of 
Such shares by a subsidiary (City National) of Twin Gates. 

-3-
and holds about 4 per cent of the commercial bank deposits therein. 
Rochester Rank ($10.9 million of deposits), located in a suburb about 
miles from City National's main office in downtown Detroit, operates 
*ts only office in Avon township, and holds about .04 per cent of the 
commercial bank deposits in the Detroit market. In the Detroit reirket, 
City National and Rochester Bank rank, respectively, as the 6th and 
37th largest banking organizations among 43 banking organizations. An 
office of City National is located 3.3 miles south of Rochester Bank. 
However the banks are already subsidiaries of Twin Gates and do not 
aPpear to be in competition with each other. Rochester Bank was organized 
novo in 1964 by individuals associated with City National and 
been operated more or less as a branch of City National 
Unil°r c o c 1 n o n ownership. 
On the basis of the facts of record, 
Notably the close working association of the two banks, the common owner-
3tliP> and the unlikelihood that the banks would become disaffiliated 
j 
the reasonably near future, the Board concludes that consummation 
proposal x-zould not have any adverse effects on existing or 
Potential competition. 
Northern States, having been recently organized, has no 
tating history; its financial condition, managerial resources, and 
p y > _ 
sPects depend on those of its proposed subsidiary, City Nationa.1., 
least for the near future. The financial and managerial resources 
^ i n Gates appear satisfactory, and its prospects are considered 
v°rable. The financial condition and managerial resources and prospects 
of Cit-
cy National and Rochester Bank are regarded as generally satisfactory 
n d consistent with approval of the applications. 

2 2 
-4-
The capital position of City National is low for 
a subsidiary of a bank holding company and should be strengthened. 
The 
Board has previously expressed 
the view 
that a 
holding 
company should agree to strengthen the capital position of each of 
subsidiaries to a desirable level as a condition to Board approval 
of the bank holding company formation or expansion. Northern States 
has committed itself to a capital improvement program that will, 
uPon its implementation, increase the capital account of City National 
by $25 million. As a result of this injection of capital, the financial 
c°ndition of City National would be strengthened and its prospects 
Chanced. The improvement expected in City National's capital account 
a s a result of Northern States' capital improvement program and the 
heater access that Northern States is likely to have to capital markets 
than either of the two banks alone lend weight for approval of the 
aPplications. 
Inasmuch as the proposed transactions involve essentially a 
corporate reorganization, there would be no immediate effects on the 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. 
However, considera-
tions relating to the convenience and needs of the communities are 
insistent with approval of the applications. 
It is the Board's judgment 
^ a t consummation of the proposal would be in the public interest and 
tllat the applications should be approved. 

224 
-5-
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
iTv—-
V h ° t i n 8 f o r t h i s action: Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and 
*tid 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson 
Daane. 
