Minutes for 
June 12, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 12, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Cloth, Forrestal, and Porter of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Golden, Greenspun, and Shull of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Achor of the Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the members of the Board. Copies are attached under the respec-
tive item numbers indicated. 
Item No 
Lettei 
Ind 
•r to Farmers Loan and Trust Company, Tipton, 
lana, approving the establishment of an in-
own branch (drive-in facility) and commenting on 
e bank's large volume of criticized loans. 

2H70 
6/12/67 
- 2 -
Item No. 
Letter to Bamerical International Financial 
2 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting con-
sent to the acquisition of additional shares of 
Societe Financiere Europeenne, Paris, France, 
and Societe Financiere Europeenne Holding, 
Luxembourg. 
Application of Seattle Trust and Savings Bank. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated June 6, 
1967, and other pertinent papers relating to the application of Seattle 
Trust and Savings Bank, Seattle, Washington, for permission to merge 
yo. 
with Olympia State Bank and Trust Company, Olympia, Washington. The 
recommendat ions of the Board's staff and the San Francisco Reserve Bank 
were favorable. 
In discussion it was noted that under the terms of the merger 
agreement shareholders of Olympia State Bank would receive a premium 
book value of approximately $80 per share, or an aggregate premium 
°f about 10.6 per cent of the deposits of Olympia State Bank as of 
February 28, 1967. In December 1966 an offer had been made by another 
Seattle bank to purchase two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Olympia 
State Bank for cash, but the offer was declined, reportedly because of 
tax consequences. Shareholders of Seattle Trust and Savings Bank who 
°Wned approximately 22 per cent of the outstanding stock of that bank 
a ] 
* 
i S 0 owned about 61 per cent of the outstanding shares of Olympia State 
Bank, this common ownership dating back to 1947, when the latter bank 
Was chartered. 

2 :V7i 
6/12/67 
- 3 -
Governor Maisel raised the question whether the Board had a 
responsibility, in view of the large premium being offered and the 
substantial amount of stock of Olympia State Bank held by a minority 
but apparently controlling group of shareholders of Seattle Trust and 
Savings Bank, to assure itself that the nature of the proposal was 
understood by the other shareholders and was agreeable to them. 
In response to an inquiry, the Division of Examinations indi-
cated that it did 
not know whether the merger proposal had yet been 
voted upon by the shareholders of Seattle Trust and Savings Bank. 
With regard to the premium being offered, Mr. Solomon commented 
that the offer made for the shares of Olympia State Bank by a Seattle 
national bank was nearly as good and apparently had been rejected only 
because of tax consequences arising from the fact that the offer was 
° n a cash basis. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the shareholders of Seattle 
T r u s t and Savings Bank who held shares of Olympia State Bank were those 
who had taken the risk involved in getting the latter bank started. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that the staff check with 
the San Francisco Reserve Bank to ascertain the full facts relating to 
the question that had been raised and, since there appeared to be no 
°ther questions, that the merger application stand approved unless 
information was developed that in Governor Maisel's judgment would make 
if seem advisable to bring the case back to the Board. 

2H72 
6/12/67 
- 4 -
Accordingly, the merger application was approved unanimously, 
subject to the understanding stated by Governor Robertson, and it was 
understood that an order and statement reflecting the decision would 
be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Further report on anti-lottery bill (Item No. 3). On June 1, 
1967, the Board approved a letter to Chairman Patman of the House 
Banking and Currency Committee with regard to H.R. 9892, a bill designed 
to prohibit insured banks and savings and loan associations from selling 
otherwise dealing in lottery tickets. The Board made no recommenda-
tion for or against enactment of the bill but suggested that if the 
Banking and Currency Committee decided to report such a bill favorably, 
the bill be amended to define more precisely the types of activities 
that would be prohibited. 
A new bill (H.R. 10595) had now been introduced and reported 
by 
the Committee, and Chairman Patman had inquired whether the new bill 
answered the questions raised by the Board in its report on H.R. 9892. 
other supervisory agencies also had been asked to comment. 
A memorandum from Mr. Cardon dated June 9, 1967, pointed out 
that the new bill did not prohibit acceptance of deposits from any 
Source. It simply prohibited sale of lottery tickets and closely 
related activities, such as public announcements and record keeping by 
banks or on bank premises. A legal analysis prepared by the staff of 
Banking and Currency Committee was attached to the memorandum. 

6/12/67 
- 5 -
Mr. Cardon proposed in his memorandum a reply to Chairman 
Patman stating that the revisions answered the questions as to cover-
age that were mentioned in the Board's report on H.R. 9892. 
Mr. Cardon now read a letter from Chairman Patman that had 
been received since the June 9 memorandum was distributed, and in light 
°f the text of that letter suggested the inclusion of an additional 
comment in the Board's reply. 
Governor Brimmer noted that the letter should not be read as 
an indication that the Board endorsed the proposed legislation, and 
members of the Board expressed the view that no such endorsement was 
implicit in the letter. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter to Chair-
man Patman in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
Several members of the staff who had been involved in the con-
sideration of the foregoing items withdrew at this point. 
Rotation policy for directors. In a memorandum dated June 9, 
1967, Mr. Fauver related that President Hickman of the Cleveland 
Reserve Bank had raised the question whether the Board might be willing 
t o consider making an exception to its two-term rotation policy for 
Board-appointed directors in the case of Mr. Barney A. Tucker, Chair-
m an of the Cincinnati Branch, whose term would expire December 31, 1967, 
uPon the 
completion of six full years of service. It appeared that Mr. 
Tucker had been deeply involved in the negotiations for and arrangements 

2374 
6/12/67 
- 6 -
concerning the new Cincinnati Branch building and that, in Mr. Hickman' 
judgment, his continued service would be useful to the Cleveland Bank 
and the Cincinnati Branch in carrying out this project. President 
Hickman pointed out that one of the other Board-appointed directors, 
Mr. Del R. Cawthorne, would be resigning at midyear to take a position 
with the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and that the third Board-
appointed director, Mr. Graham E. Marx, had taken office only at the 
beginning of this year. 
In presenting the question, Mr. Fauver reported that he had 
Mentioned the matter to Chairman Martin, who expressed reservations 
about breaching the rotation policy, other than in extreme circum-
stances, because one exception would lead to the question of further 
exceptions. Mr. Fauver noted that conceivably an exception in the 
case of Mr. Tucker would raise a question in regard to Chairman Hall 
o f the Cleveland Bank who, under the rotation policy, would be ineli-
gible for reappointment when his present term expired at the end of 
this year. 
There followed a general discussion of the history of the 
Cincinnati building project, including the role played in it by Chair-
m an Hall, and the current status of the project. Reference was made 
t o the several changes in planning that had occurred in the course of 
consideration of the project and to at least one question that remained 
to be resolved through litigation pertaining to the availability of a 
Certain piece of property. 

2.375 
6/12/67 
- 7 -
While the circumstances that might make it valuable to have 
Mr. Tucker continue as Chairman of the Branch Board were recognized, 
there was also recognition of the reasons that argued against making 
exceptions to the rotation policy. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, Governor Brimmer noted 
that no final decision on the question raised by President Hickman 
appeared to be necessary at this time. He suggested that Mr. Fauver 
be authorized to advise President Hickman of the reluctance of Board 
members to breach the rotation policy but at the same time to indicate 
that there was some sentiment within the Board to consider making an 
exception in this instance if no better solution appeared in the light 
°f developments relating to the building project. 
Governor Daane pointed out that in any event the strongest 
Possible replacement should be sought for Mr. Cawthorne and that Presi-
dent Hickman's question could be considered further after that replace-
ment had been determined. 
Other members of the Board having expressed their general 
agreement, Governor Robertson summarized by saying that it was under-
stood that Mr. Fauver would emphasize to President Hickman the Board's 
desire to obtain capable replacements for Mr. Cawthorne and also for 
Tucker, with indication that the Board would be prepared to consider 
making an exception to the rotation policy in this instance only if cir-
cumstances seemed clearly to justify such an exception in the light of 
developments. 

V •VjitfV 
6/12/67 
- 8 -
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letters to all foreign banking and foreign financing corporations 
operating under the provisions of sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act calling for reports of condition as of June 30, 1967. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Clarence L. Naylor as Cafeteria Laborer, Division of Administra-
tive Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Lila D. Roberts, Telephone Operator, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective June 2, 1967. 
Governor Robertson today noted on behalf 
of the Board a memorandum advising that 
James H. Joyce, Assistant Federal Reserve 
Examiner, Division of Examinations, had 
filed application for retirement, effec-
tive July 8, 1967. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
QP THE 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6 / 1 2 / 6 7 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P C) N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 12, 1967. 
Board of Directors, 
Farmers Loan and Trust Company, 
Tipton, Indiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Farmers Loan and 
Trust Company, Tipton, Indiana, of a branch at 202 North 
Main Street, Tipton, ..Indiana, provided the branch is 
established within six months from the date of this letter. 
The Board understands that the most recent 
examination of your bank disclosed a large volume of 
criticized loans. The Board urges that lending and 
collection policies be carefully reviewed and action be 
taken to strengthen overall loan administration. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 2 
6/12/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R M E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 12, 1967. 
• V " W V > 
Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation, 
JJ1 Broad Street, 
N ew York, New York. 10015 
Lemen: 
of r
 
A s requested in your letter of April 27, 1967, the Board 
h o l d ^ n ° r S S r a n t s consent for your Corporation to purchase and 
Fra additional shares of Soclete Financiere Europeenne, Paris, 
Hold06' a n d a d d l t i o n a l shares of Societe Financiere Europeenne' 
In H ^ 8 ' L u x e m b o u r 8 » a t a t o tal cost of approximately US$115,622. 
a d d i' i 8 connection, the Board approves the purchase and holding of 
ce8 
? n a l s h a r e s o f Societe Financiere Europeenne Holding in ex-
s of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
• 
that th 
^ 
f o r e 8 ° i n § consents are given with the understanding 
eign l 
i n v e s t m e n t s n o w being approved, combined with other for-
Nati 
f n S a n d i n v e s t m e n t s of your Corporation, Bank of America 
T r U S t a n d S a v i n 8 s Association, and Bank of America, New 
e X c e V 1 1 1 n 0 t C a U S 6 t h G t 0 t a l ° f S U C h l o a n S a n d investments to 
cr ed> t h e g u i d e l i n e s established under the voluntary foreign 
is bo 
r e s t r a i n t effort now in effect and that due consideration 
8 given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
B O A R D 
• F G O V E R 
N D R 5 
WASHINGTON, • . C. 3 0 5 5 1 
O F T H E 
OFFICE OF THE VICE CHAIRMAN 
Item No 
6/12/67 
June 12, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of June 9 in which 
you request comments on H.R. 10595, as reported by your Committee. 
You will recall that while the Board's report on the 
predecessor bill, H.R. 9892, made no recommendation for or against 
its enactment, it did suggest that if your Committee decided to 
report such a bill favorably to the House, the bill should be 
amended to define more precisely the type of activities to be 
Prohibited. 
The Board appreciates the care with which your Committee 
has defined the scope of the revised bill, H.R. 10595. The 
revisions answer the questions as to coverage which were mentioned 
in our report on H.R. 9892, and we believe that the provisions of 
the reported bill that place administrative responsibilities in 
the Board can be effectively carried out. 
Sincerely 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
