609 
Minutes for 
February 27, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 1.0 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

686 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 27, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
A 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members1 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Eckert, Bernard, 
Fry, Keir, and Kelty of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Katz, Reynolds, Bryant, and 
Ruckdeschel of the Division of International 
Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard reviewed developments in the 
Government securities market, Mr. Fry commented upon the perspective 
0 n bank reserve utilization, and Mr. Ruckdeschel discussed foreign 
e*change market developments. Copies of tables distributed in connec-
tion with the foregoing presentations have been placed in the Board's 
files. 

687 
2/27/67 
-45-
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Bakke, 
Brill, Solomon (Adviser), Molony, Fauver, Hackley, Solomon (Examina-
tions), Koch, Sammons, and Fry then withdrew from the meeting and the 
following entered the room: 
Messrs. O'Connell and Forrestal of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Dahl, Egertson, and Maguire of 
the Division of Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. 
Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on February 23, 1967, of 
the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
improved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved letters. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item numbers indicated, were approved 
unanimously following consideration of background material that had 
been made available to the Board: 
Item No. 
Letter to Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, 
1 
New York, New York, approving the establishment 
o f a branch in New Dorp, Borough of Richmond, 
a n d commenting on the bank's liquidity position. 
Letter to Lincoln Rochester Trust Company, 
2 
Rochester, New York, approving the establishment 
a branch in the Town of Hopewell, Ontario 
County, granting an extension of time to estab-
lish a branch in the Town of Perinton, Monroe 
County, and commenting on the bank's capital posi-
tion. 
(The extension of time for the Perinton 
branch had been considered previously at the 
February 1 meeting, and action deferred.) 

688 
2/27/67 
-45-
Item No. 
Letter to Union Trust Company of Maryland, 
3 
Baltimore, Maryland, approving the establish-
ment of a branch in Hillsboro. 
Letter to Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank, 
4 
Flint, Michigan, approving the establishment 
a branch in Burton Township, Genesee County, 
a n d commenting on the bank's capital position. 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
5 
California, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Montelair and a branch at Century 
and Airport Boulevards, Los Angeles, and com-
menting on the bank's capital position. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Invest- 
6 
ment Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to the purchase of stock of a New 
Zealand finance company to be formed by the 
merger of Manufacturers & Retailers Acceptance 
Company and Pacific Factors Limited, both of 
New Zealand. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International Finance 
7 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting con-
sent to the purchase of additional shares of 
M°rgan Grenfell & Co. Limited, London, England. 
Letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
8 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, 
aPproving the establishment of a branch in 
Asuncion, Paraguay. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
9 
Philadelphia approving the payment of salary 
t o the Bank's Medical Director at a specified 
rate. 
In connection with several of the aforementioned items, 
Governor Brimmer suggested that it would be desirable to emphasize in 
t^e letters of approval the fact that the Board expected the applicants 

5 
2/27/67 
-45-
to make efforts to achieve and maintain a satisfactory capital position. 
It was agreed that the letters would be so phrased. 
Governor Shepardson noted that in the case of United California 
there was a history of problems relating to capital adequacy. As 
he understood it, representatives of the San Francisco Reserve Bank 
were to have another conference with officials of the bank to discuss 
capital when the report of the current examination was available, but 
it was not proposed to refer to the capital situation in connection 
W lth approval of the branches. 
Governor Robertson observed that it would appear that the posi-
tion of the Reserve Bank in discussion with the member bank would be 
strengthened by incorporating comments on capital in approving estab-
lishment of the branches. 
He also suggested that the Reserve Bank be 
advised of the Board's concern preparatory to negotiations with the 
Member bank. 
Governor Shepardson noted that the capital position of United 
California Bank had been a matter of recurring concern. While the 
Reserve Bank's proposed discussion regarding this subject might be 
effec tive, he believed that the Board should be prepared to follow 
through with affirmative action if significant results were not 
achieved. 
Mr. Solomon concurred. He noted that the bank had increased 
l ts capital previously, at the urging of the Federal Reserve, to a 

690 
2/27/67 
-5-
level considered generally satisfactory at the time, and that the 
Present capital deficiency represented a redevelopment of the problem 
due to the bank's continued growth. 
The matter was left on the basis that the Division of Examina-
tions would be in touch with the San Francisco Reserve Bank to make 
known the Board's views and that the branch letter would contain refer-
ence to United California Bank's capital position unless the Reserve 
Bank presented some reason to the contrary. 
Messrs. Dahl and Forrestal then withdrew from the meeting and 
Messrs. Kakalec, Controller, and Waller, Supervisory Accountant, Office 
°f the Controller, entered the room. 
Report on competitive factors. 
There had been distributed a 
draft of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
Proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Bank of 
Dayton, Dayton, Kentucky, by The Fort Thomas-Be11evue Bank, Fort 
Thomas, Kentucky. 
Governor Shepardson questioned whether the competitive effect 
the proposed merger would, as stated in the draft report, be adverse, 
his view, taking into account all competitive banking alternatives 
lri the market area, the result would not be significantly adverse. 
Governor Maisel stated that he believed the effect would be 
adverse, although he recognized that this conclusion was dependent to 
some extent upon how the market was defined. 
Taking the communities 

691 
2/27/67 
-6-
°f Bellevue and Dayton as the appropriate banking market, the number 
°f competing banks would be reduced from four to three. 
Governor Brimmer expressed agreement with Governor Maisel's 
Valuation. 
Although he was not convinced that traffic congestion on 
the bridge leading across the Licking River to Covington was quite as 
serious as the Cleveland Reserve Bank had represented in its comments 
0 n the proposed merger, to the extent ready access to Covington was 
hampered this would tend to limit the effective market area. Thus, he 
felt it appropriate to conclude that the effect would be adverse. 
Governor Robertson concurred, and transmittal of the report to 
the Corporation was thereupon authorized in a form in which the follow-
l ng conclusion was stated: 
While numerous alternative banking facilities will 
remain in the area, the proposed purchase of assets and 
assumption of liabilities of Bank of Dayton by The Fort 
Thomas-Bellevue Bank would eliminate a considerable 
amount of existing and potential competition between 
the two institutions. 
The overall competitive effect 
of the proposed transaction would be adverse. 
Messrs. Egertson and Maguire then withdrew from the meeting. 
Regulation of savings and loan holding companies (Item No. 10). 
There had been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
February 24, 1967, regarding a redraft of a legislative proposal by 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to extend and modify the existing 
freeze on the formation and further expansion of savings and loan hold-
l ng companies, and to regulate further the activities of such existing 

692 
2/27/67 
-7-
holding companies. Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter 
t o the Bureau of the Budget responding to a request from that agency 
f°r comment on the redrafted legislation. 
Mr. O'Connell commented that the Board had expressed itself as 
generally favoring earlier drafts of such legislation. The present 
version was substantially the same except that the insurance provisions 
had been tightened, prior approval would be required before the under-
taking of long-term debt obligations, and political contributions were 
forbidden. 
The letter to the Budget Bureau was approved unanimously. A 
CoPy is attached as Item No. 10. 
Emergency lending accommodations (Item No. 11). There had been 
distributed a memorandum from Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board, dated 
February 24, 1967, proposing that the authority to provide emergency 
lending accommodation to nonmember depositary-type institutions in the 
event of extraordinary liquidity pressures, conveyed to the Reserve 
Banks by the Board's letter of July 1, 1966, be allowed to lapse upon 
the March 1, 1967, expiration date. This authority had originally been 
§ranted for a 60-day period from July 1, 1966, and was subsequently 
renewed on two occasions for 90-day periods. 
No loans under this authority had been reported by the Reserve 
^anks, and the liquidity position of nonbank savings institutions ap-
peared to be such that there was no longer the prospect of need for the 

693 
2/27/67 
-45-
authority. The Reserve Bank Presidents had been canvassed, and they 
generally favored termination of the authority. 
Mr. Brill expressed the opinion that the authority could safely 
be allowed to expire at this time. If a future need for its reinstate-
ment arose, that could be done quickly. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the March 1 expiration date 
was indicated in the record of policy actions prepared for the Board's 
1966 Annual Report and had also been referred to in the Chairman's 
testimony before the Joint Economic Committee on February 9. He saw 
need to announce publicly the fact that the authority was being 
terminated, and there was general accord with this view. 
The recommendation contained in Mr. Holland's memorandum was 
thereupon approved unanimously, with the understanding that the Reserve 
Banks would be notified by telegram. A copy of the telegram transmitted 
i s attached as Item No. 11. 
Mr. O'Connell then withdrew from the meeting. 
Budget performance report. There had been distributed a memo-
randum from the Office of the Controller dated February 13, 1967, sub-
mitting a review of performance under the Board's budget for the year 
1966. 
In a discussion of various aspects of the report, Governor 
trimmer commented that a substantial number of position vacancies 
appeared in various categories and that he would like to see greater 

694 
2/27/67 
-9-
efforts made to fill such positions. When the Board authorized those 
positions, it did so on the basis that a genuine need based upon work 
load existed. While he favored economy in operations, he did not like 
to see economy achieved through lack of adequate personnel. 
Mr. Kakalec pointed out that of the vacancies shown, 48 were 
newly-authorized positions in the Division of Data Processing that the 
recruiting schedule called for filling by midyear. Sixteen were in 
the category of temporary summer jobs, and 5 were stenographic recruit 
Positions. The remaining vacancies were fairly evenly spread among 
the divisions. 
Governor Brimmer also commented that in some areas the budget 
estimates for travel varied considerably from the amounts actually 
spent, and he wondered whether more accurate projections might not 
have been possible. Mr. Kakalec replied that the overexpenditures 
were attributable principally to unanticipated international travel. 
Otherwise, actual travel expenses were fairly close to the estimates, 
except in the case of the field examining staff. 
Governor Shepardson commented that the field examining force 
had had a number of vacant positions. Also, several plans projected 
l n connection with training programs for staff members had had to be 
deferred, due in part to staff shortages. 
The report was then accepted. It was noted that although 
Nearly all budget account overexpenditures had been approved before 

695 
2/27/67 
-10-
the end of 1966, several items totaling $32,046 had not been submitted 
for approval prior to that time. Acceptance of the budget performance 
report constituted approval of these remaining overexpenditures. 
Mr. Sammons then withdrew from the meeting. 
Annual audit of financial statements (Item No. 12). There had 
been distributed by the Board's Secretary under date of February 20, 
1967, documents entitled (1) Financial Statements and Accountants1 
Opinion and (2) Report on Scope of Examination of Financial Statements 
submitted by the firm of Haskins Sc Sells in connection with their audit 
°f the Board's accounts for the year ended December 31, 1966. 
The reports were accepted, with the understanding that copies 
would be transmitted to the Chairmen of the Senate and House Banking 
a nd Currency Committees. A copy of one of the transmittal letters is 
attached as Item No. 12. 
Governor Shepardson noted that Haskins & Sells also expected 
111 the near future to submit its report on its review conducted during 
1966 of procedures followed by the Board's staff in examination of the 
Federal Reserve Banks. He stated that the report had been reviewed 
with him in a preliminary way and that he had requested the firm to 
Prepare suggestions on how its review of procedures in 1967 might be 
Revised to make the most effective contribution. 
Governor Shepardson also commented that the audit of the Board's 
accounts for the year ended December 31, 1966, was the fifth such audit 

696 
2/27/67 
-45-
to be conducted by Haskins & Sells, and the review of examining proce-
dures in 1967 would be the fifth such review. In accordance with the 
practice of rotation followed in the past, he assumed the Board would 
wish to select another firm to perform these services. 
In response to an inquiry from Governor Robertson, it was 
stated that Haskins & Sells had been selected at random from a list 
of six prominent public accounting firms not previously used. Governor 
trimmer suggested that it might be desirable to review the list of 
firms at this time for possible additions. Governor Maisel concurred 
in the suggestion for a review of the list. He noted that some public 
accounting firms had recently been criticized for being too lenient 
with respect to certain of their clients' practices. If any such 
firms were on the list, the situation should be studied so that no 
question would be raised about the objectivity of services rendered 
to the Board. 
Following further discussion of possible approaches to selec-
tion of a successor to Haskins & Sells, it was understood that Governor 
Shepardson would study the matter and present recommendations to the 
Board at a later date. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Brill, 
Solomon (Adviser), Molony, Hackley, Koch, and Fry then withdrew from 
the meeting. 

697 
2/27/67 
-45-
Reserve requirements. 
There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated February 24, 1967, in which Governor Robertson proposed a reduc-
tion of one percentage point to the legal minimum (3 per cent) in the 
reserve requirement against savings deposits (and Christmas and vaca-
tion club accounts) and the first $5 million of time deposits at each 
member bank. 
The memorandum pointed out that emerging developments gave 
cumulating evidence of economic slowdown, and there was reason to sus-
Pect that the full impact of the excessive inventory buildup late last 
year was still ahead. The rate of industrial production had declined 
slightly, retail sales had slowed markedly, and there was little evi-
dence that inventories had worked down to more appropriate levels. 
Moreover, new orders for durable goods were being cut sharply. 
Nevertheless, pressures had mounted in financial markets. 
That 
was to have been expected, to some extent, because the decline in inter-
e st rates since last fall had been so rapid as to suggest the likelihood 
°f some temporary technical reaction and because the financing of the 
inventory buildup last year had resulted in a severe drain on corporate 
liquidity. With substantial income tax payments ahead, with many banks 
still in an uncomfortable liquidity position, and with the prime rate 
bank loans still high relative to capital market rates, it was 
logical for corporations to be turning to the capital markets in large 
volume. 

698 
2/27/67 
-45-
The technical upward adjustment in bond yields projected by 
the staff prior to the Open Market Committee meeting on February 7 had 
occurred, but it had persisted longer and gone further than expected 
desired. Bond yields were some 15 to 20 basis points higher than 
at the time of the Committee meeting, and a number of security flota-
tions had not gone well until syndicates were broken and yields were 
adj usted upward. 
A contributing factor to the reversal in bond market behavior 
had been the continuing marked tautness in money markets. In the two 
weeks following the Committee meeting, Treasury bill rates moved up 
some 16 basis points, and Federal funds remained consistently in the 
5 to 5-1/2 per cent range. Market participants had increasingly come 
to the conclusion that the market conditions of early February repre-
sented the Federal Reserve System's "stop-out" point and that the 
interest rate and bank credit availability conditions of early February 
represented the maximum ease the System was prepared to tolerate. 
This money market tightness had persisted despite substantial 
reserve injections by the Trading Desk. Bank credit expansion appeared 
t o be moderately faster than projected prior to the Committee meeting, 
hut loan expansion had not been strong at weekly reporting banks. Ap-
parently banks did not yet feel in a sufficiently comfortable liquidity 
Position to seek and accommodate additional customer demands. Moreover, 
there was the danger that rising yields in capital markets would curtail 

699 
2/27/67 
-45-
inflows to thrift institutions. 
Two large banks had felt it necessary 
to raise CD rates, and there were reports of higher offering rates than 
the posted yields. These developments suggested that a continuing up-
ward trend in security rates could revive the competition of the market 
against thrift institutions, with damaging effect on institutional 
ability to finance a revival in housing activity. 
Governor Robertson suggested in his memorandum that in view of 
the continued weakening in economic activity and prospects, and a return 
to some degree of stringency in financial markets and financial expec-
tations, it would seem appropriate for the Federal Reserve to provide 
an overt signal to the financial community of its intention to restore 
a t least the more comfortable credit conditions of early February, and 
Preferably to create such anticipations of further ease as would encour-
age lenders and investors to enter financial markets more vigorously. 
However, a mere signal would not be enough. Any action would have to 
he backed by a providing of reserves in sufficient volume to overcome 
normal seasonal requirements and also bring money market rates down to 
the point where the flow of CD's into commercial banks was revived and 
the threat of deposit losses at thrift institutions was removed. 
The memorandum brought out that in coming weeks rate relation-
ships could be restored by open market operations to such a point as 
to suggest the desirability of reducing the discount rate. 
But giving 
a signal through lowering the discount rate would be a rather empty 
gesture until the cost of other adjustment techniques, for example, 

700 
2/27/67 
-15-
Federal fund rates and bill rates, was substantially lower than at 
present. A reduction in reserve requirements would have the desired 
signal effect. At the same time, if supported by appropriate open 
market operations, it would provide the reserve volume needed to back 
UP the signal. 
As to the form of reserve requirement reduction that would be 
optimal, Governor Robertson indicated that while he had long supported 
a graduated reserve requirement system, this did not seem an opportune 
time to move overtly in that direction. 
The Board's legislative pro-
posal that would apply a graduated reserve system to all banks was 
about to be forwarded to the Congress, and it would seem inappropriate 
for the Board to act unilaterally. 
However, it would be possible to 
maximize the release of reserves among smaller banks without overtly 
adopting a graduated plan. A reduction of reserve requirements against 
savings deposits (and the first $5 million of time deposits) would 
appear to offer the best potential for utilizing released reserves in 
the financing of construction. 
A reduction to 3 per cent would release about $850 million of 
reserves, over half to smaller banks, mostly country banks. 
Another 
quarter of the reserves released would be to large banks just below 
the top rank of the industry. 
These large and small banks together 
accounted for about three-fourths of the real estate loans and State 
aru* local securities held by member banks, but less than three-fifths 

701 
2/27/67 
-45-
°f the business loans outstanding. 
From June 1965 to June 1966 those 
banks added more rapidly to their real estate loans than the largest 
banks, and they continued to expand their municipal portfolios. More-
over, small banks accounted for half of the rise shown by all member 
banks in real estate loans over that period and three-fourths of the 
rise in portfolios of State and local securities, but less than one-
fifth of the rise in business loans. Thus, a release of reserves 
°riented toward smaller banks would be more likely to encourage financ-
ing of construction and of State and local needs than a plan that 
released more reserves to the largest banks; for example, if the Board 
retraced its steps of last summer increasing the reserve requirements 
against time deposits above $5 million at each member bank. 
An additional argument for focusing a reserve requirement reduc-
tion on the savings deposit area was that such deposits had been the 
area of most persistent deposit attrition in recent months, largely 
because of the 4 per cent interest rate ceiling. 
The Board had deemed 
it unwise to raise that ceiling because of the risk of further competi-
tive interest rate escalation among institutions with passbook-type 
savings. 
Governor Robertson recognized in making his recommendation 
that the move would widen the spread in reserve requirements against 
different classes of deposits. A movement toward equality had some 
merit as a long-run principle, but he believed the advantages tended 

702 
2/27/67 
-17-
to be overstated. 
Influence over the deposit mix was much greater 
through control of maximum permissible interest rates, and with the 
flexible authority granted by Congress last year he did not believe it 
was necessary to depend on reserve requirement changes to achieve an 
appropriate deposit structure. Nor did he believe that in the short 
run shifts among deposit classes created insuperable problems for the 
management of the Open Market Account. 
In his opinion the action he 
recommended appeared on balance to meet the needs of the moment most 
satisfactorily. 
Prompt action was urged in view of the accumulating 
market sentiment that resulted in lenders hanging back and borrowers 
Pressing to finance in expectation of further market tightening. 
As to timing, Governor Robertson pointed out that substantial 
reserve injections would be needed on seasonal grounds. 
The proposed 
action could be made effective at country banks for the reserve period 
beginning March 2, releasing about $490 million of reserves. 
If the 
reserve needs for the week beginning March 2 remained as large as now 
Projected ($785 million), the entire reserve release could be made 
effective as of that date. However, if Desk operations and other 
factors resulted in a smoothing out of the fluctuations in reserve 
needs, the plan could be introduced in two steps and made effective 
a t reserve city banks on March 9. 
Governor Robertson began the discussion at this meeting by 
referring to the distributed memorandum and expressing the opinion that 

703 
2/27/67 
-18-
there was need for some overt action to offset the psychological atti-
tude prevailing at the moment in terms of where interest rates were 
going. The question was what kind of overt action would be preferable. 
A number of possibilities had been considered, as discussed in the 
memorandum, and the proposal to reduce reserve requirements against 
savings deposits and the first $5 million of time deposits seemed the 
most attractive. 
Such action would provide overt indication of a 
desire to return at least to the situation that prevailed two weeks 
ago and thus set the proper tone for monetary policy. 
The reserves 
released would amount to about $850 million, and the reserve require-
ment reduction could be made in two stages, the first part effective 
March 2 and the second part effective the next week. 
Through such action, Governor Robertson felt that the Board 
could accomplish everything that needed to be accomplished at this 
time. Reserve requirements would be reduced against the kinds of 
deposits that today were subject to the least degree of turnover. 
Be-
cause of the interest rate ceiling on savings accounts, those accounts 
were more and more coming to be phlegmatic in character--much different 
from the large denomination CD's. A substantial part of the reserves 
released would go to those banks that in the past had done more than 
their share in channeling funds into the mortgage market. The reserves 
w°uld not be released primarily to those banks most likely to return 
funds to their overseas branches, with adverse effect on the international 

20 
2/27/67 
-45-
payments position. Another reason for reducing requirements against 
savings deposits, instead of demand deposits, was that a reduction 
against the latter at the very time the Board was sending to the Con-
gress a proposal for graduated reserve requirements might diminish the 
chances of obtaining such legislation. Consequently, although good 
arguments could be made for a reduction in reserve requirements against 
demand deposits, he had concluded that it would be preferable to take 
action in respect to savings deposits. 
There was also the possibility, Governor Robertson noted, of 
taking action on the discount rate. However, he thought such action 
would not be appropriate at this time, especially in view of the recent 
backing up of interest rates. Discount rate action would be taken as 
an indication that the Board was interested mainly in the commercial 
bank prime rate. 
If the discount rate were reduced by one-half a 
percentage point, which would be more in keeping with current conditions 
than a lesser reduction, the discount rate would then be out of line 
with present market rates. 
Still another possibility would be to reverse the actions taken 
last year increasing from 4 to 6 per cent the reserve requirement against 
time deposits above $5 million. 
In his opinion such a move would not 
be advisable; it would provide reserves to those banks chiefly making 
business loans. Such action would also release reserves to banks that 
Would be likely to use them to return funds to their foreign branches. 

21 
2/27/67 
-45-
The net effect of the recommended proposal, Governor Robertson 
said, would be to indicate the shape of the future with regard to 
interest rates in general. 
It would have a downward impact on market 
rates, which in turn would make CD's easier to sell and thus eliminate 
some of the problems that had arisen during the past few weeks with 
respect to CD's. Some banks had moved up their posted CD rates, and 
other banks had moved in that direction without any publicity. 
Governor Robertson went on to say that if the Board decided to 
take action, it should do so promptly, that is, today or tomorrow, in 
order to make the first reduction effective March 2, which was the 
beginning of a reserve computation period. The Federal Reserve would 
have to provide reserves during that week in even larger amount than 
the volume of about $490 million that would be released by the first 
Part of the reserve requirement move. 
Governor Robertson said he was not fully familiar with the 
extent of the Treasury's immediate problem imposed by the Federal debt 
ceiling. The proposed move on reserve requirements obviously should be 
discussed with the Treasury and be geared into its operations. 
Also, 
the Board should communicate with the Reserve Bank Presidents so they 
w°uld know what was planned. 
The reserve requirement action also would 
have to be geared into open market operations and not be offset by the 
latter. 

7QG 
2/27/67 
-21-
Governor Robertson went on to say that the Open Market Commit-
tee, at its February 7 meeting, had contemplated a very different 
situation from the one that presently existed. 
It had then called for 
operations with a view to maintaining prevailing conditions of ease in 
the money market, modified if necessary to moderate any apparent signif-
icant deviation in bank credit from expectations. 
Since the date of 
that meeting money market conditions had tightened almost across the 
board. 
Governor Robertson concluded by suggesting that the Board next 
have a discussion with the Reserve Bank Presidents. 
Mr. Brill reported advice from the Open Market Account Manager 
that the market had opened well this morning, with coupon security prices 
higher and bill rates moving down. Aggressive bidding in the bill 
Action was indicated, and the New York City banks seemed to be in a 
comfortable position. 
Perhaps this atmosphere reflected a combination 
the positive free reserve number announced for the past statement 
Week and the operations of the Desk last Friday, partly for System 
Account and partly for the Treasury. This combination of events might 
be changing market expectations. 
As to prospective Treasury operations, Mr. Brill said the 
Manager thought the information he had received from the Treasury over-
rated the situation. However, if it did reflect accurately what the 
treasury would be doing in the period ahead, there might be a problem 

70? 
2/27/67 
-22-
in terms of reserve availability. At the moment it appeared that the 
Treasury was planning to supply reserves amounting to $220 million in 
the week beginning March 2. Governor Robertson's memorandum had indi-
cated a need to supply reserves during that period in the amount of 
$785 million, but that was now reduced to $582 million on the basis of 
•operations undertaken by the Desk last Friday. Any further Desk opera-
tions conducted during the remainder of the current statement week 
would cut down the need for supplying reserves during the week of 
March 2. For the week of March 9 the Treasury was talking about opera-
tions that would supply $900 million of reserves. Mr. Holmes thought 
those operations actually might be closer to $500 million, but it was 
clear that between now and mid-March the Treasury would have to engage 
in various operations until it obtained the proceeds of tax anticipa-
tion bills. That might put the Account Manager on the selling side 
xf reserves were provided also through a reduction of reserve require-
ments. 
If the Manager did nothing, that might expand credit more than 
the Manager would consider permissible under the Open Market Committee's 
directive. 
Mr. Brill went on to say that the bank credit proxy had moved 
UP from earlier estimates. 
Although the increase was not sensational, 
x t was greater than projected at the time of the last meeting of the 
°Pen Market Committee. 
The Account Manager might feel that that was 
some constraint. 
If the reserve requirement action was taken and the 

708 
2/27/67 
-23-
Treasury conducted all of the activities discussed with the Manager, 
the Manager might feel constrained to take some offsetting action. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether, if reserve requirement action 
was not taken tomorrow, it would be felt that in view of the Treasury's 
call for bids on the tax anticipation bills the Board would be precluded 
from taking such action for several weeks thereafter out of even-keel 
considerations. 
Mr. Brill replied that he supposed there might be such a feel-
ing. 
Governor Maisel then commented that the real question appeared 
to be whether the Federal Reserve would want to make an overt move, 
but without any reserve effects, and Mr. Brill replied that if an 
action was taken that had significant effects the Open Market Committee 
might want to consider whether its current directive could stand. 
When Governor Maisel pointed out that the Committee would be 
meeting again on March 7, Mr. Brill commented that the first part of 
the reserve requirement reduction would take effect the week of March 2. 
Governor Maisel asked for further information about the impact 
the presumed Treasury activities, and Mr. Brill said that if the 
reserve estimates were right, if the Treasury supplied $220 million, 
and if the Board made the first part of the reserve requirement reduc-
tion effective, the total effect would be to supply more reserves in 

709 
2/27/67 
-45-
the week of March 2 than the staff was currently estimating to be 
needed--to the extent of perhaps $150 to $200 million. 
Governor Brimmer asked what actions the Treasury was planning, 
and Mr. Brill said they reportedly were planning to draw their balance 
down completely and borrow from the Federal Reserve. 
However, the 
Manager had not discussed the full details. 
Chairman Martin asked Mr. Brill about the Manager's reaction 
to the reserve requirement proposal, and Mr. Brill said the Manager 
was rather concerned about the effect on open market operations of any 
reserve requirement action. 
The Manager's operations were conditioned 
uPon his interpretation of the Open Market Committee's directive. 
If 
he felt that a particular action was going to result in greater reserve 
expansion than the directive implied, he might want to have the Open 
Market Committee hold a telephone conference meeting and change the 
directive. 
In a further comment on the Manager's position, Mr. Brill said 
Mr. Holmes had the feeling that what the Treasury decided to do and 
what the Board decided to do should affect the System's bid in the bill 
Action this morning. Therefore, the Manager would be interested in 
a ny reaction that could be given to him on the basis of today's Board 
discussion. The Manager might try to run off some bills this week, and 
next week also. 

710 
2/27/67 
-25-
At the request of the Board there followed further comments by 
Messrs. Brill and Fry on the reserve projections. Mr. Brill repeated 
that the Treasury apparently would operate in the week beginning March 2 
so as to supply an estimated $220 million of reserves. According to 
their estimate they would be supplying $900 million in the following 
week, although the Manager expected the figure might be closer to $500 
million. 
The situation would be reversed the following week (beginning 
March 16) after the Treasury received the proceeds of sale of tax antici-
pation bills. 
Chairman Martin inquired what would be the next feasible time 
for reserve requirement action if it were not taken now, and Mr. Brill 
replied that staff reserve projections had not yet been run through 
April. However, it appeared that there would be a favorable opportu-
nity then. 
Governor Brimmer then asked for confirmation of his understand-
ing that if the Board did not take action this week there would be no 
other suitable time in the near future, and Mr. Brill said that there 
would not, according to the reserve patterns. He was not sure how soon 
the Treasury would come in with an announcement of sale of participation 
certificates. 
If it did, that might lock the System in because of even-
keel considerations. However, the immediate obstacle was the reserve 
Pattern, which would not get much more favorable until April. 

71 
2/27/67 
-26-
Governor Brimmer inquired if there was any reason to believe 
that the forecast of $1.5 billion for corporate demands in the bond 
market in March was not accurate, and Mr. Brill said that each day 
new issues were being announced. Underwriters indicated that corpora-
tions were moving in fast before rates moved up further. 
Governor Robertson observed that the demand might be lessened 
if the System were to take an overt easing action, and Mr. Brill said 
that such action definitely should calm the situation down. According 
to one banker with whom he had talked, a lot of loan demand was defi-
nitely postponable. 
Governor Robertson recalled that the consensus at the meeting 
°f the Conference of Business Economists with the Board last Friday 
was that the need existed for an easing action. 
Governor Brimmer said he had received a telephone call from 
Governor Daane, who had had conversations over the weekend similar to 
the one to which Mr. Brill had just referred. A knowledgeable under-
writer had told Governor Daane that the pipeline of corporate issues 
Was growing and that the $1.5 billion estimate for March might be too 
low. 
Mr. Solomon, whose comments were invited by the Chairman at 
this point, said his reservation about the proposal to lower reserve 
requirements against savings deposits related to the question whether 
action that would widen even further the differential between the 

712 
2/27/67 
-45-
requirements against savings and demand deposits would be in the best 
interests of the Federal Reserve over the longer run. The discussion 
this morning indicated to him that the need was more for a signal than 
a reserve-supplying action. He agreed that there was need to change 
market expectations, and he did not hold his reservation so strongly 
as to urge that no action be taken at all. If there was another reason-
able way of providing a signal, he thought that would be preferable. If 
there was not, he would withdraw his reservation. 
Asked by Governor Shepardson for further explanation of his 
views, Mr. Solomon said that in the long run even the present differen-
tial between the requirements against time and savings deposits did not 
make much sense from the standpoint of credit policy. There was good 
reason last summer for increasing the requirement against time deposits, 
and there were good reasons for not wanting to reverse now. But the 
main job of the System was to try to regulate the rate of bank credit 
exPansion. Reserve requirements were based on deposits rather than 
assets, and in the long run it would make more sense to have the require-
ments against time and demand deposits closer together. There was more 
looseness in the relationships between the supplying of reserves and the 
growth of bank credit than there needed to be, and the System would have 
a more certain result from the instruments at its disposal if there were 
n°t such wide differentials. However, this long-term structural argument 
should not inhibit the Board from trying to change present market expec-
tations . 

713 
2/27/67 
-45-
Chairman Martin suggested being careful about the element of 
expectations. 
In his opinion the Board should not change reserve 
requirements simply as an overt signal if that was not a sound move to 
wake. Apparently there had been some change in expectations already 
the basis of the Desk's operations. 
If the Manager continued such 
operations, he could affect expectations further. As he (Chairman 
Martin) saw it, the real question was availability of reserves. He 
would like to have more made available. 
Governor Maisel said he had thought earlier that a move in a 
limited way toward graduated reserve requirements would be preferable. 
Thinking about it more, however, he felt that a reducing of the reserve 
requirement against savings deposits could be justified. 
It should 
stimulate advertising by member banks in an effort to promote the 
growth of savings accounts because such accounts would now be more 
Profitable for them. 
Mr. Brill said he had been pleased at the recent turn in the 
market. 
It did not rule out the notion of the Board taking some action. 
In fact, he had been hoping that such a turn would occur before it 
became necessary to do something. 
If the Board had moved during the 
Past two weeks, that might have looked like an act of desperation, but 
the fact that the market seemed to have taken a turn Friday and this 
horning removed any such stigma. 
Thus, a reservation he had entertained 
about acting earlier had been removed by recent developments. 
In terms 

714 
2/27/67 
-29-
°f reserve availability, the only new factor had to do with what the 
Treasury was planning. 
The combination of Board and Treasury actions 
could inject more reserves and provide a faster expansion in bank 
credit than the Open Market Committee directive suggested. 
However, 
!t was only a week until the next Committee meeting. If the Board took 
action that released reserves at the smaller banks, the only variable 
to change significantly during the week of March 2 might be country 
bank excess reserves. 
The Manager was not convinced, however, that 
the released reserves would remain as excess reserves very long. 
Governor Maisel then suggested that the first half of the one 
Percentage point reserve requirement reduction might be made effective 
March 2 and the second half effective March 16. Treasury operations 
would apparently be dominant in the week of the 9th, but presumably the 
System would want to inject reserves during the week of the 16th. 
Mr. Brill said that offhand he could see no objection, and 
Governor Robertson commented that Governor Maisel's proposal would 
seem to be a good idea in view of the near certainty that the Treasury 
Would be reversing its reserve-supplying position during the week of 
the 16th. 
Chairman Martin repeated that it was not the matter of giving 
a signal in which he was interested primarily; instead, it was the 
matter of supplying reserves. 
Signals, he pointed out, are not funda-
mental; they tend to come and go. Therefore, the System should aim 

715 
2/27/67 
-45-
primarily at the goal of supplying some additional reserves. 
The ques-
tion was the best way in which to proceed. 
If the reserve requirement 
proposal was not clearly a good way, the Board should consider that 
question, particularly in light of the points made by Mr. Solomon. 
However, he (Chairman Martin) would like to see some funds flowing into 
the market. His question was how best to accomplish that objective. 
Governor Brimmer said he shared the Chairman's view with regard 
to the desirability of supplying reserves. 
He would hope they were 
Supplied in such a way that they would stay in the market. The Treasury 
would be in and out, which was a disturbing factor. 
The reserves were 
required, and the Board should do something soon rather than later. If 
the Board could not again consider reserve requirement action for 
another month, that pointed in the direction of taking action now rather 
than waiting. 
If, as a by-product, the action produced a signal, that 
also would be helpful. 
It would likewise be helpful to stretch out 
somewhat the borrowing by corporations in the capital market. 
Thus, 
the whole pattern seemed appropriate. 
He recognized the points made 
by Mr. Solomon. 
However, Mr. Solomon had said he did not want to inhibit 
fche Board from taking action, and he (Governor Brimmer) accepted that 
statement at face value. 
Governor Shepardson expressed the view that if the Board wanted 
t o use the reserve requirement instrument at this time the proposal to 
reduce requirements against savings deposits and the first $5 million 

716 
2/27/67 
-45-
of time deposits was the preferable approach. He went on to say that 
at the last Open Market Committee meeting he had been concerned about 
trying to hold at the point the directive indicated. However, the 
situation had not held, and it should be corrected. He rather hoped 
that the change reported by Mr. Brill over the weekend and further 
operations of the Desk could meet the problem, and that reserve require-
ment action would not be necessary at this time. However, he agreed 
that something needed to be done to change the current psychological 
attitudes. This might be a reasonable way, although he was inclined 
to feel that anything necessary probably could be accomplished through 
additional open market operations. 
Governor Brimmer reported at this point the views that Governor 
Daane had expressed by telephone. Governor Daane recognized that it 
would be inappropriate for him to express his sentiments in terms of 
a vote because of his being absent. However, he wanted the record to 
show that he favored some action of this sort. He had not seen the 
details of the various alternatives so he could not comment explicitly. 
However, in view of the difficulties the Desk had faced in recent weeks 
(and he was aware of the outcome on Friday), Governor Daane felt that 
something of this sort was necessary. 
Chairman Martin inquired about Governor Mitchell's situation, 
and Governor Robertson said that Governor Mitchell was expected back 
Washington tomorrow morning. Chairman Martin then inquired as to 

717 
2/27/67 
-45-
the latest time the Board could act if it wanted to make the first part 
°f an action on reserve requirements effective March 2, and Governor 
Robertson replied that the Board would have to make an announcement 
tomorrow afternoon about 4:00 p.m. He noted that the text of a possible 
Press release had been prepared in rough draft form. 
Governor Brimmer suggested the desirability of conferring with 
the Reserve Bank Presidents promptly and asked whether it would not be 
helpful to discuss the matter with them today. 
Governor Robertson agreed and suggested a discussion with the 
Presidents this afternoon with a view to the Board's taking action 
tomorrow. 
In further discussion Mr. Solomon commented that if the Board 
took the contemplated action and the Treasury also put funds into the 
market as projected, the Account Manager might find it necessary to 
absorb reserves because the free reserve figure would look too large. 
Thus, the System might be pulling funds out of the money market while 
country bank reserves were increased. The effect would be to put 
unwanted upward pressure on bill rates. A delicate maneuver would 
have to be executed in terms of reserve needs, free reserve figures, 
and open market operations. 
If a reduction in reserves required 
against savings deposits was simply offset by open market operations, 
n°thing would appear to be gained. 

718 
2/27/67 
-45-
Governor Maisel said there would appear to him to be no great 
concern about the week of March 2, and the Open Market Committee would 
meet before any other action had to be taken. He saw a real advantage 
in taking action now, for the Open Market Committee should then be 
able to have a more meaningful discussion and produce a better direc-
tive than otherwise. 
Mr. Brill said he had discussed with Mr. Holmes the latter's 
reaction to a large positive free reserve number. Mr. Holmes did not 
seem to think that would be as troublesome as if the excess reserves 
were put to use; he was more concerned about rapid growth in the bank 
credit proxy. 
In view of the way in which the Open Market Committee's 
directive was phrased, Mr. Holmes had the feeling that too rapid a 
growth in the proxy was more important as a guide to his operations 
than a large free reserve number. 
Mr. Brill also said that, even taking into account what had 
occurred Friday and this morning, he felt there was room for further 
rate declines to get back to the conditions described in the directive 
issued on February 7. Municipal yields were still 20 basis points 
above the level at that time. He did not think there was much problem 
from an operational standpoint if all that was done was to supply 
through Desk operations, Treasury operations, and a reduction of reserve 
requirements the amount of reserves, give or take $100 million, that 
the Desk would otherwise have had to supply anyway through open market 
derations. 

35 
2/27/67 
-45-
Mr. Koch re-entered the room at this point and reported briefly 
on market conditions as described in the morning open market telephone 
conference call. Conditions were quite comfortable and calm; there had 
been little news of significance over the weekend. 
Bill rates were 1 
to 5 basis points lower, and the outlook was for a somewhat lower rate 
in this week's bill auction. 
The stock market had broken sharply in 
the first hour of trading. 
The Federal funds market was reasonably 
easy, with funds trading at 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 per cent. Basic reserve 
Positions of the major banks were reasonably comfortable. The Desk 
proposed to make repurchase agreements if there were any signs of 
tightening. 
It would presumably redeem part of the System's holdings 
of maturing Treasury bills if informed of the trend of today's Board 
discussion. 
Governor Maisel said he thought it would be useful to have a 
telephone meeting with the Presidents this afternoon and that, depend-
ing on the results of the conversation, the Board should move ahead 
with the reduction of reserve requirements. 
Chairman Martin indicated that he also would be inclined to 
favor such a procedure. 
The problem was one of working the procedures 
out satisfactorily in such a short period of time. He inquired whether 
there was any feeling that the Account Manager should be invited to 
meet with the Board tomorrow morning and whether there should be any 
conversation with a member of the Council of Economic Advisers. 

720 
2/27/67 
-45-
Governor Brimmer suggested that Mr. Brill be requested to talk 
with Mr. Duesenberry of the Council, and the Chairman said that that 
was what he had had in mind. Governor Brimmer then suggested that the 
telephone meeting with the Presidents be held late enough this after-
noon so that that the results of trading activities for the day would 
be available, and that Mr. Holmes be invited to participate in the 
meeting. 
It was also noted that Chairman Martin and Vice Chairman 
Robertson would be going to the Treasury for the usual Monday luncheon 
today. Mr. Brill was requested to talk with Mr. Duesenberry, and it 
was agreed that a telephone meeting with the Presidents would be held 
a t 3:00 p.m., with Mr. Holmes invited to participate. 
Chairman Martin repeated his earlier comment that he would like 
the System to be in the posture of supplying reserves. 
If it was only 
the giving of a signal that was to be emphasized, something could be 
said for reversing the time deposit actions taken by the Board last 
summer. 
In general, whenever the System was given the opportunity, he 
would favor a move toward lower reserve requirements. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
3:00 p.m. with all of the members of the Board except Governors Mitchell 
and Daane present in the Board Room. Members of the staff in the Board 
Room included Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Broida, Brill, Molony, Fauver, 
Hackley, Koch, and Fry. 

721 
2/27/67 
-45-
A telephone conference meeting was held with the available 
Federal Reserve Bank Presidents, and Governor Mitchell also participated 
from Dallas in the first part of the meeting. The Reserve Bank Presi-
dents who participated were Messrs. Hayes, Hickman, Wayne, Patterson, 
Scanlon, Francis, Galusha, Clay, Irons, and Swan. First Vice President 
Latham of the Boston Bank participated in the first part of the confer-
ence from Atlanta, and Mr. Eisenmenger of the Boston Bank was on the 
line from Boston. Vice President Vergari of the Philadelphia Bank 
Participated from Philadelphia, as did Mr. Holland of the Board's staff. 
Mr. Holmes, Manager of the System Open Market Account, participated 
from New York. Some of the Presidents also had their principal economic 
advisers with them. 
Chairman Martin said that this telephone conference meeting had 
been arranged to discuss a proposal that the Board take action on 
reserve requirements tomorrow afternoon. Specifically the proposal was 
t o reduce the requirement against savings deposits and the first $5 
million of time deposits at each member bank by a full percentage 
P°int, the first half of the reduction to be effective March 2 and the 
Second half effective March 16. In total, that would release about 
$850 million of required reserves. Such action apparently could be 
fitted in satisfactorily with prospective Treasury operations. 
The Board had given some thought to the alternative possibility 
°f reversing last year's increases on required reserves against time 

722 
2/27/67 
-45-
deposits above $5 million, Chairman Martin said, but upon reflection 
the current proposal seemed to represent a preferable move. 
It should 
stimulate the growth of savings accounts and channel credit into the 
housing market. 
Generally speaking, the Chairman continued, business statistics 
were pointing downward at the moment, and the proposed move would fur-
ther the System's posture of doing what it could to adjust monetary 
Policy promptly to changes in the economy. The question of reducing 
reserve requirements was of course a matter for Board decision, but 
the Board would like to have the comments of the Presidents. 
The Chairman then suggested a go-around of the Presidents 
beginning with Mr. Hayes, who said that the proposal came as something 
of a surprise to him. He would like to raise a few questions, not in 
a spirit of antagonism but in an attitude of skepticism regarding the 
specific proposal. 
First, he wondered whether or not the intent was 
to make an overt easing move. 
If it was, he raised the question 
whether that had to be done in advance of the Open Market Committee 
meeting, at which it was customary to go over the details of the out-
look so as to judge whether an overt easing move would be desirable or 
n°t. 
In the absence of some emergency, that would appear to be the 
orderly procedure, and he could see nothing very urgent about the pro-
Posed action. The action apparently could be made effective March 16 
just as well as under the suggested time schedule. 

723 
2/27/67 
-45-
Perhaps, President Hayes said, some of the feeling in favor of 
the action reflected concern about interest rate movements in the past 
couple weeks. He might share some of that concern except for the fact 
that in the past few days there had been a reversal and the market had 
eased quite a bit. A positive free reserve figure had been announced 
last week, and it did not seem necessary to be unduly concerned about 
the money market atmosphere. As to the general business situation, the 
Picture was decidedly mixed. 
Some sectors admittedly were weakening, 
but the latest McGraw-Hill survey of planned capital expenditures pro-
duced stronger figures than earlier. At a recent meeting with a group 
°f businessmen, all of them stressed the scarcity of labor. 
The credit proxy figures had recently been extremely strong, 
Pre sident Hayes added, and demands were strong in the capital markets. 
He saw some danger of misleading the market by a deliberate easing move 
that was out of touch with economic prospects. All of his points, he 
repeated, were raised principally in the spirit of inquiry. 
Chairman Martin responded that there was no intention to move 
ahead of the Open Market Committee meeting in the absence of good cause. 
Mr. Hayes had suggested, the Board might wait until the statement 
week of March 16. However, action now would fit in better with the 
over-all program if it was assumed that a downward trend in the economy 
was under way. 
If that was correct, action now might make it easier 
f°r the System later. That involved a matter of judgment, but it was a 
consideration the Board had in mind. 

724 
2/27/67 
-39-
President Hickman said that, apart from the question whether 
°r not the System wished to ease monetary policy further, the System 
apparently would have to inject a substantial amount of reserves into 
the market in some fashion in the reserve week ending March 8. The 
reserve requirement action would be one way of doing that, at least in 
Part. Thus, this would probably be quite a good time to take the 
reserve requirement action if that was a desirable move in its own 
right. It would simply be one way of providing needed reserves. 
There had been a good deal of backtracking since the last Open 
Market Committee meeting, President Hickman observed. 
The kind of rate 
structure the Committee had had in mind had not been maintained, and 
the economic situation had deteriorated in terms of published statistics. 
While the Committee had anticipated those statistics, now that they had 
been published there was further reason to make a move in the direction 
°f less restraint. 
Beyond that there was the matter of bank relation-
ships. 
Banks in the Fourth District were somewhat upset concerning the 
new Treasury savings bond announcement and the possible effect on pass-
hook savings. 
The reserve requirement reduction would put the banks 
111 a little better competitive position. 
Governor Mitchell commented at this point that he had to leave 
the Dallas airport and raised the question whether the Board was 
Planning to take action today. When Chairman Martin replied that the 
B°ard had in mind taking action tomorrow afternoon, Governor Mitchell 

2/27/67 
-40-
said he was not sure at this point whether he would favor going quite 
as far as the current proposal contemplated. He would like to consider 
the matter further, for he had been thinking in terms of a move of per-
haps half the suggested magnitude. Chairman Martin said the Board 
would bear that comment in mind and would be glad to have Governor 
Mitchell's further views tomorrow following the latter's return to 
Washington. 
President Hayes noted that a feeling had existed for some time 
that a move toward graduated reserve requirements on demand deposits 
would be useful. He would be somewhat reluctant to see a move made on 
reserve requirements if it did not represent a step in the direction 
°f accomplishing that useful long-range objective. 
Chairman Martin said that that question had been discussed by 
the Board. However, it was felt that with graduated reserve require-
ment legislation being recommended in the Board's Annual Report to the 
Congress, which would be issued shortly, as well as in letters to the 
Chairmen of Congressional Committees, a limited move toward graduated 
reserve requirements at this juncture would jeopardize the prospect of 
ultimate success in obtaining such legislation. 
President Wayne, who had been participating in the morning 
conference calls for the past several weeks, said that he would favor 
the proposed action on reserve requirements. The market situation had 
n°t reflected the atmosphere that he thought the Open Market Committee 

726 
2/27/67 
-45-
intended or desired at its last meeting. He shared some of the concern 
of Mr. Hayes that the System not give the market an improper indication 
of how far the System expected to go. At the same time, the estimates 
indicated that the System would have to inject a substantial amount of 
reserves over the next several weeks. He would welcome the reserve 
requirement reduction as a means of making reserves available in lieu 
of further additions to the System Account portfolio, which he regretted 
to see growing so fast. There would also be some advantage from the 
standpoint of bank relations. Altogether, he would consider the pro-
posal preferable to adding further to the System Account portfolio. 
President Patterson said he agreed with Presidents Hickman and 
W ayne for the reasons they had stated. 
President Scanlon indicated that he had some sympathy for the 
concerns expressed by President Hayes. On balance, however, he agreed 
with those who would favor supplying needed reserves in this fashion. 
President Francis observed that, despite the rather large 
increase in System portfolio holdings recently, he had had the feeling 
that some further injection of reserves would be highly desirable in 
view of what was developing in the general business sector. 
Accordingly, 
he would favor the suggested reduction in reserve requirements. 
President Galusha expressed himself as wholeheartedly in favor 
°f the contemplated move and said he had no reservations. 

727 
2/27/67 
-42-
President Clay also said that he was very much in favor of it, 
both from the standpoint of timing and from the standpoint of bank 
relationships. 
President Irons indicated that he shared some of the misgivings 
o f President Hayes regarding the contemplated action. On balance, 
though, he would favor the action. 
It was necessary to supply reserves 
and the proposed reduction of reserve requirements might have some 
advantages as compared with alternatives. 
President Swan said he was definitely in favor of the move, 
tte thought it was a reasonable approach, particularly since a reduction 
o f the reserve requirement against savings deposits should be helpful 
l n terms of the housing situation. 
It seemed to him that this was an 
aPpropriate time to act and that a move such as contemplated would 
mmimize the kind of criticism that had come up in the past with regard 
to reserve requirement changes. 
Vice President Vergari commented that the proposed move seemed 
aPpropriate. 
If the reserves were needed, this seemed to be a good 
Procedure. 
It would have some advantage in terms of bank relationships 
addition to providing needed funds. 
Mr. Holmes remarked that estimates of the past day or so were 
going to have to be revised substantially because of the likelihood, 
acc°rding to the latest information from the Treasury, that the Trea-
Sury would have to borrow from the Federal Reserve. After reviewing 
the estimates, and making allowance for prospective Treasury operations 

728 
2/27/67 
-45-
and the proposed move on reserve requirements, he said that the situa-
tion probably would be manageable. Although it would be necessary to 
play by ear during the forthcoming period, on balance he felt that the 
proposed reserve requirement move would fit in fairly well with reserve 
needs as predicted at this time, recognizing that there would be some 
problems during at least one of the statement weeks ahead. 
Chairman Martin stated that he and Governor Robertson had dis-
cussed the proposition with Messrs. Barr, Deming, and Sternlight of 
the Treasury at luncheon today. He went on to say that Mr. Holmes 
should feel free to talk with the Treasury about fitting together the 
operations of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve. 
Mr. Holmes replied that he would do so. He noted that current 
estimates were uncertain and said it was his view that the Treasury 
might not need to operate in the magnitudes currently indicated. 
President Hickman raised the question whether the proposed move 
was designed as a way of supplying reserves that would have to be pro-
vided anyway through open market operations or whether it represented 
a decision at this time to ease monetary policy further. 
Chairman Martin replied that the action would indicate a desire 
to move further in the direction of ease, even though it might not be 
specifically directed toward that end. There could be a full discussion 
°f that point at the Open Market Committee meeting next Tuesday. 

729 
2/27/67 
-45-
President Swan noted that, regardless of the arithmetic, the 
move would be interpreted as Chairman Martin had indicated, to which 
the latter replied that he thought there was no question on that score. 
President Francis said he thought interpretation of the action 
as an indication of a move toward further ease would be desirable, fol-
lowing which President Hayes said he had some reservations for that 
particular reason, although they were not strong enough to enter a 
firm objection. 
Chairman Martin concluded the meeting with the comment that the 
proposed move should not, of course, be discussed with others at this 
time. He said the Board would consider the proposal further tomorrow, 
with the probability of acting tomorrow afternoon and issuing a press 
statement, and that the Presidents would be kept informed. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (copy attached as 
Item No. 13) approving the appointment of Thomas P. McAlea as assistant 
examiner and the appointment of Julius A. Nicolai and John J. Sweeney 
as examiners. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointment 
Sandra Lee Wolfe Connor as Secretary, Division of Examinations, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,867, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 

730 
2/27/67 
-45-
Appointments 
Lis ton M. Grider as Federal Reserve Examiner, Division of Examina-
tions, with basic annual salary at the rate of $9,851, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Ruth G. King as Statistical Clerk, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,256, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Willie J. Sanders as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Charles J. Siegman as Economist, Division of International Finance, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $12,064, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty, it being understood that the Board would pay the 
cost of moving his household goods from Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, to 
Washington, D. C., and transportation for Mr. Siegman and his family 
from Bala Cynwyd to Washington. 
Transfer 
Sonya L. Reeley, from the position of Clerk-Typist in the Division 
of Personnel Administration to the position of Clerk-Typist in the 
Division of Research and Statistics, with no change in basic annual 
salary at the rate of $4,269, effective March 12, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
James D. Goetzinger, Senior Programmer, Division of Data Processing, 
ef fee tive the close of business March 10, 1967. 
r 

74 3 
ofcoC:•. 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF 
T H E 
Item No. 731 
2/27/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 
20551 
DRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 27, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Chemical Bank New York 
Trust Company, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Chemical Bank New 
York Trust Company, New York, New York, of a branch on 
the shore side of Hylan Boulevard, approximately 488 fee 
south of Locust Avenue, New Dorp, Borough of Richmond, 
New York, New York, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter. . 
It is the Board's understanding that a $50 
million issue of capital debentures is in process of 
being sold and that steps are being taken to improve your 
bank's liquidity position. The Board urges attention be 
given to achieving and maintaining a satisfactory 
liquidity position. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

732 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
2/27/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 27, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Lincoln Rochester Trust Company, 
Rochester, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
extends to February 16, 1968, the time within which Lincoln 
Rochester Trust Company, Rochester, New York, may establish a 
branch at the intersection of Pittsford-Palmyra and Moseley 
Roads, Town of Perinton (unincorporated area), Monroe County, 
New York. 
The Board also approves the establishment of a branch 
by Lincoln Rochester Trust Company in the Nichols Discount City 
Plaza, located at the northeast corner of Moran Road {Town Line 
Road) and United States Route 20 - New York State Route 5, Town 
of Hopewell, Ontario County, New York, provided the branch is 
established within one year from the date of this letter. 
It is the Board's understanding that consideration has 
been given to means of strengthening your bank's capital position 
and that appropriate action is to be taken. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the Board also 
had approved a six-month extension of the period allowed 
to establish the Hopewell branch; and that if an extension 
should be requested, the procedure prescribed in the Board's 
letter of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

74 3 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
DY C. 
20551 
Item No. 49 
2/27/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
February 27, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Union Trust Company of Maryland, 
Baltimore, Maryland, 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment of a branch by Union 
Trust Company of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, in a 
proposed shopping center on Maryland Route 404 (approxi-
mately one-quarter of a mile east of Maryland Route 309), 
Hillsboro, Maryland, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter and further 
provided that branch operations now conducted at your 
present Hillsboro office will be discontinued simultaneously 
with the establishment of the new branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 4 
2/27/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Citizens Commercial 6c Savings 
Bank, 
Flint, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Citizens Commercial & 
Savings Bank, Flint, Michigan, of a branch at G-4130 
East Court Street, Burton Township, Genesee County, 
Michigan, provided the branch is established within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
The Board understands that you are giving con-
sideration to means to strengthen your bank's less than 
satisfactory capital position. The Board urges that 
action in this regard be taken in the near future. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F* T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
2/27/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by United California 
Bank, Los Angeles, California, of a branch in the 
vicinity of the intersection of Central Avenue and Moreno 
Street, Montclair, California, and a branch near the 
northwest corner of the intersection of Century and 
Airport Boulevards, Los Angeles, California, provided 
each branch is established within 18 months from the date 
of this letter. 
Based on preliminary figures from the most 
recent examination of your bank, it appears the bank's 
capital position is in need of strengthening. The Board 
urges your careful consideration be given this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branches; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

736 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
I t e m No- 
6 
OF THE 
2/27/67 
f
m
F
E
D
E
R
A
L 
RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1967. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentl emen: 
As requested in your letter of January 26, 1967, the 
°ard of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold up to 25 per cent of the capital stock of a New Zealand 
inarice company, to be formed by the merger of Manufacturers & 
Retailers Acceptance Company and Pacific Factors Limited, both of 
wew Zealand, at a cost of approximately US$750,000, provided such 
stock is acquired within one year from the date of this letter, 
n this connection, the Board also approves the purchase and 
°lding of the above-mentioned shares in excess of 10 per cent of 
y°nr Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
nat the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign 
°ans and investments of your Corporation, First National City Bank, 
and International Banking Corporation, will not cause the total of 
Such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines established 
under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

74 3 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 737 
2/27/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L C 0 R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1967. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 30, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold 133,334 additional ordinary shares, par value of £1 each, 
°f Morgan Grenfell & Co. Limited, London, England, at a cost of 
approximately US$1,493,341, provided such shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is being given with the under-
standing that the investments now being approved, combined with 
other foreign loans and investments of your Corporation, Morgan 
Guaranty Trust Company of New York and Morgan Guaranty International 
Ranking Corporation, will not cause the total of such loans and 
investments to exceed the guidelines established under the volun-
tary foreign credit restraint effort now in effect and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

738 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No 
• F THE 
2/27/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1967. 
B ank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
san Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
l t s permission to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Associa-
tion, San Francisco, California, pursuant to the provisions of Section 
« of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in the City of 
Asuncion, Paraguay, and to operate and maintain such branch subject 
0 the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
usiness on or before March 1, 1968, all rights granted hereby shall 
e deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
. 
A s you are aware, with respect to the establishment of for-
eign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form of 
Allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as for-
eign assets for purposes of the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
eserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
^urnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
°ard should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
l 0 n of the branch within the City of Asuncion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the Board also 
had approved a six-month extension of the period allowed to 
establish the branch; and that if an extension should be 
requested, the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter of 
November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

739 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 9 
2/27/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C. 
20551 
O F 
T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. William A. James, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. James: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salary to the Medical Director of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia, who works on a regular part-time basis at 
the rate of $7,800 per annum retroactive to January 23, 
1967. The Board understands that, when converted to a full-
time basis, this salary would exceed the maximum of the grade 
to which his position is assigned. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 

74 3 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRB 
Item No. 740 
2/27/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, Assistant Director 
for Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This acknowledges your letter of February 13, 1967, 
requesting the Board's views on a draft bill prepared by the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board "To amend section 408 of the National Housing 
Act, as amended, to provide for the regulation of savings and loan 
folding companies and subsidiary companies." 
The Board has previously submitted detailed comments on 
two earlier drafts of similar legislation, in letters of August 17, 
1964, and May 21, 1965. The present draft is similar in major re-
spects to that discussed in the May 21, 1965, letter, and reflects 
numerous of the comments submitted by the Board at that time. The 
Board continues to favor the principle of extending to holding 
companies of savings and loan associations regulatory and supervisory 
requirements corresponding to those imposed on holding companies of 
commercial banks and, accordingly, would favor enactment of the 
draft bill. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
L E A S E D W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
February 27, 1967. 
Presidents, All Federal Reserve Banks, 
Board has decided to allow expiration on March 1, 1967, of 
authority described in its letter of July 1, 1966, with respect 
to emergency credit assistance to nonmember depositary-type 
institutions in the event of extreme liquidity pressures. 
While 
need for again authorizing such assistance now seems remote, 
Board stands ready to receive and act promptly on request from 
any Reserve Bank if authorization for such assistance should 
seem desirable in the future. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 
Item No. 57 
2/27/67 

7 4 2 
^OfCOfcL*. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
Item No. 12 
2121161 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
February 27, 1967 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In accordance with the practice followed for 
the past several years, there are enclosed copies of the 
reports made by the firm of public accountants that 
audited the accounts of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System for the year ended December 31, 1966. 
These include (1) Financial Statements and Accountants1 
Opinion and (2) Report on Scope of Examination of Financial 
Statements. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosures 2 

74 3 
Item No. 13 
2/27/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the requests contained in 
your letter of February 21, 1967, the Board approves 
the appointment of Thomas P. McAlea as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
effective March 2, 1967. 
The Board also approves the appointments of 
Julius A. Nicolai and John J. Sweeney, at present 
assistant examiners, as examiners for your bank. Please 
advise the salary rates and effective dates of these 
appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTE 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
