MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 6, 1969 

3051 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 6, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members1 Offices 
Economic review. Members of the research staff reviewed the 
impact on various countries and on the U.S. international payments 
position of the recent German decision to let the mark float, along 
with domestic business and financial developments, the reports being 
based to some extent on materials that had been distributed in preparation 
for tomorrow1s meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of 
the relevant documentation have been placed in the Committee's files. 
Following discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions other than Messrs. Partee and Norwood withdrew from 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

kj'JO/C 
10/6/69 
-2-
the meeting, as did Messrs. Broida and Morgan, and the following 
entered: 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Noble, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
Barton, Barton, Maryland, and The Citizens National Bank of Westernport, 
Westernport, Maryland, into The First National Bank of Oakland, Oakland, 
dryland, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of 
the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little competition existing among The First 
National Bank of Barton, The Citizens National Bank of 
Westernport, and The First National Bank of Oakland. The 
overall competitive effect of the proposal would be slightly 
adverse. 
Report on S. 2569. A draft of report to the Chairman of the 
Senate Committee on Banking and Currency had been distributed relating 
t o S. 2569, a bill that would amend section 3(d) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act to allow bank holding companies in the District of Columbia 
to expand into the suburbs and grant reciprocal privileges to Maryland 
and Virginia holding companies. The letter would recommend enactment 
the bill, but with an amendment to provide that a Virginia or Maryland 

10/6/69 
-3-
bank acquired by a D.C.-based holding company could not have a banking 
office outside the metropolitan area. 
General agreement with the basic approach of the draft report 
was expressed. However, a number of questions were raised in an effort 
to clarify the rather complex issues involved. Among other things, it 
was noted that if a State law explicitly prohibited expansion into that 
State the authority contained in the bill would apparently be ineffective. 
It was the consensus that this potential limiting factor should be brought 
to the attention of the Banking and Currency Committee. 
At the instance of Governor Brimmer there followed some discussion 
of the effect of the proposed legislation on problems facing the District, 
including whether advantages would accrue to the District economy on 
balance or simply to the stockholders of individual banks. It was his 
understanding that the large District banks were using a declining share 
of existing resources within the District, and he had seen no documentation 
to persuade him that this trend would be reversed. In reply, it was 
suggested that a system of the kind contemplated would tend to place money 
where it would earn the best return and take it from credit-generating 
areas. There was no reason to assume that access to additional funds 
would necessarily change lending patterns, but at least the pool of funds 
available presumably would be increased. It had been said that one of 
the purposes of the legislation was to increase the lending ability of 
the District banks, which in the present circumstances were closed in 
and unable to expand their services. 

3054 
10/6/69 
-4-
Unanimous approval was then given to a statement of the Board's 
views for inclusion in the record of the Committee's hearings in the 
form attached as Item No. 1. 
District boundaries. In a memorandum dated September 29, 1969, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations reviewed the background 
against which the most recent study of Reserve Bank District boundaries 
had been undertaken by an Ad Hoc Subcommittee of the Committee on Sundry 
Operations of the Conference of First Vice Presidents. Specific recommen-
dations had been made for territorial transfers, as well as a recommendation 
that no change be made with respect to the transfer of five southeastern 
Arizona counties presently assigned to the El Paso Branch. The Subcommittee 
did not report on several factors considered by the Committee on Sundry 
Operations to be of significance, and a further study had recently been 
directed by the Conference of First Vice Presidents. 
In the interest of expediting resolution of the boundary line 
issue, the Division recommended that the Conference of First Vice Presi-
dents be requested to submit to the Board the cases studied by the Ad Hoc 
/ 
Subcommittee without further intra-System review. As to the views of 
the Reserve Banks on matters of cost, feasibility, etc., such information 
could be supplied by the Reserve Banks concerned direct to the Board. In 
connection with the El Paso Branch question, the Division suggested that 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Kansas City and Dallas make known their 
views with respect to alternative possible territorial transfers. Attached 

•3055 
10/6/69 
-5-
to the memorandum were proposed letters to the Chairman of the Conference 
of First Vice Presidents and to the Presidents of the Kansas City and 
Dallas Reserve Banks. 
Comments by members of the Board reflected agreement with the 
Division's recommendations. Suggestions were made for editorial changes 
in the proposed letters so as to couch the requests for information in 
diplomatic terms but still convey a sense of urgency with respect to 
completion of the review. It was understood that a letter would also 
be sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland in connection with the 
Subcommittee's recommendation for territorial changes involving that 
District. 
The staff responded to a number of questions from members of 
the Board relating to statutory provisions pertinent to establishment of 
District boundaries, as well as practical problems associated with the 
establishment of those boundaries and with the opening or closing of 
branches. 
There was also some discussion of territorial transfers that 
might evolve from changing service patterns and of the need for the 
El Paso Branch in the present environment. In connection with the 
overall question of District boundaries, Governor Brimmer called attention 
to the possibility of shifting Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands to 
the Atlanta District and to the mounting number of requests for a branch 
facility to be located in Miami. 

3056 
10/6/69 
-6-
Unanimous approval was then given to letters to the Chairman 
of the Conference of First Vice Presidents and to the Presidents of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas, as 
attached under Item No. 2. 
Minneapolis building program. Governor Mitchell stated that 
in connection with the Minneapolis building program, the Reserve Bank's 
Board of Directors had considered three alternatives (immediate construction, 
indefinite postponement, or deferral until May 1, 1970). As pointed out 
in a letter dated October 4, 1969, from President Galusha, the third 
alternative had been adopted and referred to the Board of Governors for 
consideration. 
The matter was discussed in light of local problems and national 
policy considerations. It was the consensus that the Reserve Bank action 
should be noted without objection after taking cognizance of the fact 
that the decision to postpone construction until May 1970 was reached 
only after a difficult reappraisal of the status of the Minneapolis 
building program by the Bank1s directors. 
Accordingly, approval was given to a telegram to President Galusha 
in the form attached as Item No. 3. Governor Sherrill noted that in his 
opinion deferral of construction for 6 months represented an unfortunate 
middle course. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3057 
Item No. 1 
10/6/69 
Statement of William McC. Martin, Jr. 
Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Before the Senate Banking and Currency Committee 
on S. 2569 
October 7, 1969 
I appreciate your invitation to present the views of the 
Board of Governors on S. 2569, which would amend section 3(d) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act to allow bank holding companies in the 
District of Columbia to expand into the suburbs, and grant reciprocal 
Privileges to Maryland and Virginia holding companies. 
Section 3(d) prohibits the Board from approving an acquisition 
by a bank holding company of a bank located outside the State in which 
the holding company's banking operations are principally conducted, 
unless the acquisition is .specifically authorized by State statute. 
2569 would add two exceptions to section 3(d). Under the first, a 
holding company whose banking operations are principally conductcd in 
the District of Columbia on the date of enactment (or when it becomes 
a holding company if that is later) might acquire, with the Board's 
Approval, banks located in Montgomery and Prirce George's Counties 
in Maryland and in Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, and Frincc William 
Counties and the cities of Alexandria and Falls Church in Virginia. 
Under the second, a holding company whose banking operations are 
Principally conducted in either Maryland or Virginia on the date of 
Gnactment (or when it bccomes a holding company if that is later) 
might acquire banks located in the District of Columbia. 
However, 

the authority of a holding company to expand the scope of its operations 
across State lit.es might be affected by State, law in view of section 7 
of the Act, which reserves to the States their rights with respect to 
banks, bank holding companies, and subsidiaries thereof. 
The Hoard believes that the unique situation in Washington 
merits special consideration. In its application to the District o£ 
Columbia section 3(d) is obviously far more restrictive than it is 
with respect to any other area. A rule adopted with States like 
California in mind is unrealistic as applied to an area of 61 square 
miles that is entirely metropolitan and entirely surrounded by 
expanding suburbs. The inequity of the situation with respect to the 
City of Washington is more apparent now than it was when section 3(d) 
was enacted in 1956. The two States that surround Washington permit 
banks located therein to expand State-wide, and State-wide banking 
organizations have become prevalent in recent years in both States. 
Several of such organizations have offices loeated in the Washington 
metropoli tan a::ea. 
The Board believes that permitting banking organizations in 
the District of Columbia to establish offices in the suburbs and vice 
versa would be beneficial to the community interest by promoting 
competition and facilitating the allocation of resources in meeting 
credit demands, 
Other provisions of section 3 of the Act afford protection 
against abuses of the proposed new authority. Under section 3(b) of 

3059 
-3-
the Act, the Board is required, upon receipt of an application for 
its approval of a proposed acquisition by a holding company of a 
State-chartered bank, to inform the appropriate supervisory authority 
of the interested State. If such authority opposes approval of the 
application, the Board must order a hearing and permit all interested 
parties to testify on the proposed transaction. 
Protection against potentially anticompetitive effects 
arising frocn enactment of S. 2569 is provided by scction 3(c) of the 
Act and the antitrust laws. Under section 3(c) the Board may not 
approve an acquisition that would have serious anticompetitive effects, 
unless it finds that such effects are clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. And section 11 
of the Act requires the Board to notify the Attorney General of its 
approval of any acquisition, and establishes procedures under which 
the Attorney General may invoke the antitrust laws to prevent the 
consummation of the transaction, despite the Board's approval. 
A possible alternative approach to accomplish the purposes 
S. 2569 would be to modify the Federal branch banking law (12 U.S.C, 
36) to permit national banks (and State member banks so far as Federal 
law is concerned) with offices located in th® Washington metropolitan 
area to establish new banking offices throughout such area, with the 
approval of the appropriate Federal supervisory agency and, in the case 
of a State-chartered bank, with the approval of its State supervisor. 

3060 
This new-branch alternative might tend to minimize any potentially anti-
competitive effects in removing the barrier of political boundaries to 
the expansion of banking organizations. 
A third approach by which District banks might appropriately 
be permitted t:o enter the suburbs and suburban banks to enter the 
District would be by direct acquisition of an existing banking office 
through purchase of assets, merger, or consolidation. Federal law 
provides the same kind of protection against harmful consequences 
resulting from such direct acquisitions as it does for bank acquisi-
tions by a bank holding company. 
In the Board's judgment, each of these approaches has merit. 
However, under the approach of S. 2569, approval of e n t r y by District 
bank holding companies into the suburbs and Maryland or Virginia 
holding companies into the District would be centralized in the Board. 
Although such centralization of authority is not critical to appropriate 
expansion of banking offices, it would assure that the relevant 
considerations in expanding banking offices across State lines to the 
limited extent permitted by the bill are considered on a uniform basis, 
which would seem to be desirable in departing from the rules based on 
Political boundaries. 
In one respect the provisions of S. 2569 may go further than 
necessary. If a District of Columbia based holding company acquired 
Q bank in the Maryland suburbs, there is nothing in the bill as 
introduced to prevent the subsidiary Maryland bank from establishing 

3061 
-5-
branchos throughout the State. We question whether the now authority 
to expand in the metropolitan area should be used to expand throughout 
• i • 
Maryland 
and Virginia. Accordingly, the bill should provide that a 
Virginia or Maryland bank acquired by a District of Columbia based 
holding company may not have a banking office outside the metropolitan 
area. 
The Beard recommends enactment of S. 2569 with an amendment 
es suggested in the immediately preceding paragraph. 
< I. i;l 
• ••v.tr.-.I Mr . 
:,. - f r -J -1} .? 

'.ML re 
BOARD DP- G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
10/6/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E . 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 10, 1969. 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Hugh J. Helmer, Chairman, 
Conference of First Vice Presidents 
of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
' Chicago, Illir.ois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Helmer: 
The Board noted with interest the excellent study by the 
Ad Hoc Subcommittee to Review District and 3ranch Boundary Lines and 
the conclusion of the parent Committee on Sundry Activities that the 
final report irakes a good case for the territorial transfers 
recommended. 
The Board concurs in the judgment that in a particular 
boundary change the views of the Reserve Banks involved on matters of 
cost, feasibility, and related factors are needed. However, the 
Board feels that a resolution of these matters would be expedited if 
the cases studied by the Ad Hoc Subcommittee were considered by the 
Board now without further intra-System review. In that regard, it 
has asked the Reserve Banks directly concerned with the possible 
changes to develop the supplemental information referred to above and 
submit it directly to the Board for consideration as soon as possib-e. 
The suggestion by the Ad Hoc Subcommittee, and endorsed by 
the Committee, that an appraisal be made of national systems of Federal 
Reserve operating services whose territorial configurations would not 
be inhibited by established boundary lines appears promising ancl the 
Board would encourage that efforts be expedited towards further ex-
ploration of this approach even though the evolution of the concept 
into a practical mode of operation may require some time. A national 
systems approach along the lines indicated might minimize future 
changes in*Federal Reserve district boundary lines as well as contribute 
to improved services to member banks. 
It is also noted that while the decision concerning the five 
counties in Arizona was difficult, the Subcommittee recommended that 
no change be irade, in part because of the possible impact of such a 

Mr. Hugh J. Haimer 
-2-
change ori the viability of the El Paso Branch and the character of 
services subsequently rendered its remaining territories. It would 
seem that before this matter can be resolved, consideration should be 
given to other alternatives, i.e., possible transfers of territories 
to the El Paso Branch now in the Head Office zone and/or that portion 
of the State of New Mexico presently in the Denver zone. Therefore, 
the Board has asked the Reserve Banks involved to study these alterna-
tives and report on the findings directly to it. 
Enclosed are copies of letters which were sent to the Reserve 
Banks directly involved in the cases studie.d by the Ad Hoc Subcommittee 
requesting the supplemental information referred to above. 
The Eoard would hope that all such proposed changes could 
be brought to it for consideration as soon as possible. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures. 

••f^LRE&V 
BOARD DP- G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C K R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
October 10, 1969. 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
In a recent letter to the Chairman of the Conference of 
First Vice Presidents, the Board expressed its agreement with the 
judgment of the Conference that the views of the Reserve Banks in-
volved on matters of cost, feasibility, and related matters are 
needed in connection with recommended changes in boundary lines. It 
was noted, however, that a resolution o'f these matters would be ex-
pedited if the cases studied by the Ad Hoc Subcommittee to Review 
District and Eranch Boundary Lines were considered by the Board now 
without further intra-System review. The Reserve Banks immediately 
involved with the possible changes would be requested to provide 
this supplemental information directly to tie Board. 
Consequently, for those recommended changes directly 
affecting your District, the Board would like to have (a) your views 
on the overall desirability of those changes and (b) information on 
the cost, feasibility, and other related factors that would be in-
volved if the changes were to take place. The Board would like a 
report on the above matters as soon as this supplemental informatics 
can be developed. 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N G R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N T . ' . 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 10, 1969. 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. George H. Clay, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
In a recent letter to the Chairman of the Conference of 
First Vice Presidents, the Board expressed its agreement with the 
judgment of the Conference that the views of the Reserve Banks in-
volved on matters of cost, feasibility, and related factors are 
needed in cornection with recommended changes in boundary lines. 
It was noted, however, that a resolution of these matters would be 
expedited if the cases studied by the Ad Hoc Subcommittee to Review 
District and Branch Boundary Lines were considered by the Board 
now without further intra-System review. The Reserve Banks 
immediately involved with the possible changes would be requested 
to provide this supplemental information directly to the Board. 
Consequently, for those recommended changes directly affecting 
your District, the Board would like to have (a) your views on the 
overall desirability of those changes and (b) information en the 
cost, feasibility, and other related factors that would be involved 
if the changes were to take place. 
The Board also noted the Ad Hoc Subcommittee1s recommendation 
that no change be made in the territorial alignment of the five coun-
ties in southeastern Arizona. One reason cited for this recommendation 
was the effect that such a change would have on the viability of the 
El Paso Branch and upon the character of the service subsequently 
rendered its remaining territory. It is felt, however, that before 
this matter can be resolved, consideration should be given to other 
alternatives including the possible transfer to the El Paso Branch of 
that portion of the State of New Mexico in the Denver zone. 

p p f f l p p p i 
3066 
/'P.J.: 
V.V 
George H. Clay 
- 2 -
The Board would like a report on the above matters as soon 
as this supplemental information can be developed. 
Very truly yours, 
;V:l i 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

B O A R D DP- G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R O 
October 10, 1969. 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Station K, 
Dallas, Texas. 7.5222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
The Board noted with interest the excellent study by the 
Ad Hoc Subcomnittee to Review District and Branch•Boundary Lines in-
cluding its recommendation that no change be made in the territorial 
alignment of the five counties in southeastern Arizona. One reason 
cited for this recommendation was the effect that such a change 
would have on the viability of the El Paso Branch and upon the char-
act. er of the service subsequentl}7 rendered its remaining territory. 
The Board feels that, before this matter can be resolved, 
consideration should be given to possible transfers of territories 
to the El Paso Branch now in the Head Office zone as well as that 
portion of the State of New Mexico presently in the Denver zone. 
Therefore, the Board asks that your Bank, and the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City in connection with New Mexico, study these 
alternatives and report on the findings as soon as possible. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

Item No. 
T E L E G R A M 
10/6/69 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL. RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 6, 1969 
GALUSHA - MINNEAPOLIS 
Board discussed contents of your October 4 letter concerning 
difficult reappraisal of status of Minneapolis building pro-
gram made by your directors in light of prevailing inflationary 
conditions. Board notes without objection decision to post-
pone construction until May 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KENYON 
