f 3ft 
PR 609 
((Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
.Tune 17. 1.971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
; f 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
d j C i'SOj t 'J > 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

1511 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 17, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Telegraphic transfer of funds. There had been placed on the 
agenda for this meeting a memorandum from the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations dated June 16, 1971, submitting a proposed letter to the 

1512 
6/17/71 
-2-
Federal Reserve Banks that would transmit revised instructions intended 
to implement the part of the Board's recently issued statement of policy 
on the payments mechanism dealing with the removal of charges for tele-
graphic transfers of funds. 
At the request of Governor Mitchell, the item had been removed 
from the agenda because a meeting of the System Steering Committee on 
Improving the Payments Mechanism was to be held later this month and it 
was considered desirable to discuss the proposal in that forum before the 
Board took action. 
However, at this meeting Governor Mitchell reviewed 
the issues involved, including the question whether the removal of charges 
for telegraphic transfers of $1,000 or more might result in a greater 
volume of business than the Federal Reserve communications network was 
equipped to handle. 
Although the effect could not be accurately predicted, it was 
reported to be the staff consensus within the System that the impact would 
not be great enough to strain the capacity of the wire network. 
Question 
was raised about continuing the present charge of $1.50 for transfers in 
amounts under $1,000, and some difference of opinion within the System 
was reported, there being a minority view that service in transferring 
small amounts should not be offered at all. Continuation of such service, 
with a charge made, appeared to be the alternative preferred by most of 
the Reserve Banks. 
After reviewing other problems associated with the payments 
mechanism and improvements that were being explored, Governor Mitchell 

-O 
6/17/71 
-3-
observed that much depended on the ability of the System wire network 
to handle the kinds of things that were being contemplated. After the 
Steering Committee meeting later this month, at which this and related 
matters would be discussed further, a firm recommendation would be made 
to the Board on how the operating instructions to the Reserve Banks should 
be revised. 
Consent calendar. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, granting its application 
for permission to issue capital notes. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by First at Orlando 
Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire the voting shares, less direc-
tors' qualifying shares, of The Fort Pierce Bank, Fort Pierce, Florida, 
a proposed new bank, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously the publication in the Federal 
Register of a notice giving interested parties an opportunity to request 
a hearing in connection with an application by Superior Equity Corpora-
tion, Lincoln, Nebraska, for a determination pursuant to section 2(g)(3) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
First National Bancorporation. 
There had been prepared drafts 
of an order and statement reflecting the Board's action on May 18, 1971, 

5 
6/17/71 
-4-
by majority vote, to approve an application by The First National Bancorpo-
ration, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of The National State 
Bank of Boulder, Boulder, Colorado. 
A suggestion had been made that a more direct comment be included 
in the majority statement with regard to the financial condition and 
prospects of the Boulder bank, and proposed revised language reflecting 
that suggestion was read. 
In the ensuing discussion, some modifications 
were agreed upon to minimize whatever risk might exist that the language 
of the statement would jeopardize the bank's viability during the time 
that would elapse before its acquisition by applicant was completed. 
With these modifications, the issuance of the order and statement was 
authorized. 
Copies of the order, statement, concurring statement by 
Governor Maisel, and dissenting statement by Governors Robertson and Brimmer, 
as issued, are attached under Item No. 4. 
Nassau branches. 
The staff had produced under date of May 10, 
1971, a memorandum in response to instructions from the Board to examine 
alternative measures that might be adopted to minimize or eliminate the 
scope for the use of Nassau shell branches in ways contrary to Board 
policy objectives, to consider whether any measures should be confined 
to shell branches or made applicable to the operations of a wider group 
or to all foreign branches, and to consider the feasibility of establish-
ing through regulation a more general separation of domestic and foreign 
banking activities. 

1515 
6/17/71 
-2-
The staff recommended that the Board continue to approve applica-
tions for shell branches, at any location, for banks qualified to operate 
foreign branches, and that the Board not make a distinction between 
shell and other foreign branches in approving applications. 
It was noted 
that a more restrictive policy might involve Board approval of a single 
shell branch for banks with no other foreign branches, and withdrawal 
of approval for shell branches for banks that already have, or subsequently 
open, full-service foreign branches. 
The staff did not believe that additional regulations on the 
operations of shell branches were desirable at this time. However, if 
the Board concluded that further regulation was necessary, the staff 
recommended that such regulation be limited to nonbank deposits, either 
through a reserve requirement or a prohibition against such deposits. 
The staff recommended that for the present the Board continue the 
degree of separation of domestic and foreign banking activities achieved 
through existing regulations. 
In a memorandum dated June 11, 1971, Governor Mitchell submitted 
a set of proposals that in his judgment would provide an appropriate 
basis for a long-term Board policy in respect to shell branches. 
The 
intent of those proposals was to permit shell branches to continue to 
provide low-cost access to the Euro-dollar market for foreign financing, 
but restrict the role of such branches in order to minimize potential 
problems. 

1516 
6/17/71 
-2-
It was understood at the outset of today's discussion that this 
was a preliminary exploration for the purpose of determining whether 
there appeared to be general areas of agreement or disagreement with 
the recommendations that were now before the Board. The discussion was 
based principally on the proposals contained in Governor Mitchell's 
memorandum of June 11, as follows: 
1. Permit a U.S. bank to operate a shell branch abroad 
only if it has no other foreign branch. 
2. Establish a prohibition against U.S. resident deposits 
in shell branches. 
3. Provide that a shell branch shall have no U.S. assets 
other than claims on its head office. 
Governor Mitchell reviewed his three proposals, of which he 
felt that the first was the most troublesome. 
He also outlined some 
possible modifications, as mentioned in his memorandum. 
Mr. Gemmill reviewed the staff memorandum of May 10 and expressed 
the view that the analysis therein was still valid. Although the staff 
was not unanimous in all respects, he personally found no particular 
difficulty with the second and third of Governor Mitchell's proposals, 
which he believed would be largely preventative in character. 
The reasons for these proposals were then discussed, with emphasis 
'• 
% 
f
-
c 
. 
V 
\ Sc'' '•: . . . 
... 
* 
... V* 
• 
. 
.... , J 
. 
. , 
, 
t
S 
on the negative aspects of solicitation of customers by U.S. banks to 
Place deposits on the Nassau ledger. 
This led to discussion of the modus 
operandi of Nassau branches, including a report by Mr. Dahl on his observa-
<1 bj,- C . . ^ .. rl 
.. , 
tions during his recent visit to Nassau. Question was raised why U.S. 

1517 
6/17/71 
-2-
parties would want to have deposits on the Nassau books; the answer given 
was in terms of obtaining higher rates of return through the Euro-dollar 
market. Another question raised was why depositors would prefer to have 
deposits on the Nassau ledger rather than in a London or other foreign 
branch, and it was suggested that they might feel a somewhat greater 
degree of safety from the standpoint of repayment should certain circum-
stances occur abroad. 
Question then was raised whether adoption of the second of Governor 
Mitchell's proposals might not be prejudicial to U.S. banks that have 
Nassau branches but no regular branches overseas. After some discussion 
of this point, Chairman Burns suggested that the staff make informal 
inquiry of a sampling of U.S. banks operating Nassau branches (and no 
other foreign branches) regarding the consequences of such a restriction. 
There was agreement with this suggestion, and it was expanded to include 
making inquiry also regarding the consequences of adopting the third 
Proposal. 
The discussion then turned to Governor Mitchell's first proposal, 
and Chairman Burns expressed some doubt whether the Board should take 
action simply on the basis of apprehension concerning the possible tax 
consequences of the operation of Nassau branches. 
Governor Sherrill 
agreed and went on to say that he was somewhat concerned, from the 
standpoint of U.S. banks operating regular branches overseas, about the 
discriminatory effect. 

15i£ 
6/17/71 
-8-
It was noted that one U.S. bank had a pending application to 
establish a shell-type branch in Paris in addition to its Nassau branch, 
and this led to discussion of reasons why a bank would want to have 
a branch in Nassau if it had a shell branch elsewhere. 
One reason given 
was the advantage of the time differential in handling Euro-dollar trans-
actions . 
Governor Mitchell then commented on the complexities of the tax 
issue, which it seemed to him could not be fully understood in the absence 
of consultation with tax attorneys. 
Governor Sherrill questioned whether 
enough was known about the situation to warrant writing restrictive regu-
lations specifically for that purpose, particularly if the net result 
of the Nassau branch operations was to reduce taxes payable to a foreign 
country. 
Reference was made to a memorandum on the tax question that had 
been prepared by Mr. Dahl under date of June 14, and it was understood 
that copies of the memorandum would be made available to all Board members. 
Chairman Burns noted that the Nassau branch problem had been on 
the agenda for some time and that it would be desirable to reach a decision. 
He asked that the staff endeavor to complete the informal inquiries that 
had been suggested and have a memorandum for the Board's consideration 
before the end of June. 
Question was raised whether inquiries should not be made also of 
banks having full-service branches overseas. 
However, it was suggested 

1519 
6/17/71 
-9-
that such inquiries, if made, might prove disturbing to the banks con-
cerned and arouse speculation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

T^URts^; 
1520 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
6/17/71 
ADOHEBS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
June 17, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Girard Trust Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Gentlemen; 
Pursuant to section 2.17.1(f) (3) (i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $35 million in subordinated notes by Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, as proposed in Comptroller Monnheimer's 
letter of June 9, 1971, with enclosures to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1521 
Item No. 2 
6/17/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST AT ORLANDO.CORPORATION, 
Orlando, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of all of 
the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of The Fort Pierce Bank, Fort Pierce, 
Florida, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando Corporation, 
Orlando, Florida ("Applicant"), for the Board1s prior approval of 
the acquisition of all of the voting shares (less directors' quai-
l i n g shares) of The Fort Pierce Bank, Fort Pierce, Florida ("Bank"), 
1/ 
a Proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Florida 
1/ 
Tentative approval has been received from the Florida Commissioner 
o f Banking to change the name of the proposed bank to "First Peoples Bank". 

1522 
-2-
Commissioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 27, 1971 (36 Federal Register 7076), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
fche factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
6ffect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
ar*d managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant and the 
b*nks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization in 
Fl 
°rida, controls 10 banks which hold combined deposits of $574.2 
m i lli 0 n, representing 4.1 per cent of the total deposits held by 
r 
commercial banks. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 
970» and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
b y the Board through April 30, 1971.) Since Bank is a proposed new 
bank 
i no existing competition would be eliminated, nor would concen-
r a tio n be increased in any relevant area. 

1523 
-2-
Bank will be located in a growing commercial and residential 
area south of downtown Fort Pierce, 2 miles from Applicant's closest 
existing subsidiary, St. Lucie County Bank. Bank's proposed site is 
adjacent to the tuo largest shopping centers in St. Lucie County, both 
of which have been established within the last 10 years. St. Lucie 
County Bank ($36.8 million in deposits), is the third largest bank in 
the Fort Pierce banking market, and the largest of three existing 
banks in the City of Fort Pierce. However, consummation of the pro-
posal would not give Applicant a dominant position in the Fort Pierce 
area market or raise substantial barriers to entry. There are nine 
banks representing seven banking organizations located in this area. 
Applicant with 1G.0 per cent of deposits within the market ranks third 
behind organizations with 25.5 per cent and 19.5 per cent, respectively. 
The largest bank holding company within the State ranks fourth with 
p e r c e n t an(j e a c h 0 f tjie remaining three independent banks has 
between 6.2 per cent and S.3 per cent of area deposits. On the basis 
o f the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
Proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any 
relevant area. 
The financial condition, management and prospects of Appli-
cant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as generally satisfactory. 
has no prior financial history, but will open with satisfactory 
CaPital and will be able to draw on Applicant for its management. 
Its 
future prospects are satisfactory. Although convenience and needs of 

1521 
-4-
the community .are adequately served at present, Bank's location 
adjacent to two major shopping centers, which presently have no 
banking facilities, should prdvideiadditional convenience to res-
idents and merchants of the area. Consequently, these factors 
lend some weight toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest, and the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, and provided further 
that ( c ) The Fort Pierce Bank shall be opened for business not later 
than six months after the date of this Order. The periods described 
l n (b) and (c) hereof may be extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 17, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns.and Governors 
• ; 
y Robertson, Mitchell, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors-Daane, Maisel, and 
Brimmer. 
• * • 
<0 
• • , . 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
6/17/71 
SUPERIOR EQUITY CORPORATION 
IOWA BUSINESS INVESTMENT CORPORATION 
Noticc of Request for Determination and 
Order providing Opportunity for Hearing 
Notice is hereby given that a request has been made to 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant 
to the provisions of section 2(g)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(g)(3)), by the Superior Equity 
Corporation ("Superior"), Lincoln, Nebraska, proposed successor 
in interest through merger to Iowa Business Investment Corporation 
("IBIC") , a bank holding company, for a determination that with 
respect to a proposed sale by Superior/IBIC of the Sibley State 
Bank, Sibley, Iowa, to Bruce R. Lauritzen, Darrell D. Green, and 
Joseph J. Latoza, all of Omaha, Nebraska, Superior/IBIC is not in 
fact: capable of controlling the said transferees. 
Inasmuch as section 2(g)(3) of the Act requires that any 
determination thereunder be made only after opportunity for hearing: 
It is ordered, That, pursuant to section 2(g)(3) of the 
Act, an opportunity be and hereby is provided for filing a request 
for hearing. Any such request or written comments on the application 
should be submitted in writing (in duplicate) to the Secretary, Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, 
to be received on or before July 6, 1971. The request for hearing 
should contain a statement, of the nature of the requesting person's 

152C 
-2-
interest in the matter, his reasons for wishing to appear at an 
oral hearing, and a summary of the matters concerning which said 
person wishes to give testimony at such hearing. The Board will 
subsequently designate a time and place for any hearing ordered, 
and will give notice of such hearing to the transferor, the 
transferees, and all persons who have requested a hearing. In the 
absence of a request for hearing, the Board will proceed with 
consideration of the requested determination on the basis of 
documentary evidence filed in connection with the application. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 17, 1971. 
Vs 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

18 
Item No. 4 
6/17/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC., ' 
Denver, Colorado, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
Ihe National State Bank of Boulder, 
1 
Boulder, Colorado. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
*842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The First National Bancorporation, 
*nc*» Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the 
B°ard's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
t h e voting shares of The National State Bank of Boulder, Boulder, 
C°lorado. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
C°mPtroller recommended approval of the application. 

1521 
-4-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 3, 1971 (36 Federal Register 2538), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order, unless such time shall be extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant 
t o delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, Jttfle 17, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

20 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE NATIONAL STATE BANK OF BOULDER, BOULDER, COLORADO 
STATEMENT 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
National State Bank of Boulder, Boulder, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
°f the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
Application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

1530 
- 2 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case, the Board is required to 
take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Applicant is the second largest bank holding company and 
banking organization in Colorado, controlling six banks with aggre-
gate deposits of $654*5 million, which represent 15.0 per cent of 
total commercial deposits in the State." 
Upon acquisition of Bank 
($32.3 million deposits), Applicant's share of deposits would be 
increased by less than 1 per cent and Applicant would become the 
largest bank holding company and banking organization. 
A/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding 
company acquisitions and formations to date. Included among Applicant's 
subsidiaries are The First National Bank of Greeley, Greeley, Colorado 
($41 million deposits), and The Security State Bank of Sterling, Sterling, 
Colorado ($24 million deposits), which acquisitions were approved by the 
Board on June 9, 1970, and December 21, 1970, respectively. 
Consummation 
of 
these acquisitions has been delayed by litigation instituted by the 
United States Department of Justice. Not included among Applicant's sub-
sidiaries is the Exchange National Bank of Colorado Springs, Colorado 
Springs, Colorado ($60 million deposits), the acquisition of which was 
approved by the Board on April 1, 1971. Subsequent to litigation instituted 
by the Department of Justice, the acquisition proposed was withdrawn. 

- 3 -
1531 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. 
The financial condition and management of Applicant and its subsidiaries 
are satisfactory and the prospects of each are favorable. On the con-
trary, however, the financial condition of the bank, and its management, 
are so unsatisfactory as to constitute the dominant considerations 
supporting, and more, requiring, Board approval of this application. 
Without a change in ownership and management bank's prospects appear 
grove principally because of its weak liquidity position which derives 
from its heavily invested position in very long-term obligations. 
Correction of this situation will require strong financial support 
°ver a substantial period of time as well as additional capital at 
fchis time. Present ownership of Bank is unable to supply such support, 
whereas Applicant is committed, if the proposal is approved, to 
increase capital to a level acceptable to Bank's primary supervisor, 
the Comptroller of the Currency, and will be able to provide additional 
support in the future. Applicant further proposes to provide strong 
Management to assist Bank during this transition period. Prospects 
o f Bank, which are presently regarded ns poor, would be regarded as 
8°od upon consummation of the proposal. Considerations relating to 
banking factors therefore weigh most strongly in favor of approval 
o f the application. 
The Department takes the position that the banking factors 
should not weigh in favor of approval bccause no showing has been 
Made that Applicant is the only available purchaser and, further, 

1532 
- 3 -
because under § 3(a) of the Act, Applicant can take ownership of 
the stock for a two-year period and make it more marketable. 
(Applicant's subsidiary banks have loaned funds to owners of Bank, 
secured by Bank stock, for the purpose of purchasing the stock; 
these loans for practical purposes are now in default.) However, 
the proposed sale of Bank was well publicized and the only other 
prospective purchaser was another large Denver-based holding company, 
whose acquisition would presumably raise the same questions concern-
ing potential competition. Further, although Applicant could take 
control of Bank by virtue of foreclosure on its outstanding loan to 
Bank's present owners and operate Bank for a period of two years, 
Bank's liquidity problems are likely to take a considerable period 
t o work out, and there is reason to believe that two years of uncer-
tainty as to the ultimate resolution of the Bank's fate would be 
injurious to its customers as well as proprietary owners. Indeed, 
q t the end of such an interval a "more desirable" purchaser would 
n o t likely even be available. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. Bank is 
l°cated in Boulder, Boulder County (population 130,000), which is 
pp 
miles northwest of Denver. Although Bank is the second largest of 
1 2 banks located in Boulder County, it holds less than half the deposits 
0 f the largest bank in the area. In addition, two other banks, each 
deposits of approximately $24 million, are located in the Boulder 
QlrGa> and are significant competitors in that market. Applicant's 

153 
- 5 -
<r> 
0> 
closest subsidiary banks are located in suburban Denver, over 21 miles 
from Bank, and there is no significant existing competition between 
Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries, although one of Applicant's 
subsidiary banks does originate a limited number of real estate loans 
in the Boulder area. 
In connection with the application, the Board has considered 
a view expressed by the Department of Justice that consummation of the 
Proposed acquisition "would have a significantly adverse effect on 
competition". The Department states that some existing competition 
for deposits and loans would be eliminated, and that consummation of 
transaction would foreclose substantial potential competition. In 
t h° l a t t e r reSard, the Department takes the position that the acquisition 
w°uld eliminate one of the most likely entrants into the concentrated 
Moulder market and entrench a leading competitor in that market. 
V t h e r , the Department states that the proposal would elininate a 
able to participate in a new holding company providing Statewide 
Services. With respect to the banking factors involved in the proposed 
acquisition, the Department takes the position that, assuming sale of 
the 
e hank is desirable, there is no showing that Applicant is the only 
l i a b l e buyer. 
The Board disagrees with this analysis of the competitive 
f 
0cts of consummation of the proposal. Bank is half as large as 
the H °minant competitor in the market, and, far from dominating its 

- 3 -
25 
smaller competitors, Bank has actually experienced a decline in its 
share of deposits in the market. It held a 25 per cent share of 
deposits in the market in 1950, and presently holds only a 16 per 
cent share. Rather than entrenching bank to the detriment of smaller 
banks in the market, the most likely effect of the acquisition would 
be to strengthen Bank so as to improve competition in Boulder. 
It might be that Applicant's entry into the Boulder area 
de novo, or by the acquisition of a smaller bank, would be, to an 
extent, competitively preferable. However, under the facts of this 
case, such a possibility does not provide a significantly adverse 
consideration to approval of the proposal. There is no substantial 
evidence that Applicant would choose to enter the market through 
either method. As to acquisition of a smaller bank, there are only 
tv?o unaffiliated institutions in Boulder, and there is no indication 
that either institution is available for acquisition. With respect 
to the possibility of dc novo entry, the projected population growth 
of 
Boulder County might appear to make such entry attractive. However, 
the probability of such entry by Applicant must be judged in light of 
the fact that two charter applications have been filed for banks to 
be located in the county and one is in the process of being filed 
f°r a bank to be located in Boulder. Therefore, it is less likely 
that Applicant would find an attractive location for such entry in 
the near future. It does not appear that consummation of the proposal 
v°uld foreclose significant potential competition. 

1535 
- 3 -
In light of the above circumstances, the Board concludes 
that the consummation of the proposed transaction would not result 
in a monopoly, nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, 
or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
United States, and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen 
competition, or tend to create a monopoly in any section of the 
country. 
Convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Consummation of the proposal would have no effect on the convenience 
and needs of customers now served by Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
There is no evidence that substantial needs of banking customers in 
Moulder are going unserved. However, consummation of the proposal 
^ill enable Bank to become a viable alternative source of full bank-
ing services. Affiliation with Applicant would significantly improve 
Bank's correspondent relationships and facilitate loan participations. 
Applicant further proposes to institute a more competitive loan rate 
st*ucture for Bank. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
th 
e communities to be served thus lend strong weight toward approval 
0 f 
application. 
Summary and conclusion. On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°tttained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
8ection 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
tj. 
faction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
be approved, 
J U n e 17, 1971 

1536 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR MAISEL 
I vote with the majority to approve the application, however, 
I disagree with the majority's analysis of the competitive effect of 
the proposal. 
Applicant is a major competitor in the adjacent Denver 
inking market. By virtue of this position and the attractiveness of 
the rapidly expanding Boulder banking market, Applicant is one of the 
m°st likely entrants into the Boulder market. Permitting Applicant to 
enter this market by the acquisition of the second largest competitor 
the market will have adverse effects on future competition. In a 
concentrated market, it will eliminate the possibility of Bank becoming 
a stronger independent competitor or member of another holding company 
and foreclose the possibility-of Applicant entering the market in a 
*ess anticompetitive manner. 
However, I believe that considerations relating to the 
inking factors clearly outweigh any adverse effects of consummation 
the proposal. The present position of Bank has been well documented 
in the majority Statement, In addition, the Comptroller of the Currency, 
^nk's primary supervisor, has on the basis of these considerations 
strongiy recommended approval of the proposal. At present, Applicant 
the most assured source of immediate and long-term support and 
to Bank's problems. Denial of the application would only 
Se*ve to create more uncertainty and thereby compound Bank's difficulties. 
On the basis of all the facts of record, I would approve the 
" ^ c a t i o n . 
U , 1971. 

1537 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF 
GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
In our judgment, consummation of the proposal will eliminate 
existing competition and foreclose substantial potential competition. 
Based upon the facts of record and the statutory criteria, we would 
deny the application. 
The record reflects that Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank 
presently compete to a limited extent for deposits and to a somewhat 
greater extent for mortgage loans. Thus, the consummation of the 
transaction would eliminate some existing competition. More impor-
tantly, however, consummation would foreclose substantial potential 
competition. 
This proposal is simply an effort by the State's second 
largest banking organization (which is almost the largest) to enter 
the market immediately adjacent to the market in which it is a major 
competitor by the acquisition of the second largest organization in 
the adjacent market. The banking structure of the Boulder area is 
already concentrated. Two banking organizations, including Bank, 
control over 70 per cent of deposits in the City of Boulder, and 
°ver 55 per cent of deposits in Boulder County. 
It can hardly be said that that market is not attractive 
tor Applicant' 
® ^ novo entry. Over the last 10 years, the popula-
tion of the City of Boulder has increased by 77.3 per cent, and it 
is expected to increase at an annual average rate of 5.5 per cent 
over the next five years. Under the circumstances, it is clear 

that the market can support additional entrants. Applicant, from its 
adjacent market, is a logical entrant into Boulder, and the fore-
closure of these possibilities by approval of the application has an 
adverse effect on competition. Moreover, there are several smaller 
Boulder banks available as a means of entry into the market. Con-
sequently, the Board's action today inhibits deconcentration of the 
area. 
We have previously expressed our opinion that acquisitions 
of the type here involved would unduly further concentrate banking 
resources, and prevent the formation of additional competitors to 
the few Statewide companies on Colorado (e.g., 1970 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 543). The facts of this case strengthen us in that con-
viction. 
We are not persuaded by the argument of the majority that 
the banking and convenience and-)needs factors weigh-, strongly in 
favor of approval and outweigh any possible adverse effects from 
consummation of the proposal. A change in Bank's ownership and 
Policies is desirable. However, the Congress has provided a 
solution to the problem. Section 3 of the Act permits Applicant's 
largest subsidiary - which holds a majority of the stock of Bank 
a s security for a loan it extended for the purpose of enabling 
the borrower to acquire control of the Bank - to foreclose upon 
the stock of Bank, and reduce it to ownership. However, Congress 
sPecifically provided that in such cases the stock would have to 

be disposed of within two years. We see no justifiable basis for 
seeking to avoid that Congressional directive by approving an 
anticompetitive acquisition without regard to the divestiture 
requirement of section 3. To rule otherwise, as the Board does 
today, is to permit Applicant to use the existence of Bank's 
Present difficulties (which are not insurmountable) and a loan 
to Bank's present .majority stockholder as a lever to acquire a 
bank whose acquisition should be denied on competitive con-
siderations . 
For these reasons, we would deny the application. 
June 17, 1971. 
