Minutes for March 30, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary-
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 8 
Amendments to Regulation G, Securities 
Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, 
Brokers, or Dealers, and Regulation U, 
Credit by Banks for the Purpose of 
Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

73C 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, March 30, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr 
Mr 
Mr 
Mr 
Mr, 
Mr, 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Holland, Secretary 
Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
O'Connell, General Counsel 
Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Kakalec, Controller 
Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

740 
3/30/71 
-12-
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Interest rate authority. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to the Office of Management and Budget recommending that the 
President approve S.J. Res. 55, which among other things would extend 
temporarily the flexible authority over ceiling rates of interest payable 
• • 
. J."'':'--' 
' 
,••••'.•••".' 
• 
. . 
• 
on time and savings deposits. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
•• ; . • • • 
f . : r M..,. 
• - • • . 
: 
Consent calendar. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order 
i I 
; - ' ; 
•> c 
• 1 
lM 
L'V' > bo-; 
i 
i 
and statement reflecting approval on March 11, 1971, of the application 
of Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of 
U • 
M:«;he I I 
» • • i • • ..t; i " / ." ; • • •. 
Farmers and Merchants Bank, Weyauwega, Wisconsin. Copies of the documents 
are attached under Item No. 2, along with the dissenting statement of 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
The application of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to 
acquire shares of The Citizens Banking Company, Perrysburg, Ohio, was 
^proved unanimously, and the issuance of an order reflecting this 
decision was authorized. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
J 
Nassau branches. Today's agenda called for consideration of 
applications for establishment of branches in Nassau, Bahamas, by Society 
National Bank of Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio, and Bank of America, New York, 

741 
3/30/71 
-12-
New York (an Edge corporation). However, discussion disclosed a preference 
to await the completion of staff analysis now in preparation regarding 
issues underlying the Nassau branch problem generally. Also, Governor 
Brimmer commented that the Bank of America application appeared to open 
up a new aspect of the Nassau branch question, the implications of which 
he asked the staff to explore. Action on the two applications was there-
fore deferred. 
Exchange Bancorporation. 
The application of Exchange Bancorpora-
tion, Inc., Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of Exchange Bank of North 
Winter Haven, Winter Haven, Florida, a proposed new bank, had been 
docketed on the consent calendar on March 18, 1971, but consideration 
had been deferred pending exploration of certain questions raised by 
Governor Mitchell.' Additional analysis was provided in a memorandum 
dated March 23 from the Division of Supervision and Regulation. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application was approved 
unanimously and issuance of an order reflecting this decision was authorized. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
Housing Institutions Modernization Act. The Office of Management 
and Budget had requested the Board's view on a Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
draft bill entitled "Housing Institutions Modernization Act of 1971." 
with a memorandum dated March 25, 1971, the Legal Division and the Division 
°f Research and Statistics submitted a draft reply but emphasized that 
because of time limitations a complete study of the various provisions 
°f the proposed legislation had not been possible. 

742 
3/30/71 
-12-
Discussion reflected a view that the draft bill involved several 
significant issues regarding which a Board position should not be formu-
lated hastily, including particularly a provision under which full Federal 
insurance WDuld be provided against public funds held by insured savings 
and loan associations. 
In view of the need for urgency that had been 
expressed by the Office of Management and Budget on behalf of the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board, consideration was given to the possibility of sending 
a noncommittal interim reply, with the thought that the Board of Governors 
would be able to present its views later during the course of Congressional 
hearings on the proposed legislation. However, general agreement then was 
expressed with an approach that would endorse the major objective of the 
bill, namely, to provide more flexibility to savings and loan associations, 
but would point out that certain features of the bill, as to which the 
Board presently had reservations, would require further study. 
Accordingly, at the conclusion of the discussion unanimous approval 
was given to the sending of a letter in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
This action was taken with the understanding that the staff would continue 
its analysis of certain sections of the draft bill, with a view to 
enabling the Board to reach conclusions with respect thereto and present 
them at the appropriate time, perhaps in connection with testimony on 
H.R. 5700, known as the Banking Reform Act. 
Contingency planning. On November 3, 1970, during discussion 
of issues identified by the Program Planning and Budgeting Committee, 

?43 
3/30/71 
-12-
the Board requested Messrs. Holland, Partee, and R. Solomon to consider 
how extensive, and how exhaustive, staff planning should be for events 
that might reasonably be anticipated but were not certain to occur. The 
staff committee made the following recommendations in a memorandum of 
March 10, 1971: 
One member of the staff be assigned the responsibility for 
providing coordination, direction, and administrative support 
for contingency planning activities that can appropriately be 
handled under this procedure. This would be a staff rather 
than a line position. 
The individual assigned would be desig-
nated the Program Director for Contingency Planning and would 
report to the Secretary of the Board, who has the overall co-
ordinating responsibility for the activities of the Board's 
staff. 
Each division and office appoint a Contingency Planning Officer. 
The Contingency Planning Officers would meet regularly with the 
Program Director to review the progress of contingency planning 
under way, and to suggest areas where further contingency plan-
ning might be useful. 
Task forces be established on an ad hoc basis by the Board or 
by senior staff when problems emerge that need to be handled 
on this basis. Membership of the task forces would be tailored 
to fit skills to the problem. The Division Contingency Planning 
Officers' functions would be separate from the tasks of any mem-
bers of the divisions' staff who might be operating as members 
of various task forces. 
The Program Director for Contingency Planning be responsible 
for the throughput of all contingency planning projects--to 
catalog suggestions as to areas in which contingency planning 
might be useful, to confer with Contingency Planning Officers 
of the appropriate divisions regarding commitment of resources 
to carry on the planning, to monitor the progress of planning 
in coordination with Division Contingency Planning Officers, 
and to establish and maintain a useful file of completed con-
tingency plans. 

744 
3/30/71 
-12-
Contingency plans to the extent possible be integrated with 
the Board's short and long-range planning. The plans would 
include some estimate of the time range within which they might 
be required, and, where appropriate, would include estimates 
of staff and other resources that might be necessary to imple-
ment the plans. 
The recommendations were approved unanimously and Gordon B. 
Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator and Assistant Secretary, was 
.designated to serve also as Program Director for Contingency Planning. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Testimony on S. 1201. There had been distributed a draft of 
statement to be presented by Chairman Burns on Wednesday, March 31, 
before the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions of the Senate Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs with regard to bill S. 1201. The 
five sections of that bill would, respectively, extend for a two-year 
Period the authority first granted in 1966 for flexible, coordinated 
regulation of rates payable on time and savings deposits; remove the 
time limitation on the authority of the President to establish voluntary 
Programs, including programs for restraining credit, under the Defense 
• , -
Production Act; extend the authority granted to the President in the 
Economic Stabilization Act of 1970 to impose mandatory controls over 
Prices, rents, wages, and salaries; authorize the Board of Governors to 
rcquire member banks to maintain supplemental reserves against assets; 
amend the standby authority for selective credit controls granted 
by the Credit Control Act of 1969. 

745 
3/30/71 
-12-
Except with respect to section 4 of the bill, suggestions for 
changes in the draft testimony, although quite numerous, were generally 
speaking at the technical level. The principal discussion, therefore, 
was with regard to section 4, under which the Board would be authorized 
to require member banks to maintain supplemental reserves against assets, 
with a view to facilitating flows of credit into six enumerated special 
uses, including the financing of housing. 
It developed that there was unanimous agreement that the Board 
should recommend in the statement against the enactment of section 4 of 
the bill at this time, and with the view that much further study was 
needed before reserve requirements were used as a vehicle for avoiding 
unwanted selective effects of general monetary restraint. 
Governor 
Brimmer was more favorably inclined in principle than other members of 
the Board to some kind of supplementary reserve requirement with vari-
able ratios to influence credit flows. He was scheduled to appear before 
the Subcommittee, at a later date than the Chairman, and it was under-
stood that at such time he would present his personal views on the 
subject in more detail. However, insofar as the basic statement in 
the Chairman's testimony was concerned, namely, that in the Board's 
view section 4 of S. 1201 should not be enacted at this time, Governor 
Brimmer joined with the other members of the Board. 
(Note: It was 
understood that a member of the staff would check, if possible, with 
Governor Maisel to ascertain that he concurred.) 

746 
3/30/71 
-12-
Accordingly, the position to be taken with respect to section 4 
of the bill having been established, it was understood that the draft 
statement would be reviewed generally in the light of the various sugges-
tions made at this meeting and that the statement would then be presented 
in a final form satisfactory to the Chairman. 
Note: The testimony included a statement, in which all Board 
members concurred, that "As I suggested earlier this month in testifying 
befo re the full Committee, a multi-faceted incomes polciy is called for 
to improve the functioning of our labor and product markets--a policy 
that the Board believes should include a Wage-Price Review Board. Such 
a board, with power to mobilize public opinion in support of voluntary 
efforts to curb inflationary wage and price actions, would be more in 
harmony with our traditions than would mandatory controls, which should 
be used only as a last resort." 
Several members of the staff who had been present for the discus-
sion of the Chairman's testimony withdrew at this point. Miss Hart of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation, Mr. Stoffels of the Division 
°f Research and Statistics, and Mr. Plotkin of the Legal Division joined 
the meeting, along with Messrs. Oltman and Houholis of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York. 
Amendments to Regulations G and U. The Board had been asked to 
grant an exemption under the margin regulations for a pending loan or 
loans to F. I. duPont, Glore Forgan & Co. The funds would be supplied by 

747 
3/30/71 
-12-
a member bank to PHMFG Corporation, a corporation founded by Mr. Ross 
Perot and associates for the purpose of extending credit to the duPont 
firm last December. According to Perot representatives, the member 
bank had expressed unwillingness to make the credit available unless 
the Board ruled that the credit was exempt from margin requirements. 
The Board had statutory authority to grant such an exemption "in the 
public interest and for the protection of investors," but only by 
general regulation. 
It was recommended by the staff in a memorandum dated March 26, 
1971, that the Board adopt amendments to margin regulations G and U, 
along the lines of attached drafts, under which an exemption could be 
granted for the proposed loan or loans upon certification by the Secu-
rities Investor Protection Corporation that a situation existed as to 
the financial condition of the duPont firm indicating the advisability 
°f such action. 
Discussion established that the proposed amendments to Regula-
tions G and U were general in nature, so that action could be taken 
thereunder not only in the case presently under consideration but in 
similar si tuations that might arise from time to time in which such 
action was determined to be in the public interest. The discussion 
also established that the appropriate procedure to be followed in this 
^stance would be to make the final adoption of the proposed amendments 

748 
3/30/71 
-12-
contingent upon the completion of a satisfactory exchange of correspon-
dence with the Securities Investor Protection Corporation with respect 
to the duPont case. 
The following actions were then approved by unanimous vote: 
(1) 
the sending of a letter to the Chairman of SIPC requesting that the 
Corporation certify to the Board the existence of a situation with 
respect to the financial condition of the duPont firm such as would 
make it necessary or appropirate for the Board to grant the requested 
exemption from margin requirements for the loan or loans made to provide 
capital for the firm; (2) upon the receipt of such certification, announce-
ment of the adoption of the proposed amendments to Regulations G and U; 
(3) approval, pursuant to the amendments, of the application of PHMFG 
Corporation for an exemption from margin requirements in connection with 
its plan to obtain one or more loans for the purpose of providing capital 
ito F. I. duPont, Glore Forgan & Co. 
Note: Attached as Item No. 6 is a copy of the letter sent to the 
Chairman of SIPC. 
SIPC advised on April 2, 1971, that the requested cer-
tification had been made. Accordingly, a press release was issued on the 
same day announcing the amendments to RegulationsG and U, effective 
March 30, 1971, and the Board's approval, pursuant to the amendments 
and the certification by SIPC, of the application of PHMFG Corporation. 
•'Copies of the press release, the amendments to Regulations G and U, and 
the order reflecting approval of the application by PHMFG Corporation 
are attached under Item No. 7. 

3/30/71 
-11-
Miss Hart and Messrs. Oltman and Houholis then left the room. 
Margin credit and stock market developments. Mr. Stoffels 
reviewed recent margin credit and stock market developments, his comments 
being based on a memorandum dated March 29, 1971, a copy of which has 
been placed in the Board's files. 
Certain members of the staff who had attended previously during 
today's meeting returned to the room at this time. 
Discount rate. There were pending before the Board actions by 
the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia (on March 4 
and 18), Chicago (on March 11 and 25), and Kansas City (on February 25 
and March 11 and 25) establishing, subject to review and determination 
by the Board of Governors, a discount rate of 4-1/2 rather than 4-3/4 
per cent. A discussion of factors involved in a discount rate reduction 
at th is time was contained in a memorandum from the Division of Research 
and Statistics dated March 11, 1971, a copy of which has been placed in 
the Board's files. 
Chairman Burns referred to previous Board discussions of the 
discount rate and went on to note that consideration was currently being 
given by the Treasury to a foreign offering. From all of the evidence 
he could gather, a discount rate move at this particular juncture might 
well be interpreted abroad in such as a way as to risk endangering the 
success of the Treasury offer. 

750 
3/30/71 
-12-
In view of the circumstances cited by the Chairman, all members 
of the Board present indicated that they would not look with favor on 
discount rate action now. 
Some members indicated that if the Treasury 
problem were not a factor, they would be inclined to approve a reduction 
in the discount rate, while other members were either noncommittal or 
noted that they would have reservations about such a move in any event, 
particularly in the light of recent domestic interest rate developments. 
Accordingly, no action was taken with respect to the pending 
discount rate proposals. 
The Chairman also referred to the distribution of a memorandum 
dated March 15, 1971, from the Division of Research and Statistics, a 
copy of which has been placed in the Board's files, discussing the 
possibility of a reserve requirement reduction, patterned in one of 
several different ways, with a view to providing for some of the current 
expansion in reserves while minimizing downward pressures on short-term 
interest rates. 
(There had also been distributed a memorandum from the 
staff dated March 18 concerning the effects of a different formula for 
a reserve requirement cut that had been suggested by Governor Maisel; 
a copy of that memorandum also has been placed in the files.) 
In response to a question by the Chairman, Board members indi-
cated that they were not disposed to enter into a discussion of the 

751 
3/30/71 
-13-
reserve requirement problem at this time. Accordingly, consideration 
of that question was deferred. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

t-N 
Item No. y 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
V/ASMIUGTON, D. C. 20551 
March 30, 1971 
3/30/71 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, Jr. 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D.C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
I am writing in response to your request for the Borad's 
views on S.J. Res. 55, to provide a temporary extension 
of certain provisions of law relating to interest rates and 
cost-of-living stabilization. 
The Board recommends that the President approve the 
resolution. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
: 

Item No 
3/30/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
' WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Hatter of the Application of 
VALLEY BANCORPORATION, 
1 
Appleton, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of GO 
per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Farmers and Merchants 
Bank, Weyauwega, Wisconsin. 
i 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Valley Bancorporation, Appletoi 
Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Farmers and Merchants Bank, Weyauwega, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Wisconsin 
Commissioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation 
The Commissioner did not object to approval of the application. 

-2-
751 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 7, 1970 (35 Federal Register 17225), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 30, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, llaisel, and 
Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

755 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
VALLEY BANCORPORATION, APPLETON, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FARMERS AND MERCHANTS BANK, 
WEYAUWEGA, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 
per cent or more of the voting shares of Farmers and Merchants Bank, 
Weyauwega, Wisconsin ("F & M Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
of receipt of the application to the Wisconsin Commissioner of Banking, 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner did not 
object to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 

756 
-2-
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen CQmpetition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or x^hich in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the effect of the transaction in 
meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In 
each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
« 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
is the seventh largest banking organization and seventh largest bank 
holding company in Wisconsin by virtue of its control of nine banks with 
aggregate deposits of approximately $116 million, representing 1.3 
1/ 
per cent of the commercial deposits in the State. 
Consummation of 
the proposal would not significantly affect concentration of deposits 
on a State-wide basis nor would it affect Applicant's relative position 
among the largest banking organizations in the State. 
F & M Bank ($7 million of deposits) is the only bank in the 
city of Weyauwega, which is about 31 miles west of Appleton and is in 
the southeastern portion of Waupaca County. F & M Bank, with about 
15 per cent of market deposits, is the fourth smallest of the seven 
banking organizations in its market area, which encompasses the southern 
half of Waupaca County and extends eight miles south into northern 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding company 
acquisitions approved by the Board through 
February 28, 1971. 

757 
-2-
portions of Waushara and Winnebago Counties. The three larger banking 
organizations in the market together control about 60 per cent of the 
deposits in the market. Upon consummation of the proposal, six alter-
native banking organizations will remain in the market, and Applicant 
will not be represented in the principal city in the market. 
The banking office of a subsidiary of Applicant located 
nearest to F & M Bank is in Fremont, about 7 miles east of Weyauwega. 
The Fremont office ($4 million of deposits) is a small branch of Appli-
cant's lead bank, which is headquartered in Appleton. The Fremont 
office has only about 8 per cent of market deposits, making it the 
second smallest banking organization in the market. 
Weyauwega has a population of about 1,300, and Fremont has 
only 600; the intervening area is also sparsely populated. The 
two cities are separated by the Wolf River and its marshes, and the 
river is bridged at only one point in the area. This natural barrier 
prevents residents from having unrestricted access to the two banking 
offices in the area. 
There is some competition between the Fremont office and 
F & M Bank, but this competition is not regarded as substantial. 
Because of the sparse population of the area and the natural barrier 
between the banks, the proximity of the two offices has not resulted 
in the kind of direct competition that might, perhaps, be expected to 
be the case with nearby banking alternatives, F & M has sought to 
expand its service area principally in a north-south direction. 

758 
-2-
Nor is there a likelihood that consummation of the proposal 
would foreclose significant potential competition. Under the branching 
laws of Wisconsin, the Wolf River is virtually at the western perimeter 
of the permissible branching area for banks headquartered in Appleton. 
Applicant's lead bank already has four offices in a small area on 
the eastern side of the Wolf River. The economic activity of the area 
appears to be insufficient to justify the opening of new offices in the 
Fremont area, and State law prevents further expansion westward. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly 
or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any area. While the acquisition 
would eliminate some present competition, it does not appear that such 
competition is significant. The Board therefore further concludes that 
the proposal would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create 
a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects, -
Applicant's financial condition is principally related to that of its 
subsidiaries. It has recently added capital at two of its subsidiary 
banks and plans to strengthen the condition of a third. In light of 
Applicant's plans and its recent actions to implement those plans, the 
financial conditions of Applicant and its subsidiaries are regarded as 
satisfactory. Their managements are considered competent, and their 
prospects appear favorable. The financial condition, management and 
prospects of F & M Bank are regarded as satisfactory. Overall, the 
banking factors are considered consistent with approval of the application. 

Convenience and needs of the communities to be served. -
The needs of the residents of the area are apparently being adequately 
met at the present time. However, the residents should reap benefits 
as a result of consummation of the proposal. Through F & M Bank's 
affiliation with Applicant, customers of F & M Bank will be able to 
take advantage of a larger lending limit. In addition, the trust 
services offered by the Fremont office of Applicant's system will be 
made more conveniently available to customers of F & M Bank. It also 
appears likely that the economies of scale that Applicant should be 
able to effect through consummation of the proposal will result in new, 
expanded and improved services to be offered at F & M Bank, Such 
services could not ordinarily be offered by a small unaffiliated bank. 
Thus, it appears that considerations relating to the convenience and 
needs of the communities involved lend some support for approval of 
the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
March 30, 1971 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, MAISEL, AND BRIMMER 
In our opinion, consummation of the proposal will have 
an adverse competitive effect which is not outweighed by considera-
tions relating to the convenience and needs of the Weyauwega-Fremont 
community or by any other considerations. 
There can be no doubt that existing competition will be 
eliminated by consummation of the proposal. An office of Applicant's 
lead bank is located in Fremont, and this banking office is the 
nearest competitor of F & M Bank, which is located in Weyauwega. 
The Fremont office and F & M Bank are on the same road and are 
located only seven miles apart. There are no other banks in either 
Fremont or Weyauwega and none in the intervening area. The two 
principal competitors of F & M Bank are located in Waupaca, which 
is located in exactly the opposite direction from Weyauwega as 
compared to Fremont. 
The majority minimizes the significance of the proximity 
of the Fremont office to F & M Bank by referring to the natural 
barrier presented by the Wolf River. The fact is that the two 
banking offices are located in the same trade area. All that the 
Wolf River with its limited bridges does is to increase slightly 
for a few persons the distances to F & M Bank relative to the dis-
tances to the Fremont office. At the present time, many residents 
and snail businesses in the Weyauwega-Fremont area have a convenient 

761 
-2-
choice between two competing offices. The Board's action today will 
lead to the elimination of that choice for those residents. 
We think the statistics compel the conclusion that the 
Fremont office and F & M Bank are direct and substantial competitors. 
The Fremont office obtains about 14 per cent of its deposit business 
from the service area of F & M Bank, and F & M Bank obtains about 6 per 
cent of its deposit business and 8 per cent of its loan business from 
the service area of the Fremont office. The amount of business which 
F & M Bank takes away from the Fremont office is substantial. The 
deposits that F & M Bank derives in the service area of the Fremont 
office amount to 14 per cent of the deposits that the Fremont office 
derives in its own service area. The comparable statistic for loans 
is a striking 33 per cent. 
Furthermore, the number of customers in the service area of 
each bank who have taken their business to the other bank assumes 
even greater significance when we consider the well-known fact that 
the present customers of each bank are able to gain improvements in 
terms and services because each bank fears that its remaining customers 
may also switch to the other bank if improvements are not made. 
By looking to the number of competitors left in the market 
and their relative sizes, the majority finds that there will be no 
substantial diminution of existing competition. We think that, when 
we are presented with a proposal whereby Applicant seeks to acquire 
the competitor nearest to an office of one of Applicant's subsidiaries, 

-2-
762 
it is far better to emphasize the competitive situation in the 
immediate area than to look broadly to the market. However, even 
when we evaluate the effect of this proposal at the market level, 
we find that the statistics strongly support the conclusion that the 
effect of the proposal is substantially anti-competitive. At the 
present time, Applicant has about 8 per cent of market deposits, 
making it the second smallest banking organization in the market. 
Upon consummation of the proposal, Applicant's share of the market 
will be tripled, making it the largest banking organization in the 
market; and a substantial banking alternative will be eliminated. 
Indeed, under an even broader view of the relevant area, 
we find that consummation of the proposal will have significant 
anti-competitive effects. Applicant's lead bank is headquartered 
in Appleton, the nearest large city to Weyauwega. Offices of that 
bank have been established between Appleton and Weyauwega; four of 
the se are within 25 miles of Weyauwega. Consummation of the pro-
posal will facilitate Applicant's expansion westward from Appleton 
and will further entrench Applicant as the dominant banking organiza-
tion in that area. 
We find no benefits to the Weyauwega-Fremont community that 
could possibly outweigh the serious anti-ccmpetitive effect of the 
proposal. Weyauwega is a very small city (population 1,352). The 
population in the service area of F fit M Bank is estimated to be about 
5,000, and the area is characterized by slow growth. The city of 
Weyauwega has little industry; its retail business is limited and based 

largely upon the agricultural population around it. We find no evidence 
that the residents in the area need a wider range of banking services 
or that the needs they do have are not being adequately met. 
The principal benefits to the community cited by Applicant 
to accrue as a result of consummation of the proposal are the larger 
lending limit that F & M Bank can offer and the furnishing of trust 
services through the Fremont office. We do not find a significant 
need for either of these alleged benefits. If such needs do arise, 
F & M could, as it has in the past, utilize loan participations and 
the trust services of its correspondent banks. Furthermore, quite 
obviously the trust services and larger lending limit of the Fremont 
office are now available to Weyauwega-Freir.ont residents. We do not 
see how these services will be made more conveniently available by 
consummation of this proposal. 
We believe that it is not in the public interest for us to 
approve a proposal that would have the effect of serving somewhat 
better the occasional needs of a few residents of the community at 
the expense of depriving all the residents of a clear choice between 
two competing banking offices. The proposal before us would have 
that effect. 
We would, therefore, deny the application. 
March 30, 1971 

'764 
Item No. 3 
3/30/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION, 
» 
Columbus, Ohio, 
' 
for approval of the acquisition of 
' 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
1 
shares of The Citizens Banking Company, 
' 
Perrysburg, Ohio, 
» 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, 
Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Citizens Banking Company, Perrysburg, Ohio ("Citizens 
Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act,.the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 
of Banks for the State of Ohio and requested his views and recom-
mendation. The Superintendent had no objection to approval of the 
application. 

765 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 9, 1971 (36 Federal Register 2643), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the second largest banking organization and 
the largest bank holding company in Ohio, controlling 27 banks with 
deposits totaling $1.4 billion, representing 6.9 per cent of deposits 
held by all banking organizations in the State. 
(All banking data 
are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company forma-
tions and acquisitions approved by the Board through February 28, 1971.) 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank, with deposits of $12 million, would 
increase its share of deposits in the State by an insignificant amount. 
Citizens Bank operates two offices in and primarily serves the 
city of Perrysburg, which is a residential suburb 10 miles south of 
Toledo. It is the larger of two banks in Perrysburg (the smaller of 

-2-
766 
which is a branch of a $42 million bank headquartered fifteen miles 
away), the fourth largest bank in Wood County and the ninth largest 
of eleven banks in the Toledo area with 1,3 per cent of area deposits. 
Bank of Wood County, a subsidiary of the third largest bank holding 
company in Ohio, holds deposits of $42 
million and is the largest 
bank in Wood County. Four of the largest banks in the Toledo area are 
located in Toledo. The nearest subsidiaries of Applicant to Bank 
are 33 miles southwest and 47 miles southeast. It appears that none 
of Applicant's subsidiaries competes with Bank in any meaningful degree 
and considering the limitations of Ohio branching law and other facts 
of record, development of such competition appears unlikely. Based 
on the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation of the pro-
posed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any 
relevant area, but should enable Bank to compete more aggressively 
with its much larger competitors without having any adverse effects 
on the smaller banks located in the Toledo area with which it competes. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial resources 
and prospects, as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries and Bank, 
are regarded as consistant with approval of the application. Perrysburg 
is a growing residential area located less than fifteen minutes from 
downtown Toledo. Although all services are available in Toledo, affili-
ation with Applicant will enable Bank to offer trust, international 
banking and other services in the community and to expand Bank's loan 

767 
-2-
portfolio. Thus considerations relating to convenience and needs of 
the communities involved lend support to approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would be in the public interest and that the application should be 
approved• 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, iiarch 30, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, iiitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor iiaisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary • 
(SEAL) 

76' 
O 
Item No. 4 
3/30/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
EXCHANGE BANCORPORATION, INC., 
' 
Tampa, Florida, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 100 per 
1 
cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
1 
qualifying shares) of Exchange Bank of 
1 
North Winter Haven, Winter Haven, Florida, 
' 
a proposed new bank. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Exchange Bancorporation, Inc., 
Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
v°ting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of Exchange Bank of 
North Winter Haven, Winter Haven, Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking of the 

769 
-2-
State of Florida, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 5, 1971 (36 Federal Register 129), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section.3(c) of the Act including the effect of the 
Proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial re-
sources of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served and finds that: 
Applicant presently controls five banks, which hold deposits 
°f approximately $282 million, representing 2.3 per cent of total deposits 
held by Florida's commercial banks, and is the State's ninth largest bank-
ing organization and bank holding company. 
(All banking data are as of 
June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acqui-
sitions approved by the Board through February 28, 1971.) Applicant's 
acquisition of the proposed new bank would have no immediate effect on 
concentration of banking resources. 
Applicant's closest subsidiaries to Bank are Exchange National 
**ank of Winter Haven ($50 million deposits) located two miles south of 

770 
-2-
Bank's proposed location and Bank of Central Florida ($7 million deposits) 
located in Haines City, 11 miles northeast of Bank's proposed site. Two 
of the three banks with which Bank would compete are subsidiaries of bank 
holding companies both of which are larger than Applicant. It appears 
that consummation of this proposal would serve to stimulate additional 
competition; existing competition would not be affected and no significant 
potential competition would be foreclosed; nor would there be undue adverse 
effects on any competing banks. 
The banking factors with respect to Applicant, its subsidiaries 
and Bank are generally satisfactory. Although present banking needs are 
being served, the establishment of Bank would provide more convenient 
banking services to customers in the North Winter Haven area. Considera-
tions relating to the convenience and needs of the communities involved 
lend some weight toward approval of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) be-
fore the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
<b) later than three months after the date of this Order, and provided 
further that (c) Exchange Bank of North Winter Haven shall be open 
for business not later than six months after the date of this Order. The 

-2-
771 
periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended for good cause 
by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 30, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

,7'T • 
772 
B O A R D D F G • V E R N • R S 
'coiV• • 
o f t h e 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3/30/71 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
rrmrW"-' 
ADD R ESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
ggWjy^fi. ." 
TO THE BOARD 
*AL Rt^ 
• ' ' 
March 31, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to legislative referral memoranda of 
March 12 and March 23, 1971, regarding the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board draft bill on "Housing Institutions Modernization Act: of 1971". 
The bill raises many issues that are of interest and 
concern to the Board. Although the Board favors the major objec-
tive of the bill to provide more flexibility to savings and loan 
associations, we have not had adequate time to analyze thoroughly 
the bill's many details. The following outlines the major issues 
as we see them at this time and offers our preliminary comments on 
them. 
1. The bill would permit Federal savings and loan 
associations to become stock companies. It is questionable whether, 
as the material accompanying the bill suggests, an S&L would be able 
to float a stock issue during times when it is unable to attract 
funds through deposit instruments. It is also questionable whether 
capital stock is necessary to effect mergers of S&Ls. However, the 
ability to issue capital stock would add'greater flexibility to the 
financial management of S&Ls, which is desirable. Accordingly, the 
Board favors this aspect of the proposed legislation. 
In authorizing 
capital stock for S&Ls, consideration should be given to assuring that 
an association's capital is not withdrawn precipitously. For example, 
section 5199(b) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 60) prevents member 
hanks of the Federal Reserve System from paying out dividends to stock-
holders in excess of net earnings without supervisory approval. This 
and related provisions designed to assure the stability of capital 
funds should apply equally to all depositary stock companies. 

773 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
2. Under section 102 of the draft bill a Federal 
association could invest in land up to 5 per cent of its assets. 
Under section 105 of the bill the association could invest in land 
another 5 per cent of its assets (if the land is located within 
100 miles of its head office and is primarily for residential usage). 
Section 106 would authorize the association to extend builders 
unsecured credit preliminary to permanent secured financing. 
(The 
latter provision is designed to remove a competitive disadvantage 
between S&Ls and banks; however, the Board understands that banks 
limit the availability of this kind of financing to their most 
financially sound contractor customers and for large development 
projects.) The Board believes that the combined authority under 
these provisions is potentially dangerous in the light of the market 
risks involved. 
3. The bill would increase from a ratio of 12 to 1 to a 
ratio of 20 to 1 the permissible amount of Home Loan Bank borrowings 
by a member S&L relative to the member's stock investment in such 
Bank. The Board believes that this additional flexibility for S&Ls 
is in the public interest. 
» 
4. Section 402 of the bill would provide complete federal 
deposit insurance for public funds in insured institutions. The 
Board's staff is developing and analyzing the arguments for and 
against this proposal for presentation to the House Banking Committee 
during forthcoming hearings on H.R. 5700. In the meantime, we are 
enclosing a copy of a letter of April 26, 1968, in which the Board 
expressed its views on this subject in connection with an earlier 
similar legislative proposal. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

7 74 
Item No. 6 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E BOARD OP G O V E R N O R S 
3/30/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
March 30, 1971 
Mr. Byron D. Woodside, Chairman, 
Securities Investor Protection Corp., 
Washington, D. C. 
2.0549 
Dear Chairman Woodside: 
As Mr. Charles Partee has informally discussed with you, the Board 
of Governors has decided to adopt amendments, which would be effec-
tive immediately, to its securities credit Regulations G "Securities 
Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers", and U 
"Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin 
Stocks", under which the Board can exempt loans to brokers and 
dealers from the restrictions imposed by the regulations in situa-
tions where the Securities Investor Protection Corporation certifies 
to the Board that conditions exist which warrant;, such action and 
the Board finds that the action would be in the public interest 
and for the protection of investors. 
Copies of the amendments, in 
draft form, are enclosed for your convenient reference. 
The Board of Governors has received from counsel for PHMFG 
Corporation (PHM), a District of Columbia corporation, an applica-
tion, pursuant to the regulations as amended (sections 207.1(f)(3) 
of Regulation G and 221.2(1) of Regulation U; 12 CFR 207.1(f)(3) 
and 12 CFR 2.21.2(1)), for such an exemption with respect to a loan 
of $30 million which PHM proposes to obtain from the Chase Manhattan 
Bank and Trust Company (Chase) for the purpose of providing capital 
to the broker/dealer firm of duPont Glore Forgan & Co. (duPont). A 
copy of the application is enclosed herewith. 
Proceeds of the loan would be used to retire an indebtedness of $10 
million already incurred by PliM for the purpose of extending credit 
to duPont. An additional $20 million would be used to purchase the 
assets, subject Co an assumption of the liabilities, of duPont. In 
exchange, PHM would receive stock and debentures of a corporation 
which would change its name to become duPont: Glore Forgan Incorporated. 
The capital structure of the resulting corporation would embrace 
$3 million in common stock, to be held by PHM, $23 million in pre-
ferred stock, $3 million of which would be held by PHM and $20 million 
by the persons presently having a financial interest in duPont, and 

Mr. Byron D. Woodside, Chairman 
2. 
$37 million in subordinated debentures redeemable on a sliding 
scale, but with a minimum maturity of one year. 
These debentures 
would represent $14 million in new money to be provided by PHM, 
$10 million loaned by PHM in December 1970, $5 million in new money 
to be provided by various other broker/dealer firms, and $8 million 
in subordinated notes and debentures presently in the duPont firm. 
There would also be warrants held by the preferred shareholders,-
exchangeable ultimately for voting common stock in such a fashion 
that PHM would at no time hold less than 80 per cent of the voting 
stock of duPont. Applicant alleges that if such a nev; infusion of 
capital is not made, the result would be the liquidation of duPont, 
and urges that such liquidation would impair the confidence of 
investors in the securities markets and be detrimental to the public 
interest. 
While terms of the loan have not yet been definitely fixed, it 
appears probable that the loan would be for a term of five years, 
with repayments beginning after the third year. Interest on the 
loan would be one per cent above the prime rate, changing with 
that rate, advance repayments would be required if duPont had 
profits in excess of a predetermined amount, and there would be 
1 no penalty for prepayment. 
» 
Under the provisions of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 
1970, the SIPC is to be notified immediately when the Securities 
Exchange Commission or any sclf-regulatory organization is aware 
of facts which lead it to believe that any broker or dealer subject 
to its regulation is in or is approaching financial difficulty.' 
In addition, reports of inspections of members of SIPC by the self-
regulatory authority of which such member is a member are available 
to SIPC (sections 5 and 9 of the Act). 
The Board of Governors hereby requests that, .on the basis of such 
information and pursuant to its statutory responsibility for the 
protection of investors, the SIPC certify to the Board of Governors 
whether, in its opinion, conditions exist as to the financial 
condition of duPont which would make it necessary or appropriate 
for the Board of Governors to grant the requested exemption. In 
determining whether such conditions exist, the SIPC may, of course, . 
wish to consult with the Securities and Exchange Commission and 
any self-regulatory organization of which duPont is a member. 
If SIPC is prepared no issue such a certification in this case, the 
. 
Board of Governors proposes, on receipt of such certification, to 
issue an Order, under its newly adopted amendments, exempting the 
proposed loan to PHM provided that the proceeds of the loan are 
used to contribute capital to duPont in the manner described above, 
and that proceeds of any capital withdrawn from duPont by PHM shall 
be applied to the reduction of the loan. 

V 
77C 
Mr. Byron I). Woodside, Chairman 
3. 
The Board of Governors appreciates the cooperation of the SIPC in 
reaching an appropriate determination as to the application described 
above. In view of the urgency of the condition of duPont, as repre-
sented therein, the Board of Governors would also very much appreciate 
any expedited treatment which the SIPC may deem it advisable to give 
the matter. 
Sincerely, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

For immediate release 
Ap-ril 2, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today amendment of its Regulations G and U to implement a provision of 
the Securities Exchange Act permitting an exemption from margin require-
ments for certain loans that the Board may deem necessary or appropriate 
in the public interest or for the protection of investors. 
The amendments, which carry out a provision of Section 7(d)(E) 
of the Act, specify that the Board may exempt from margin requirements a 
loan used to extend credit or provide capital to a broker or dealer pro-
vided that the Securities Investor Protection Corporation certifies that 
circumstances exist which make the grant of an exemption appropriate. 
Regulation U applies to credit extended by banks for the purpose 
of purchasing or carrying margin stocks while Regulation G applies to 
such credit extended by persons other than banks or brokers and dealers. 
Acting pursuant to the amendments, the Board approved the 
application of PHMFG Corporation, Washington, D.C., for an exemption from 
margin requirements in connection with its plan to obtain one or more 
loans for the purpose of providing capital to F4'I. duPont, Glore Forgan 
& Co., a registered broker-dcaler. 
The approval followed certification to the Board by the Securities 
Investor Protection Corporation that circumstances exist as to the financial 
condition of duPont which make it appropriate for thp.exemption to be 
granted. 
Attached arc copies of the amendments to Regulations G and U and 
the Board's Order, 

778 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs, G and U] 
PART 207--SECURITIES CREDIT BY PERSONS 
OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, OR DEALERS 
PART 221--CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE 
OF PURCHASING OR CARRYING MARGIN STOCK 
Authority to Approve Certain Loans Under 
Appropriate Circumstances 
1. Effective immediately § 207.1(f) is amended by adding a 
new subparagraph (3) as follows: 
5 207.1 General Rule. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(f) Credit extended to person subject to Regulation T. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(3) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may 
by Order exempt from the prohibitions of this paragraph (f) and the re-
quirements of this part, either unconditionally or upon specified terms 
and conditions or for stated periods, any loan for the purpose of 
making a loan or providing capital to a person who is subject to Part 220 
of this Chapter (Regulation T), upon a finding that the granting of such 
an exemption is necessary or appropriate, in the public interest or for 
the protection of investors; Provided, That the Securities Investor Pro-
tection Corporation shall have certified to the Board that such action 
is appropriate under the circumstances. 

2, Effective immediately, § 221.2 is amended by deleting 
the period at the end of paragraph (k) and inserting in its place 
and", and by adding a neu paragraph (1) as follows: 
§ 221,2 Exceptions to General Rule, 
Notwithstanding the provisions of 5 221,1, a bank may extend 
and may maintain any credit for the purpose specified in § 221,1, with-
out regard to the limitations prescribed therein, or in § 221,3(t), if 
the credit comes within any of the following descriptions, 
i'f 
vV 
vV 
* 
Vr 
(1) Any loan for the purpose of making a loan or provid-
ire capital to a person who is subject to Part 220 of this Chapter 
(Regulation T), which loan has been exempted by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, by Order, from the requirements of this 
part, either unconditionally or upon specified terms and conditions 
or for stated periods, upon a finding that the granting of such an 
exemption is necessary or appropriate, in the public interest or for 
the protection of investors; Provided, That the Securities Investor 
Protection Corporation shall have certified to the Board that such 
action is appropriate under the circumstances. 
3a, These amendments are issued pursuant to section 7(d)(E) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.5,C, 73g(d)(E). The 
changes are to authorize the Board, upon certification by the Securitie 

HN 
< 
* 3 -
Investor Protection Corporation that circumstances exist which warrant 
such action, to exempt a loan for the purpose of making a loan or • 
providing capital to a broker or dealer subject to Part 220 (Reg. T) 
from the restrictions imposed by Parts 207 and 221 (Regs. G and U). 
b. The requirements of section 553(b) of title 5, United 
States Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred 
effective date were not followed in connection with these amendments 
because following such requirements would have prevented the Board's 
action from becoming effective as promptly as necessary in the 
public interest. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 30, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

781 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE TllE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
PHMFG CORPORATION, 
Washington, D. C. 
for an exemption from Securities Credit 
Regulations in connection with certain 
bank loans for the purpose of acquiring 
all the assets of F. I. duPont, Glore 
Forgan & Co. 
ORDER EXEMPTING CERTAIN LOANS BY BANKS 
FROM SECURITIES CREDIT REGULATIONS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 7(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g(d)) 
and sections 207.1(f)(3) of Federal Reserve Regulation G (12 CFR 207.1(f)(3)) 
and 221.2(1) of Federal Reserve Regulation U (12 CFR 221.2(1,)), 
the application of PHMFG Corporation, Washington, D. C. ("Applicant), a 
corporation organized and existing under the laws of the District of 
Columbia, for an exemption from the application of securities credit 
regulations in the circumstances set forth below. 
Applicant proposes to obtain one or more loans from a bank or 
banks not exceeding $30 million in the aggregate which loan or loans will 
be secured by stock and the proceeds thereof used by Applicant to provide 

782 
-2-
capital to F. I. duPont, Glore Forgan & Co. ("duPont"), a registered 
broker/dealer and member firm of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. In 
connection with the proposed loan or loans, duPont will become a corporation, 
- and Applicant will become and remain a controlling person of such corporation, 
as defined in a rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
(Rule 12b-2(17 CFR 240.12b-2)). 
As required by sections 207.1(f)(3) of Regulation G and 
221.2(j_) of Regulation U, the Board has obtained certification 
by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation ("SIPC") that circum-
stances exist as to the financial condition of duPont which make it 
appropriate for the exemption to be granted. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 7(d) of the Act and in addition has obtained 
such certification by the SIPC. Upon such consideration, the Board finds 
and concludes that an exemption from securities credit regulations for the 
purpose of providing the substantial infusion of capital into duPont, as 
contemplated by Applicant, would be appropriate in the public interest and 
for the protection of investors: Provided, That all of the proceeds of such 
loan or loans as are covered by this Order are contributed to duPont as 
capital (as defined in Rule 325 of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.), that 
the proceeds of any withdrawal of such capital from duPont by Applicant shall 
be used to reduce or retire said loan or loans, and that Applicant becomes 
and remains a controlling person of duPont as aforesaid. It is the Board's 
judgment that subject to such conditions, the application should be approved, 

783 
Ac cordingly, it is hereby ordered, for the reasons set forth 
in the findings summarized above, that said application be andT hereby is 
approved subject to the provisos hereinabove stated: And provided further, 
That the said loan or loans and related transactions are consummated within 
90 calendar days following the date of this Order, or within such extended 
period of time as may be granted by the Board upon application therefor 
filed 5 days prior to expiration of the said 90-day period. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 2, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
