MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 15, 1971 

m 
103 
1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Friday, January 15, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 2/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr„ Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
v'^p. 
Lb.. 
fc vS • 
d»V 
Bank holding companies. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
' ^h-*;: h,"» '' 
... i , : • • 
> i > 
• 
•• • • ( ; 
the Federal Reserve Banks transmitting a letter to be sent to the 
chief executive officer of each bank in the respective districts to aid 
«)£: v ' . q u ; 1 -« 
' • 
; • •• 
• 
" 
• • - 
( 
rhp 
* 
" - 
• 
• 
iff' 
- 
- r'l 
ascertaining the identity of companies that would be required to 
He* 
- 
u 
. . < > ... ; ,•: 
.... 
,,, .... 
. 
Agister as bank holding companies by June 29, 1971, pursuant to the 
Provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act as amended. A copy is 
a t
tached as Item No. 1. 
A/ Withdrew from morning session at point indicated in minutes and 
returned for afternoon session. 
& 
Attended morning session only. 

i d i 
1/15/71 
-2-
Euro-dollars. Yesterday the Board had agreed upon an amendment 
to Regulation M, Foreign Activities of National Banks, that would per-
mit member banks to count toward the maintenance of their reserve-free 
Euro-dollar bases any funds invested by their foreign branches in 
Export-Import Bank special securities under a program expected to be 
announced today. 
The Board was now advised that Mr. Paul Volcker, Under Secretary 
of the Treasury for Monetary Affairs, had suggested that the Board 
expand the amendment in order to permit U.S. banks whose foreign branches 
Purchased the special securities not only to maintain but to increase 
their reserve-free bases. Mr. Volcker was going to have a discussion 
w
ith a group of bankers today that might shed more light on the degree 
to which banks would be interested in increasing their bases. If it 
developed that there would be a substantial interest on the part of 
the banks, he argued that permitting them to increase their bases would 
be helpful to the balance of payments and could be justified on grounds 
°f equity. It was understood, however, that in any event there should 
be no difficulty in selling the Export-Import Bank issue, which would 
be appropriately priced. 
There followed a discussion of various aspects of the proposal 
a
dvanced by Mr. Volcker. This included reference to the question of 
the desirability on policy grounds of encouraging banks to increase 
their reserve-free bases, and some members of the Board expressed the 

105 
1/15/71 
-3-
view that the basic objective, at least for the longer run, should be a 
gradual erosion. It was noted that adoption of Mr. Volcker's proposal 
would have implications with respect to the offering terms of Federal 
Reserve matched sale-purchase transactions, should such transactions 
later be undertaken. One member took the position that there was much 
to be said, in designing the program to moderate the further repayment 
of Euro-dollar borrowings by U.S. banks, in favor of severing the link-
age with the historical reserve-free bases of the banks. 
However, 
arguments that could be made in support of Mr. Volcker's proposal were 
also recognized. There was some discussion as to how the amendment to 
the Board's regulation could be reconstructed to meet Mr. Volcker's 
objective without creating technical problems, and the staff was asked 
to consider that question further. 
It was then agreed to have additional discussion of the matter 
this afternoon after Under Secretary Volcker had held his meeting with 
the banker group. 
Discount rate. 
It was noted that the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston had established, subject to review and determina-
tion by the Board, a rate of 5 per cent (rather than 5-1/4 per cent) 
0r
* advances and discounts to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of 
the Federal Reserve Act. It was understood, however, that a feeling 
e
xisted among the directors of some Reserve Banks that it would be 
better not to move too hastily to reduce the discount rate a second 
time. 

I C C 
1/15/71 
-4-
In discussion, certain factors bearing on the timing of a 
discount rate reduction were mentioned. The Treasury was expected to 
announce the terms of its forthcoming financing on January 20, which 
meant that even-keel considerations would be a factor for some time 
thereafter. Also, the President's State of the Union and budget 
messages would be presented around the end of this month, along with 
the report of the Council of Economic Advisers, and there was a ques-
tion whether it would be advisable to announce a discount rate action at 
that juncture. These and related considerations suggested that discount 
rate action should either be taken promptly or deferred for several 
weeks. Some Board members suggested that attention might appropriately 
he given to the subject around the eighth of February, and there was a 
general indication of reluctance to let the matter lie on the table much 
beyond that date. 
An argument was presented in favor of taking discount rate action 
Promptly. This was that such action could be justified in terms of the 
relationship of the discount rate to short-term market interest rates 
a n
d that the proposed cut of 1/4 of a percentage point would be essen-
t i a l l y a technical adjustment of the kind that the System discount study 
bad envisaged might be made with some frequency. Also, there would be 
the advantage of clearing the air prior to the forthcoming Presidential 
messages, and the rate probably could then be left unchanged for some 
little time. 

1/15/71 
-5-
An adverse argument was that there might be an appearance of 
undue pressure if directors of Reserve Banks were encouraged to take 
rate action except on their own initiative. Also, a discount rate cut, 
coming so close on the heels of the previous rate reduction, might add 
to the concern already existing abroad, particularly about the expan-
sive nature of U.S. fiscal policy, and a continued decline of short-term 
market interest rates would tend to compound the Euro-dollar problem. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board was advised that 
a reduction in the commercial bank prime lending rate had just been 
* » » . 
announced. 
It was understood that the Board would give further considera-
tion to the discount rate early next week. 
There followed comments on operations undertaken by the Manager 
of the System Open Market Account in the light of the directive issued 
by the Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting on Tuesday. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting and research 
staff members entered the room to present the weekly review of economic 
and financial developments. 
Copies of the statistical materials pre-
pared for the purpose of the review have been placed in the Board's 
files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2^30 p.m. with all Board members except Governors Brimmer and Sherrill 
Present. Staff members in attendance included Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 

1/15/71 
-5-
Bernard, Leonard, Partee, Robert Solomon, Hackley, Hexter, Molony, 
Coyne, O'Connell, Sanders, Axilrod, and Gemmill. 
Euro-dollars. Mr. Solomon, who had attended today's meeting of 
Under Secretary Volcker and a group of representative bankers, reported 
that the bankers appeared pleased to learn of the Government's move to 
moderate the repayment of Euro-dollar liabilities through the offering 
of a special issue of Export-Import Bank securities. 
He said that the 
question whether banks should be permitted to increase their reserve-
free bases through purchases of the Eximbank securities had been raised 
by one banker but that the idea had not appeared to generate much 
enthusiasm and some arguments had been presented against it. In the 
circumstances, Mr. Solomon saw no particular reason for the Board to 
broaden the scope of the amendment to Regulation M that the Board had 
decided to adopt yesterday. 
After discussion based on Mr. Solomon's report, it was the 
unanimous view of the Board members that the action taken yesterday on 
Regulation M should be allowed to stand. Although Governor Robertson 
joined in this view, he commented that he did not believe the need for 
the Governmental program to discourage the further repayment of Euro-
dollar borrowings had been clearly demonstrated and that in his opinion 
the wiser course might have been to allow the funds to flow out. 
Mr. Solomon then suggested that the Board might want to amend 
its action on Regulation M in one technical way that should be of 

i O S 
1/15/71 
-7-
benefit to some of the smaller banks. The suggestion derived from the 
fact that the amendments adopted last November to the Board's regula-
tions with respect to reserves against foreign branch deposits gave 
banks with a minimum (3 per cent of deposits) reserve-free base an 
opportunity to build up their bases by acquiring Euro-dollar liabilities 
until January 20, 1971, when the automatic downward adjustment feature 
applicable to those bases would begin to apply. The Board might now 
want to extend that period for four weeks, through the computation 
Period ending February 17, 1971. 
Board members agreed that such an adjustment would be in order. 
Since it was of a minimal nature, question was raised whether a new vote 
w
as needed. It was concluded, however, that the action to amend Regula-
tion M should be recorded as of today, effective January 15, 1971, with 
the understanding that in response to any inquiries it might be stated 
that there was reason to believe that the other members of the Board 
Would have concurred. 
A draft of the press statement proposed to be issued by the 
Treasury with respect to the issuance of Eximbank securities was then 
read.—'' Several suggestions were made, against that background, regard-
l n
8 the text of the release that would be issued by the Board. 
The amendment to Regulation M was then approved unanimously, 
e
ffective January 15, 1971, and the issuance of a press release was 
•i/ The press release was eventually issued by the Export-Import Bank 
rather 
than the Treasury. 

1 1 0 
1/15/71 
-8-
authorized. Copies of the press release, as issued, and of the amendment 
to Regulation M are attached under Item No. 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Ill 
..••00fCov-.. 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y S 1 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item N o . 1 
1/15/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 18, 1971 
Dear Sir: 
In order that all potential registrants under the Bank 
Holding Company Act, as amended, may be informed as to their 
responsibilities under the Act, it is suggested that the enclosed 
letter be sent to the chief executive officer of each bank in 
your Federal Reserve District, 
ixki* 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 
T
0 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF ALL BANKS 
Section 5(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as 
recently amended,, requires that any company (which, you will note, 
includes partnerships) that has control of a bank, either directly 
°r indirectly, must register with the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System as a bank holding company by June 29, 1971. 
A copy of the Act is enclosed and the terms "bank holding company," 
company," and "control" are defined in Section 2 of the Act. 
If your bank is owned by a company as defined in the Act, 
or if 
you think it may be owned or controlled in such manner, please 
'inform this Bank by February 10, 1971. It would be appreciated if 
you would provide the correct corporate title of the holding company 
and the address of the individual or company to which registration 
statement forms should be forwarded. If you have any questions you 
m a
y contact (appropriate name and telephone number). 
Enclosure 

Item No. 2 
F
°r immediate release 
1/15/71 
January 15, 19 71 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
tended its regulations to permit U.S. banks to count toward mainte-
of their reserve-free Eurodollar bases any funds invested by 
t h 0 1 r
 °
V e r s e a s
 R a n c h e s in Export-Import Bank securities offered under 
t h e
 Program announced today by the Export-Import Bank. 
The amendment is a further step resulting from the Board's 
c
°ntinuing review of measures needed to temper the adverse impact of 
E
urodoll a r outflows on the U.S. balance of payments. 
Eurodollar borrowings by a member bank are subject to a 20 
Per cent- >> 
- 
reserve requirement to the extent that they exceed a bank's 
Reserve- free base. 
For those banks that have had a minimum (3 per cent of 
epos i t c \ 
reserve-free base, the Beard postponed for four weeks, through 
C
°
m p U t a t i
™ P « l o d ending February 17, 1971, the application of the 
t 0
"
a t i c 
d
°wnward adjustment of their bases. 
Attached is a copy of the amendment to the Board's Regulation M 
^hich governs the foreign activities of member banks. 
d' 
the 

m 
114 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A — E O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 213—FOREIGN ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL BANKS 
[Reg. M] 
Reserves Against Eurodollar Borrowings 
1. Effective January 15, 1971, § 213.7(a) of Regulation M 
l s
 amended to read as follows: 
® 
Reserves against foreign branch deposits. 
(a) Transactions with parent bank. During each week of 
four-week period beginning October 16, 1969, and during each 
U e
ek of each successive four-week ("maintenance") period, a member 
kank having one or more foreign branches shall maintain with the 
^serve Bank of its district, as a reserve against its foreign 
tfl
nch deposits, a daily average balance equal to 20 per cent of 
th 
e
 amount by which the daily average total of 
(1) net balances due from its domestic offices to such 
i n c h e s , and 
(2) assets (including participations) held by such branches 
^tch were acquired from its domestic offices,""^ 
the four-week ("computation") period ending on the Wednesday 
C e
e n days before the beginning of the maintenance period, exceeds 
greater of 
^ d e l u d i n g (1) assets so held on June 26, 1969, representing credit 
e
 t e
nded to persons not residents of the United States and (2) credit 
tended or renewed by a domestic office after June 26, 1969, to persons 
e
0 t
 residents of the United States to the extent such credit was not 
tended in order to replace credit outstanding on that date which was 
Prior to its original maturity (see definition of United States 
6 s
ident in footnote 9). 

115 
-2" 
(i) the lowest corresponding daily average total—^ for 
ar
*y computation period ending after November 25, 1970, or 
(ii) 3 per cent of the member bank's daily average deposits 
subject to § 204.5(a) of this chapter (Regulation D) during the 
C u
rrent computation period, or the lowest corresponding daily average 
8/ 
any computation period beginning on or after January 21, 
and aft er the bank has had a foreign branch in operation for 
11,0
 
than 90 days, whichever amount is the lesser: 
S^&vided, That the applicable base computed under (i) or (ii) shall 
reduced by the daily average amount of any deposits of the member 
b a
nk subject to § 204.5(c) of this chapter (Regulation D) during the 
imputation period. 
. * 
2a. The change provides a means by which a member bank 
^ 
detain its reserve-free base with respect to its Eurodollar 
G r o w i n g s from its foreign branches by counting within its 
a s e
 the amount of purchases by its foreign branches of certain 
^^Port-Import Bank obligations. 
i n c l u d i n g the principal amount paid by a foreign branch of the 
by .
e r L a n l ;
 f°
r
 obligations held by such branch that were purchased 
its
 11 f r 0 n i 
t h e 
E x
P
o r C
- I m p o r t Bank of the United States pursuant to 
ten
 p r o g r a r n
 announced on January 15, 1971, and excluding assets 
S
t a t -
6 S e n t i n S
 credit extended to persons not residents of the United 

b. The requirements of section 553(b) of title 5, 
fifute t e
d States Code, with respect to notice, public participation, 
a t l d
 deferred effective date were not followed in connection with 
tht 
s
 amendment because the Board found that following such 
pr
°cedures with respect to this amendment would be contrary to 
public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
By order of the Ronrd of. Governors, January 15, 1971. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
