609 
5-67) 
Minutes for September 28, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the tninutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Ul 

O / <f 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 28, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Craig and Plotkin, and Miss Hart of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Greenspun and Shull, and Miss Stockwell 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sanford of the Division of Examinations 
Application to establish branch in London (Item No. 1). There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations 
recommending favorably with respect to an application by United Cali-
fornia Bank, Los Angeles, California, for permission to establish a 
branch in London, England. 

3772 
9/28/67 
-2-
Governor Brimmer referred to a statement by the applicant that 
the London office would enable United California Bank to meet better 
the needs of its existing customers, which could not now be fully ser-
viced without a foreign branch due to the existing guidelines of the 
Federal Reserve System. He asked Mr. Sammons to comment. 
Mr. Sammons replied that loans of foreign branches were not 
subject to the guidelines of the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
program. For the purposes of that program, a foreign branch was 
treated as a foreign entity. On the theory that such branches were 
competing—in London and elsewhere--with foreign banks for foreign 
business, it was considered proper to make such an exclusion. The 
question whether the lack of a foreign branch would cause any particu-
lar bank to be restricted in servicing its customers depended to some 
extent on the bank's leeway under the voluntary program. He did not 
know the extent to which United California Bank had demands it was try-
ing to meet, but the availability of the proposed foreign branch would 
help it to meet such demands without exhausting its leeway. 
Governor Brimmer observed that United California Bank apparently 
would be able to finance the establishment of the London branch within 
its current ceiling, and Mr. Dahl said that U.S. banks usually were 
able to establish a London branch with an investment of about $500,000. 
He noted that United California Bank's leeway at the end of August was 
around $7 million. 

9/28/67 
-3-
Governor Brimmer then said that he felt the Board should begin 
to look more closely at applications of this kind. He recognized the 
situation Mr. Sammons had described, but he still felt uncomfortable 
about the position of foreign branches under the voluntary program. 
Governor Brimmer inquired next about the prospect of institut-
ing a reporting program to collect data regularly on the activities of 
foreign branches of U.S. banks. 
The staff indicated that an ad hoc System subcommittee had been 
established to work on the matter. The subcommittee, which was chaired 
by Mr. Reynolds of the Board's staff, also included in its membership 
Mr. Axilrod of the Board's staff and Reserve Bank representatives who 
were especially knowledgeable in this field. At present Mr. Reynolds 
was preparing a document that would serve as a basis for the work of 
the subcommittee. 
Members of the Board expressed the view that the work should 
be expedited as much as possible, and Governor Mitchell made the com-
ment that he would like to see the document being prepared by Mr. 
Reynolds in order to determine whether the reporting system that was 
envisaged would be responsive to the Board's requirements. 
Unanimous approval then was given to a letter to United Cali-
fornia Bank approving the establishment of the proposed branch in 
London. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on 

9/28/67 
-4-
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Glen 
Lyon National Bank, Glen Lyon, Pennsylvania, into The Hanover National 
Bank of Wilkes-Barre, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. The conclusion 
stated that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
Application of Traverse City State Bank. There had been distrib-
uted under date of September 21, 1967, a memorandum from the Division 
of Examinations and other pertinent papers relative to an application 
of Traverse City State Bank, Traverse City, Michigan, to consolidate 
with State Bank of Elk Rapids, Elk Rapids, Michigan. The staff recom-
mendations were favorable. 
After comments on the matter by Mr. Egertson, Governor Mitchell 
inquired what other offers had been received by the Elk Rapids bank. 
Mr. Egertson said that the National Bank and Trust Company of Traverse 
City reportedly had made an offer prior to the acceptance of the con-
solidation agreement by the participating banks. It was not known how 
firm the national bank's offer may have been. 
Governor Robertson inquired what position the staff would have 
taken if the applicant bank had had deposits of, say, $100 million as 
opposed to $38 million, that is, whether the staff would still feel 
that the providing of better banking services in Elk Rapids and solution 
of the Elk Rapids bank's management problem were overriding considera-
tions . 

3775 
9/28/67 
-5-
Mr. Egertson said he felt the Division of Examinations would 
still take the same position. Traverse City State Bank was, in fact, 
more than twice the size of either of the other two banks in Traverse 
City. The addition of $2.5 million in deposits through the proposed 
consolidation was not going to change the banking structure a great 
deal since the bank already dominated the area. However, the bank had 
achieved its position through normal growth rather than through mergers. 
He did not believe that the deposits gained would in any way alter the 
present competitive situation. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago had attempted to obtain additional information on the reported 
offer by the National Bank and Trust Company of Traverse City. 
Mr. Egertson said the Reserve Bank obtained its only informa-
tion through the investigating examiner, to whom the national bank 
mentioned that it had made an offer, but with no further details. 
Governor Brimmer noted that the national bank had expressed 
objection to the proposed merger and asked whether it had made mention 
of any offer on its part in the letter. 
Mr. Egertson replied that the objection to the merger was 
expressed simply on the basis of the competitive factors involved. 
Governor Brimmer then commented that he questioned how thor-
oughly the Reserve Bank had done its work on this application. National 
Bank and Trust Company had deposits of around $16 million and apparently 

9/28/67 
-6-
would be capable of taking over the bank in Elk Rapids. He recognized 
that the Board was not in a position to negotiate settlements, but he 
would have liked to see in the record some information on the offer 
reportedly made by National Bank and Trust Company and an appraisal of 
it by the Reserve Bank. As matters stood, it was not clear whether a 
reasonable alternative was available. 
Governor Brimmer also inquired what documentation on this case 
was provided by the Research Department of the Reserve Bank, and Mr. 
Egertson said the Department had furnished a two and one-half page 
memorandum that inadvertently was not attached to the file distributed 
to the Board members. The Research Department expressed the view that 
the competitive effects of the proposed merger would be slightly ad-
verse. The Department did not put much weight on the convenience and 
needs factor, but noted that the merger would solve a management prob-
lem at the Elk Rapids bank. In effect, as summarized in the memorandum 
from the Division of Examinations to the Board, the Chicago Research 
Department felt that this was a more or less neutral case. The Depart-
ment mentioned that the Elk Rapids community would have broader banking 
services, perhaps better services, and it also pointed out that persons 
in Elk Rapids could go to Traverse City for their banking requirements. 
Governor Mitchell inquired about the view of the Banking Markets 
Section, and Mr. Shull said the Section considered this a close case. 
Being interested in the offer by the national bank that had been reported, 

* } 
v> / / / 
9/28/67 
-7-
the Section inquired of the Reserve Bank and was told that the informa-
tion about it was limited. Thus, it was not known whether any firm or 
reasonable offer had been made. In terms of the banking structure, it 
would seem better if the second largest bank in Traverse City (National 
Bank and Trust Company) were to take over the Elk Rapids bank. However, 
in view of the lack of more information on the national bank's reported 
offer, and in view of what appeared to be relatively minor anticompeti-
tive effects of the proposed merger, the Section recommended approval. 
Governor Mitchell expressed agreement with the view that this 
was a close case, but said he leaned toward approval. It seemed to him 
that the applicant bank was not in as powerful a competitive position 
as its relative size might suggest; he noted the considerably greater 
rate of increase over the past several years in the loans and deposits 
of Empire National Bank, the third largest bank in Traverse City. 
Therefore, although the applicant bank appeared dominant in its area, 
considering its fairly modest size and the fact that the advisory 
reports on competitive factors, except that of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, were favorable, he was inclined to approve. 
Governor Brimmer reiterated that he was troubled about the 
failure of the Reserve Bank to explore the reported alternative offer. 
The case was closer than it otherwise might have been, because it could 
have developed that the other offer provided no reasonable alternative. 
Nevertheless, he would reluctantly approve the application. 

11778 
9/28/67 
-8-
Governor Maisel said that he would approve the application, as 
did Governor Sherrill. 
Governor Robertson also said that he would approve. However, 
he urged that in cases of this kind the Federal Reserve Bank make every 
effort to find out what alternatives might exist. The application 
before the Board verged closely on upsetting the competitive balance in 
the area by augmenting the size of the largest bank. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Application of Detroit Bank and Trust Company (Items 2-4). In 
accordance with the understanding at the Board meeting on September 22, 
1967, there had been distributed with a memorandum from the Legal Divi-
sion dated September 25 a revised draft of statement in support of the 
Board's approval of the application of The Detroit Bank and Trust Com-
pany, Detroit, Michigan, to consolidate with Commercial State Bank of 
Roseville, Roseville, Michigan. A draft of order approving the applica-
tion was also submitted, along with a revised draft of dissenting state-
ment. The changes in the majority statement reflected suggestions made 
at the meeting on September 22 by Governor Mitchell and Mr. Shay. The 
revised dissenting statement eliminated certain observations that would 
seem inappropriate if the majority statement was authorized for release 
in its revised form. 
Governor Mitchell noted that there had also been distributed a 
proposed revision of one paragraph in the latest draft of majority 

8779 
9/28/67 
-9-
statement, and Governor Maisel distributed at this time a proposed 
revision of one paragraph of the dissenting statement. It was under-
stood that those two substitutions would be made in the respective 
statements. 
The release of the order, statement, and dissenting statement 
was then authorized; copies of the documents, as issued, are attached 
as Items 2-4. 
Disclosure of information in connection with "tender offers." 
There had been distributed a memorandum from the Legal, Research, and 
Examinations Divisions dated September 25, 1967, recommending that the 
Board propose an amendment to a Senate-passed bill, S. 510, dealing 
with "tender offers" to acquire corporate stocks. The bill would amend 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the statute authorizing regulation 
by the Board of securities market credit. 
One section of the bill required that at the time the tender 
offer was made the offeror must disclose relevant information concern-
ing the transaction, including its financing, to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission. However, if the financing was provided by a bank, 
the offeror would have to disclose no more than that fact. 
The matter had been discussed by the Board's staff with the 
staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and it had been ascer-
tained that the Commission would be reluctant to have any major change 
in the bill proposed at this time. However, the SEC staff did not 

8780 
9/28/67 
-10-
beli eve that a proposed amendment to remove the exemption in respect 
to bank financing of tender offers, but provide that the name of the 
bank not be made available for public inspection, would give rise to 
any serious difficulty. The SEC staff also felt that it would help 
the bill's chances of passage if there was a general expression of 
Board support. 
Submitted with the memorandum was a draft of letter to the 
Chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee express 
ing support of S. 510 but suggesting the amendment recommended by the 
Board's staff, with a statement of reasons. 
Under date of September 26 there had been distributed a second 
memorandum growing out of a suggestion by Governor Robertson that the 
Board might wish to offer alternative amendments to the Interstate and 
Foreign Commerce Committee. Attached to this memorandum was a draft 
of letter to the Chairman of the Committee that would recommend, first, 
that the exemption in S. 510 be removed entirely but, as an alternative 
that the amendment described in the September 25 memorandum be used. 
Miss Hart commented on the matter in some detail and set forth 
reasons why the Board's staff felt that an amendment to S. 510 would 
be helpful. She suggested that if the Board decided to write to the 
House Committee, a copy of the proposed letter be sent first to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission for comment. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that complete elimination 
of the exemption now contained in S. 510 would be preferable. He 

3781 
9/28/67 
-11-
would favor recommending such an amendment unless it was unacceptable 
to the Securities and Exchange Commission, in which case he would be 
willing to recommend the alternative amendment to the House Committee. 
To put it another way, he felt that the Commission should be made aware 
of the Board's preference that the exemption contained in the bill be 
eliminated. However, if the Commission persisted in its view that the 
names of financing banks should not be revealed publicly, he would be 
reluctant to override that objection. 
Governor Mitchell commented that, since the Board had an inter-
est in obtaining information in some form, it should be willing to pay 
the price, if necessary, even though it felt that the best procedure 
would be to eliminate completely the exemption contained in S. 510. 
Governor Sherrill agreed. 
After further discussion, Governor Robertson suggested sending 
to the Securities and Exchange Commission the draft letter attached to 
the September 26 memorandum, with a request for the comments of the 
Commission. 
There was agreement with the procedure suggested by Governor 
Robertson. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, 
Solomon, O'Connell, and Leavitt then withdrew from the meeting. 
Task force on civil rights. Mr. O'Connell related that yester-
day afternoon he received a telephone call from a representative of the 

3 V H 2 
9/28/67 
-12-
Department of Justice advising that at the direction of the White House 
a task force on civil rights for 1968 had been established, with the 
Attorney General as chairman, to study various problems and make recom-
mendations. One study would deal with discrimination in the practices 
of lending institutions and methods of stopping such practices. The 
subcommittee that would undertake that study would be headed by a rep-
resentative of the Justice Department. The membership of the subcom-
mittee would include representatives from agencies such as the Treasury, 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Home Loan Bank Board, 
and it was hoped that the Board of Governors would designate a repre-
sentative. The first meeting of the subcommittee was to be held tomor-
row, and it appeared that the filing of a preliminary report at an 
early date was contemplated. 
Mr. O'Connell said he had asked the Justice Department represen-
tative that a letter be sent to the Board dealing with the establishment 
of the subcommittee and requesting the designation of a Board represen-
tative. However, he had also said that he would bring the matter to 
the Board's attention on the basis of the telephone conversation. Mr. 
O'Connell went on to say that he did not believe a knowledge of law 
would be as helpful to the work of the subcommittee as a knowledge of 
bank lending practices. 
Governor Maisel inquired about the legal basis for enforcing 
nondiscrimination in bank lending practices, and Mr. O'Connell indicated 

9/28/67 
-13-
that the question would have to be studied further. Mr. O'Connell 
mentioned that the general position taken in the past had been that 
the Board did not have power to regulate against discrimination in 
bank lending practices. He added that determination of the need for 
additional legislation was one of the apparent objectives of the pro-
posed study. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that Mr. Leavitt be designated 
to attend tomorrow's subcommittee meeting as the Board's representative, 
with the understanding that Mr. Leavitt would report on developments. 
There was agreement with this suggestion. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether bank examiners were required 
to ascertain compliance by banks with the provisions of Title VII of 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, relating to employment practices. 
Mr. Sherman replied that the Board's General Counsel, Mr. 
Hackley, had been looking into that matter. While Mr. Hackley had not 
completed his study, he understood it to be Mr. Hackley's opinion that, 
although a bank examiner could look into any apparent violation of law, 
it was not so clear whether, as a practical matter, the examiner should 
be required to devote his time to problems unrelated to the soundness 
of the bank under examination. 
Governor Sherrill commented that it appeared to him that any 
prescribed procedures should be uniform for all classes of banks, and 
Governor Robertson agreed. The latter added that the examiner's job 

I 0 ( V 1'V 
9/28/67 
-14-
was to ascertain whether any Federal law was being violated by the 
bank under examination. That was inherent in the examiner's work. 
However, uniformity of instructions on investigation of apparent viola-
tions of Title VII would seem appropriate. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of its 
intent to establish an additional branch in 
the Netherlands, to be located in Rotterdam. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Frederick Whetzel as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,413, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Transfer 
Margie W. Lakatos, from the position of Mailing List Clerk to the 
position of Editorial Assistant, Division of Administrative Services, 
with an increase in basic annual salary from $5,256 to $5,683, effec-
tive October 8, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
William K. Freeman, Cafeteria Laborer, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business September 27, 1967. 
On September 28, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 

i t Y M o 
9/28/67 
-15-
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving the reappointment of Alan C. Sullivan 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
approving the appointment of Frederick W. Hagemann 
as assistant examiner. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Island State Bank, Patchogue, New York, 
approving the establishment of a branch in Holbrook, 
Suffolk County. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Macomb County Savings Bank, Richmond, 
Michigan, approving the payment of two dividends. 
Item No. 
5 
6 

H 
resVT 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
9/28/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 28, 1967. 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California. 90054 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to United California Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
to establish a branch in London, England, and to operate and maintain 
such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regula-
tion M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before October 1, 1968, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in London. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 7 f W 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
I t e m N o- 2 
9/28/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEH 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE DETROIT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
for approval of consolidation with 
Commercial State Bank of Roseville 
ORDER APPROVING CONSOLIDATION OF BANKS 
• 
t. 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.5.C. 1828(c)), an application by The Detroit Bank 
and Trust Company, Detroit, Michigan, a State member bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the consolidation of 
^at bank and Commercial State Bank of Roseville, Roseville, Michigan, 
under the charter and title of The Detroit Bank and Trust Company. As 
an incident to the consolidation, the three offices of Commercial State 
* 
Bank of Roseville would become branches of the resulting bank. Notice 
« 
the proposed consolidation, in form approved by the Board, has been 
Published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
t» 
factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

-2- 
37S9 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that said consolidation shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 28th day of September, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, and Brimmer. 
(signed) Merritt Sherman 
Ilerritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3789 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 3 
9/28/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE DETROIT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATION WITH 
COMMERCIAL STATE BANK OF ROSEVILLE 
STATEMENT 
The Detroit Bank and Trust Company, Detroit, Michigan ("Detroit 
Bank"), with total deposits of about $1.5 billion, has applied, pursuant 
t 0 the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior- approval 
o f the consolidation of that bank with Commercial State Bank of Roseville, 
Uoseville, Michigan ("Roseville Bank"), which has total deposits of about 
1/ 
million. 
The banks would consolidate under the charter and name of 
Detroit Bank, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. As an 
ir*cident to the consolidation, the three offices of Roseville Bank would 
become branches of Detroit Bank, increasing the number of its offices to 
Competition. - The head office of Detroit Bank is in downtown 
Detroit and the bank operates 72 branches in the metropolitan area within 
Q Radius of 25 miles. The Detroit Metropolitan Area, which has a popula-
tj 
° n in excess of 4 million, consists of Macomb, Oakland, and Wayne 
CQ 
unties. Roseville Bank operates its main office and two branches in 
^Figures are as of December 31, 1966. 

3790 
Roseville, an incorporated town in Macomb County situated about three 
miles from the northeastern boundary of Detroit. Roseville has a popu-
lation of about 60,000 and is principally a residential community. 
Detroit Bank, with about 17.8 per cent of the deposits, is 
the second largest of the 30 commercial banks operating offices in the 
portion of the Detroit Metropolitan Area which it serves. The largest 
and third largest banks hold, respectively, about 34 per cent and 17.7 
Per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the area served by Detroit 
Bank. Roseville Bank, with about three-tenths of one per cent of such 
deposits, ranks twentieth. However, the relevant local market for 
Assessing the effects of the proposed transaction on competition consists 
°f the Roseville area only. 
Roseville Bank operates the only commercial banking offices 
in Roseville. The nearest offices of Detroit Bank to the offices of 
Roseville Bank are its Gratiot-Eastwood and Eight Hile-Dresden branches, 
both about four and one-half miles southwestwardly from Roseville Bank s 
^ain office, and its Garfield-Metropolitan Parkway branch, about three 
miles northwest of the Macomb Hall office of Roseville Bank. In each 
instance there are offices of other banks in the intervening area. Over-
all. there are 40 offices of 11 banks situated within a five-mile radius 
the three offices of Roseville Bank. Roseville Bank draws the prepon-
derance of its business from within this area and holds about 5 per cent 
area deposits; the three branches of Detroit Bank hold about 8 per cent 
o f such deposits. 

The three offices of Detroit Bank situated within five miles 
of Roseville Bankfs offices obtain less than 3 per cent of their deposits 
and less than 2 per cent of their deposit accounts from the Roseville area. 
Detroit Bank derives a sizable aggregate dollar amount of commercial loans, 
consumer loans, and real estate mortgage loans from the Roseville area. 
For the most part, however, this loan business is either beyond the capa-
bilities of Roseville Bank or of a type for which the bank puts forth little 
or no competitive effort. 
Competition between Roseville Bank and Detroit Bank, or any 
other bank, is limited by State law which precludes entry into Roseville 
by other banks through the establishment of de novo branches. A new bank 
could be established in Roseville, however, and it does not appear that 
the replacement of Roseville Bank by offices of Detroit Bank would be an 
effective deterrent to the formation of such a bank. New banks have been 
established, and are being operated successfully, in various parts of the 
Detroit Metropolitan Area in competition with branches of the large Detroit 
banks. 
In these circumstances, little significance attaches to the 
assertion of applicant that it does not compete in a meaningful way in 
Roseville because of its correspondent relationship with Roseville Bank. 
The effect of the consolidation on competition would not be 
significantly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The banking 
factors with respect to Detroit Bank are satisfactory, as they would be 
^ith respect to the resulting bank. 

Roseville Bank was established in 1951; the bank's net income 
in 1966 reached an all time high, but its earnings were still somewhat 
below the average for other banks similarly situated. The capital of 
Roseville Bank needs to b,e strengthened and the bank lacks management 
depth. In addition, there is serious disharmony among the directors of 
Roseville Bank. Thfcse considerations raise doubts about the future of the 
b'anlc -as an effective competitive force. 
While it can be contended that there may be other feasible 
alternatives to this proposal, none can be realistically presented and 
documented in the framework within which this merger application is being 
considered. Proposals must be considered in seriatim and only as those 
first presented are rejected. In the judgment of the Board the anti-
competitive effects of the particular proposal are not sufficient to 
•s 
Warrant rejection and thereby require the negotiation of a second 
alternative. 'Meanwhile the weakening in the capacity to serve the 
community arising from the lack of managerial depth and disharmony among 
the directors should be remedied. 
The consolidation would immediately and conclusively resolve 
the managerial and related problems of Roseville Bank. 
Convenience and needs of the community, - The effect of the 
consolidation on banking convenience and needs would be limited to the 
Roseville area, 
Roseville Bank has not been aggressive in offering banking 
services. Although the bank enjoys exclusive branching privileges in 
Roseville, it operates only one blanking office per 20,000 residents. This 
factor is mitigated to some extent by the banking offices located on the 
Periphery of the community. However, the replacement of Roseville Bank 

by offices of Detroit Bank uou^d result in the addition of a more 
convenient alternative source of full-scale banking services for 
Roseville, 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
proposed consolidation \70uld resolve the managerial and related problems 
of Roseville Bank and benefit the banking convenience and needs of the 
• 
Roseville community, v;ithout resulting in any significantly adverse con-
sequences for banking competition. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved, 
« 
* 
September 28, 1967. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF 
Item No. 4 
9/28/67 
GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, MAISEL, AND BRIMMER 
By approving the application in this case, the majority gives 
its sanction to the replacement of the $26 million Roseville Bank uith 
offices of the $1.5 billion Detroit Bank, the second largest bank in 
the Detroit Metropolitan Area. In our judgment, the consequences of the 
transaction for banking competition will be significantly adverse, without 
offsetting benefits under the banking factors or the convenience and needs 
factor. 
m 
- 
w 
Competition, - The Roseville Bank has an economically important 
locational advantage by virtue of Michiganfs branch banking laws, which 
Prohibit the establishment of new branches in Roseville except by Roseville 
Bank. While several banking offices are located within the periphery of 
Roseville Bank's service area, including three offices of Detroit Bank, 
no other bank is located in Roseville. Roseville Bank's very rapid growth--
it is the second fastest growing bank in the Roseville area--and its high 
rate of return in recent years are indicative of the locational advantage 
it enjoys. This advantage is also reflected, no doubt, in the very high 
< 
r. 
Premium that will be paid for the stock of Roseville Banlc. 
The probable effect of the consolidation will be to make entry 
into Roseville by new charter more difficult, since a new bank would have 
to compete against the vastly larger Detroit Bank. Further, since Michigan 
law will permit Detroit Bank to branch in Roseville only until a new bank 

is formed, there will be an incentive for Detroit Bank to pre-empt favorable 
banking locations by rapidly establishing new branches, thus making it even 
more difficult for a new bank to enter. 
The service area of Roseville Bank lies wholly within the service 
e 
area of Detroit Bank. The consolidation will eliminate existing competition 
and foreclose the development of further competition between the two banks 
in the course of eliminating Roseville Bank as a viable banking alternative. 
Detroit Bank contends that it does not compete in a meaningful 
way in Roseville because of its correspondent-bank relationship with Rose-
ville Bank. If it is true that Detroit Bank does not compete with corres-
t 
Pondents, then the effect of the consolidation on competition will be even 
more severe since Detroit Bank maintains correspondent relationships with 
three banks operating in the periphery of Roseville Bank's service area. 
Concentration. - The transaction will increase the concentration 
°f banking resources and enhance the already dominant position of the large 
Detroit banks. The three largest banks--including Detroit Bank, the second 
bargest--hold about 70 per cent of the commercial bank deposits, and operate 
over 50 per cent of the commercial banking offices, in the portion of the 
Detroit Metropolitan Area served by Detroit Bank; the six largest banks 
bold about 08 per cent of the commercial bank deposits, and operate about 
per cent of the commercial banking offices, in this area. This heavy 
c°ncentration will certainly not be diminished by authorizing these large 
banks to expand by consolidation into positions that are extremely favor-
able and, under the banking laws of Michigan, virtually amount to area 

monopoli'es. On the contrary, acquisitions by these large banks in nearby 
communities where they cannot branch de novo enables them to enlarge the 
•geographical sphere of their dominance. 
Following the ^acquisition of Roseville Bank by Detroit Bank, 
in the area including and surrounding Roseville, the three largest banks 
will increase their share of this market by over 10 per cent, and they 
will hold nearly 50 per cent of the commercial bank deposits, and operate 
about 44 per cent of the commercial banking offices; the six largest 
banks in Detroit will hold over 70 per cent of the commercial bank 
deposits, and operate nearly 63 per cent of the commercial banking offices 
in this area. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The serious 
disharmony -alleged to exist among the directors of Roseville Bank is not 
'apparent from the bank's performance. It is the second fastest growing 
bank in the Roseville area. In the five-year period ended December 31, 
1966, the deposits of Roseville Bank increased by about 140 per cent and 
its loans increased by about 220 per cent. In 1966, Roseville Bank's 
earnings were the highest in its history; the bank's average net income 
for the past three years compares favorably with the average for banks of 
comparable size. 
Largely because of the rapid growth of Roseville Bank, its 
capital needs to be strengthened. The bank has made no effort, and has 
n° immediate plans, to augment its capital, however. Roseville Bank 
Pssertedly lacks management depth, but it is acknowledged that no attempt 
has been made to recruit additional managerial talent. 

The problems of Roseville Bank cannot be fairly characterized 
as serious, but the directors concluded that some disposition of the bank 
is desirable and that consolidation with Detroit Bank would best serve 
the interests of the stockholders. Under the criteria of the Bank Ilerger 
Act, however, the public interest transcends the interests of stockholders; 
further, the Act was not designed to permit an anticompetitive bank amalga-
mation to serve as a convenient way out for directors who have difficulty 
working together. And the record, in our judgment, simply does not support 
the conclusion that Roseville Bank has significant problems for which there 
ic no feasible solution except consolidation with Detroit Bank, Assuming 
that Roseville Bank had significant problems which could not be resolved 
under the existing ownership and directorate, the fact remains that any 
Michigan Bank with its head office within 25 miles of Roseville Bank is 
eligible under State law to consolidate with Roseville Bank,. Several of 
these alternatives would be significantly less anticompetitive than the 
consolidation of Roseville Bank with Detroit Bank; in addition, there is 
n o reason to conclude that the stock of Roseville Bank would not be an 
attractive investment for individuals or groups. 
c 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The available evidence 
indicates that the banking needs of the Roseville area are being met satis-
c 
factorily and without undue inconvenience. 'There are 40 offices of 11 
b a n^s, including three offices of Detroit Bank, situated within a five-
mlle radius of the three offices of Roseville Bank. Twenty-four of these 
offices are operated by the six largest banks in Detroit, which hold 

- 5 -
total deposits in excess of $7 billion and offer a full range of banking 
services. Further, subsequent to the filing of the application for its 
consolidation with Detroit Bank, Roseville Bank withdrew a pending request 
• 
for permission to establish an additional branch in Roseville. 
The consolidation will, of course, eliminate Roseville Bank as 
an alternative source of banking services for the Roseville area; and, 
because of the resources of Detroit Bank, the transaction will tend to 
impede the addition of an alternative source of banking services through 
the formation of a new bank in Roseville. 
Summary and conclusion. - In our judgment, the consolidation of 
Roseville Bank and Detroit Bank will have a significantly adverse effect 
on competition, and the consequences of the transaction for the banking 
convenience and needs of the Roseville community will be adverse, as well. 
Further, from our reading of the record, there is no basis for concluding 
that Roseville Bank has significant problems for which there is no feasible 
solution except consolidation with Detroit Bank. 
There can be no doubt that the Bank llerger Act became law as 
a result of the concern of Congress-in the face of a marked trend toward 
t' 
Increased concentration in banking resources-for the future of our bank-
ing structure. Increases in the size of the largest banks and reductions 
In the number of banks, as well as the loss of competition between amalga-
mated banks, were major points emphasized in pointing up the need for the 
~legislation. S«e, £.£., S. Rc£. No. 196, 86th Cong., 1st Sess. 8 (1959); 
H.R. Rej>. No. 1416, 06th Cong., 2d Sess. 3-5 (1960). Indeed, Detroit is 

3799 
listed in the legislative history among the principal financial centers 
having the highest concentration of banking resources, S. Rej>. No. 1 % , 
0£. clt., p. 27. Clearly, the Board should not sanction a diminution in 
the number of banking alternatives in the Detroit area, particularly through 
acquisitions by the already dominant banks, in the absence of strong off-
setting benefits under the banking factors or the convenience and needs 
factor. 
He would deny the application. 
September 28, 1967. 
' : » i. ji 
*Tlhe 1966 amendment to the Merger Act was designed to establish stricter 
standards for bank amalgamations than those of the 1960 lau. See, 
e
, 
H.R. Re£. No, 1221, 89th Cong., 2d Sess. 1 (1966); see also, United States 
V."~Flrst City National Bank, 386 U.S. 361 (1967). 

38 00 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
9/28/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 29, 1967 
Mr. L. E. Quackenbush, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Quackenbush: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of September 26, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the re-
appointment of Alan C. Sullivan as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, effective 
October 3, 1967. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3801 
•f^LRtsf:-
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
9/28/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
H O A R D 
September 28, 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of September 25, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Frederick W. Hagemann as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Please 
advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 8 0 2 
Item No. 7 
9/28/67 
Mr. John £. Manser 
^resident 
Island State Bank 
West Main Street 
*atchogue, Hew York 
Dear Mr. Manser: 
We refer to your bank's application dated Juno 7, 
^967, requesting permission to establish a branch office at 
the southeast corner of Union and Coatcs Avenues, Unincorpo-
rated Area of Holbrook, Town of Srookhaven, Suffolk County, 
Sow York. After reviewing the application in the li^-^o- tae 
factors enumerated in Section 
of the r.ulec ^card-
ing Delegation of Authority issued by the Soard of Governors 
the Federal Reserve System, ve have concluded tha%i 
application should he approved. Accordingly, on 'bohal- o. the 
Board of Governors, the Federal Eesorve Sank of X;ew -oiv., 
doting under delegated authority, approves the establis^on-
your hank of a branch office at the above-mentioned location, 
Provided it is established within one year of the date of this 
letter. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch 
. , , . 
- .1 
«| 
•:>#-!-» Vm^rtnfl. "Ivi"1" the 
t® actually established and opened for business, Giving ^he 
Effective date of opening the nana, if any, by vhica -v vxj.1 
known, and the official postal address, includinc tac sip 
number. 
Please acknowledge rcccipt of this letter by signing 
returning the enclosed copy to uo. 
Very truly yours, 
Shoaas M. Timlen, Jr. . 
Vice President 

3803 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
ITEM NO. 
9/28/67 
2)0 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60W0 
()I2) HA 7-2)20 
September 28, 1967 
Mr. John B. Hccox 
Executive Vice President 
and Cashier 
Macomb County Savinga Bonk 
Richmond, Michigan bQ062 
Dear Mr. Hecox2 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this bank hao approved the payment of two dividends of 
35 cents per share each on the 6,000 shares of outstanding stock of 
your bank for the third and fourth quarters of 1967* 
Very truly yours, 
' 
% 
0 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
LR:rk 
cc - Mr. Merritt Sherman' 
Examiner's file 
Michigan Financial Institutions Bureau 
COPY 
