Minutes for June 25, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 7 
Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. Louis. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. 
If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Rober 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1581 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, June 25, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 1U:0U a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mru Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
1/ 
Staff of the Division of International Finance presented a 
review of international economic and financial developments, with 
particular reference to recent and prospective developments affect-
ing the U.S. international accounts. 
Copies of the statistical mate-
rials prepared for this review have been placed in the Board's files, 
along with copies of the individual briefings. 
There followed comments by Mr. Cardon on pertinent legislative 
developments, after which members of the staff who had been present 
specifically for the staff review withdrew from the room and the follow-
ing entered: 
17 Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1582 
6/25/71 
-2-
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Messrs. Leavitt, Egertson, and Smith 
of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Althausen of the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Supporting staff of the several Divisions 
Consent calendar. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
Chemung Canal Trust Company, Elmira, New York, (copy attached as 
Item No. 1), granting its application for permission to issue capital 
notes. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by First Holding 
Company, Inc., Waukesha, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of The First 
National Bank of Elk Horn, Elkhorn, Wisconsin, and authorized the 
issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 2) reflecting that action. 
•. • 
».- 
: • 
k 
L-y 
f be 
j 
.*' i 
y
i
' 
• •• 
The Board approved unanimously a telegram to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston (copy attached as Item No. 3) interposing no objection 
to the Bank's proceeding with negotiations to purchase a certain par-
cel of land, at a cost not to exceed $1.35 million, for the Bank's 
new building site. 
The Board approved unanimously a telegram to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis (copy attached as Item No. 4) interposing no objec-
tion to acceptance of an offer to purchase the Bank's present building 
for $3.25 million. 
Membership application. 
Since all factors, including manage-
ment, now appeared satisfactory, the Board approved unanimously the 

1583 
6/25/71 
-3-
application made on behalf of City and County Bank, Powell, Tennessee, 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter 
sent pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 5. 
Request for reconsideration. 
On June 15 three members of the 
Board and appropriate staff had met with representatives of the banks 
concerned to discuss a request for reconsideration of the Board's denial, 
by order dated November 5, 1970, of an application by The Connecticut 
Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, to merge The North Side 
Bank and Trust Company, Bristol, Connecticut. 
The Board now decided by unanimous vote to grant the request 
for reconsideration, with the understanding that a survey bearing upon 
the key issue in the matter--delineation of the relevant banking market--
would be undertaken by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. A copy of 
the order granting the request for reconsideration is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
Greater Providence Deposit Corporation. Greater Providence 
Deposit Corporation, Providence, Rhode Island, an industrial bank making 
consumer and commercial loans but not accepting demand deposits, had 
become a bank holding company under the 1970 amendments to the Bank 
Holding Company Act by virtue of its ownership of an uninsured commer-
cial bank that operated on the same premises. Greater Providence 
proposed to take over the commercial loan business of its subsidiary, 

1584 
6/25/71 
-4-
arguing that its subsidiary would thereby cease to be a bank, as defined 
in the Bank Holding Company Act, and that Greater Providence would 
therefore no longer be a bank holding company. 
In a memorandum dated May 24, 1971, the Legal Division recom-
mended that the Board conclude that Greater Providence would remain a 
bank holding company. However, the Division believed it would also be 
legally supportable to conclude that Greater Providence would cease to 
be a bank holding company, in the circumstances proposed, unless its 
subsidiary supplied or maintained the availability of funds to Greater 
Providence. 
If the Board reached that conclusion, the Division recom-
mended that the Board define a "commercial loan" for the purpose of 
section 2(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act to mean any loan to a company 
or individual, secured or unsecured, other than a loan the proceeds of 
which are used to acquire property or services used by the borrower 
for his own personal, family, or household purposes or for charitable 
purposes. 
If the Board concluded that Greater Providence would no 
longer be a bank holding company, the Division also recommended that the 
corporation not be required to register as such, even though it was a 
bank holding company on January 1, 1971, because no useful purpose would 
be served. 
In related staff memoranda the Board was advised of reasons why 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation would not be prepared to grant 
deposit insurance to Greater Providence Trust Company, the commercial 

1585 
6/25/71 
-5-
barik subsidiary of Greater Providence Deposit Corporation, unless changes 
were made in its lending and other operations. 
(The law requires that 
every subsidiary bank of a bank holding company be an insured bank.) 
In response to a question, Mr. Cardon reviewed the pertinent 
provisions of the statute and expressed the opinion that in the cir-
cumstances of this particular case the objectives of the statute would 
not be thwarted if the Board were to hold that after the proposed rear-
rangement of operations Greater Providence Deposit Corporation would no 
longer be a bank holding company, provided that the conditions recommended 
by the staff in the event of such a conclusion were imposed. He believed 
that the risk of adoption of similar procedures in other cases could be 
avoided by fitting the Board's conclusion to the specific facts of this 
one case. 
There followed a general discussion of the rather complex set 
of issues involved, including the obstacles that apparently would con-
front the subsidiary institution if the parent continued as a bank hold-
ing company and the subsidiary were forced to apply for deposit insurance. 
u 
Reservations were expressed by some Board members about the effective-
ness of the proposed scheme of redistribution of activities between the 
parent and the subsidiary, especially in view of the fact that operations 
would continue to be conducted in the same quarters. Reservations also 
were expressed from the standpoint that the Board, in dealing with this 
relatively minor case, might reach determinations that would have broader 

1586 
6/25/71 
-6-
implications for the administration of the Bank Holding Company Act 
generally. 
In light of these and related questions, various possible 
alternative courses of action were explored, after which it was agreed 
that, as an aid to further consideration of the matter, the staff would 
prepare a draft of letter that might be sent to Greater Providence 
Deposit Corporation if the Board's conclusion should be that the corpo-
ration would no longer be a bank holding company if certain steps were 
taken and certain conditions were accepted. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Foreign credit restraint. 
Governor Brimmer noted that at his 
request there had been removed from today's consent calendar an applica-
tion by Continental International Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 
to acquire shares of a proposed new subsidiary bank in Switzerland. The 
Continental organization had recently exceeded its ceiling under the 
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program and he had wanted to discuss 
the situation with them. Other banks had also reported overages recently, 
t 
and it appeared that might soon be a serious problem. 
In the circumstances, 
although he recognized that the program was designated as voluntary, he 
had been following the practice, when applications for approval of foreign 
investments were made by banks that had gone over their ceilings, of 
bringing the situation to the attention of appropriate parties and solic-
iting their cooperation in adhering to the guidelines. 

1587 
6/25/71 
-7-
Discount rate. The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. Louis had acted on June 24, 1971, to establish, subject to review 
and determination by the Board of Governors, a discount rate of 5 
per cent (rather than 4-3/4 per cent). 
There had been no follow-up letter of explanation. 
However, 
Mr. Holland advised the Board of his understanding that the action 
had been taken by the Executive Committee, consisting of three directors. 
In addition to being concerned about the persistence of inflationary 
pressures, the directors were in favor of a policy of greater flexi-
bility in adjusting the discount rate, and they concluded that an in-
crease in the discount rate at this time could be justified as a move 
to keep the discount rate in line with market rates. The directors also 
felt that maintenance of the existing discount rate could lead to a rise 
in member bank borrowing and noted some evidence that this was already 
occurring. 
President Francis was aware that a discount rate proposal 
by another Reserve Bank (Philadelphia) had been rejected by the Board 
of Governors. He was not at liberty to share that information with 
j 
his directors, but he did convey to the directors certain reasons why 
he felt that a discount rate increase at this particular time might not 
be favorably regarded by the Board and suggested that his directors 
might want to wait for a couple of weeks. However, the Executive Com-
mittee concluded that a submission of the 5 per cent rate proposal to 
the Board would be desirable. 

158 
6/25/71 
-8-
After discussion, the Board decided by unanimous vote not to 
approve the action taken by the St. Louis directors, and it was under-
stood that a letter setting forth the Board's reasoning, similar in 
content to the letter sent recently to the Philadelphia Bank, would 
be sent to the St. Louis Bank. A copy of the letter sent pursuant to 
this action is attached as Item No. 7. 
The establishment without change by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas on 
June 24, 1971, of the rates on discounts and advances in their exist-
ing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. 
Governor Robertson referred to fur-
ther studies that had been made with respect to Bank of the Commonwealth, 
Detroit, Michigan, which analyses tended to cast serious doubt on the 
viability of the institution over the longer run and suggested that the 
bank might have to be merged. He regarded merger as a measure of last 
resort, in view of the competitive situation in Detroit, where there 
were only a few large banks, in view of the lack of suitable merger 
partners, and in view of the services rendered by Bank of the Common-
wealth to certain sectors of the city's economy, including ghetto areas. 
He then discussed several possibilities that had been considered for 
improving the bank's condition through relief from the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, pointed out the problems that were involved in 

1580 
6/25/71 
-9-
each of those approaches, and mentioned certain other possibilities 
that could be explored. 
In response to questions, he also reviewed 
the limitations on assistance to the bank through the Federal Reserve. 
involved in the several remedial possibilities that had been considered. 
They concurred generally with Governor Robertson's comments regarding 
the desirability of continuing the bank in existence if some reasonable 
program could be devised, but agreed that a merger of the bank might be 
inevitable. 
It was understood that Governor Robertson would continue to 
work on the matter, in company with the other supervisors, and would 
report back to the Board as developments warranted. 
Other Board members expressed appreciation of the difficulties 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Wms 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
6/25/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORHESPDNOENCE 
TD THE BOARD 
June 25, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Chemung Canal Trust Company 
Elmira, New York 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $2 million in .subordinated notes by Chemung Canal Trusty 
Company", Elmira, New York, as proposed in your bank's applica-
tion- to the Board dated May 28, 1971, and as amended by 
President Clark's letter of June 7, 1971 to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York. It is understood that any advertising with 
respect to the obligations will, in addition to being in 
compliance with the provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, 
clearly distinguish the nature of the obligation from a deposit, 
s including by setting forth in bold face type that the obligation 
is subordinated to the claims of depositors and not insured by 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1591 
Item No. 2 
6/25/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
FIRST HOLDING COMPANY, INC., 
1 
Waukesha, Wisconsin, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 
' 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
' 
shares of The First National Bank 
' 
of Elk Horn, Elkhorn, Wisconsin. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of First Holding Company, Inc., 
Waukesha, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
wore of the voting shares of The First National Bank of Elk Horn, 
Elkhorn, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 

-2-
1592 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 28, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8007), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such 
consideration, the Board finds that: 
The 10 largest banking organizations in Wisconsin, all of which 
are bank holding companies, control approximately 39 per cent of commercial 
bank deposits in the State, Applicant controls five banks with aggregate 
deposits of $151 million, representing 1.7 per cent of total bank deposits 
in the State, and is the fifth largest bank holding company. (All bank-
ing data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect bank holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through April 30, 1971.) 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank, with deposits of $16 million, would in-
crease its share of State deposits by only .2 per cent, representing no 
significant increase in its control of deposits in the State, or change 
in its present ranking^ 

-3-
1593 
Bank operates its main office in Elkhorn and one branch office 
six miles south of Elkhorn. Bank is the largest of the 13 independent 
banks operating in Walworth County, holding 13.4 per cent of county 
deposits; however, the next three largest banks are approximately comparable 
to it in size and control 12.5, 10.7, and 9.5 per cent, respectively, of 
county deposits. Applicant's closest subsidiary office is situated 
32 miles from Bank, and no significant present competition exists between 
Bank and this office, or with any of Applicant's other offices. It does 
not appear that consummation of this proposal would foreclose significant 
Potential competition because of the distances involved, the presence of 
intervening banks, and Wisconsin's restrictive branching laws. Based 
upon the foregoing and the record before it, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect 
competition in any relevant area nor any of the competing banks. 
The banking factors as they pertain to Applicant, its subsid-
iaries and Bank are consistent with approval of the application. 
Although 
the major banking needs of the area appear to be satisfied at the present 
time, Applicant's proposed new and improved services for Bank should prove 
beneficial to the public. Applicant plans to make trust services avail-
able at Bank, to improve its present computer services and to departmental-
ize the instalment lending business and furnish personnel to manage the 
new department. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served by Bank lend some support for approval of 
the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 

-4-
1591 
would be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
a* 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time shall be extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 25, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

T E L E 
G R A "M 
L E A S E D WIRE 
S E R V I C E 
Item No. 
6/25/71 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
June 28, 1971 
Morris - Boston 
Board will interpose no objection to Bank's proceeding 
with negotiations to acquire Gulf parcel at a cost not 
.to exceed $1.35 million as described in your letter of 
June 4. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenyon 

Item No. 4 1 . 5 9 6 
T
E
L
E
G
R 
A-M 
6/25/71 
l e a s e d 
w i r e 
s e r v i c e 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
June 28, 1971 
Strothman - Minneapolis 
Board will interpose no objection to Bank's acceptance of the 
proposal for the purchase of the present Bank building by 
Jay Marc Schwamm and Associates for $3.25 million as outlined 
in your letter of May 27 and in accordance with the Bank's 
telegram, dated June 17, to express the monthly rental as 
a fixed dollar amount per month. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenyon 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1597 
Item No. 5 
6/25/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R D E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 25, 1971 
Organization Committee 
City and County Bank 
Powell, Tennessee 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of City and County Bank, Powell, Tennessee, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta effective if and 
when the. bank opens for business under appropriate State authoriza-
tion, subject to.the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
such bank shall not cause or permit any change to be 
made in the general character of its business or in 
the scope of the corporate powers exercised by it at 
the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $300,000, and other capital funds of not 
less than $450,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

ODARD O F GDVEfJNDRS 
Board of Directors 
d f t h e federal reserve system 
- 
2 
-
±538 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, to-
gether with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the re-
quired reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and that 
the appropriate amount.of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued 
to the bank, the'Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. 
The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

1599 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Item No. 6 
6/25/71 
In the Matter of the Application 
THE CONNECTICUT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, 
Hartford, Connecticut, 
for prior approval of a merger with 
The North Side Bank and Trust Company, 
Bristol, Connecticut. 
ORDER FOR, AND NOTICE OF, RECONSIDERATION 
This matter comes before the Board of Governors on a Request 
for Reconsideration filed by The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company 
requesting that the Board reconsider its Order dated November 5, 1970, 
whereby the Board denied the application of The Connecticut Bank and 
Trust Company for prior written consent to effect a merger pursuant 
to section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), 
and, incident thereto, to establish branches under section 9 of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 321). 
This request for reconsideration is filed pursuant to section 
262.3(f)(6) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.2(f)(6)), 
which provides: 
"After action by the Board on an application, the Board 
will not grant any request for reconsideration of its action 
unless the request presents relevant facts that, for good 

cause showp, were not previously presented to the Board, 
or unless it otherwise appears to the Board that recon-
sideration would be appropriate." 
The Board finds that the Request for Reconsideration presents 
relevant facts (concerning particularly the relevant market in which 
the banks operate) that, for good cause shovn, were not previously 
presented to the Board, and reconsideration otherwise appears appro** 
Priate. Therefore, it appears that reconsideration is in the interests 
°f all parties as well as in the public interest. 
It is hereby ordered. That the Request for Reconsideration 
°f the application be and hereby is granted. In order to facilitate 
such reconsideration, not later than thirty (30) days after the publication 
°f this Order in the Federal Register, comments and views regarding 
the proposed acquisition may be filed with the Board. Communications 
should be addressed to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551. The application, as supple-
mented, may be inspected at the Office of the Board of Governors or at 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 25, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
(signed)'. Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1 6 0 1 
OF THE 
,0V CO | ' 
B O A R D O F B D V E ' R N G R 5 
item No. 7 
6/25/71 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. ZOSiil 
I )-' 
;ff|f 
A U D H C S H 
n r F I C I A L cohrespcinoiin^e 
• 
TD THU ODARU 
June 28, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR ) 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Darryl: 
The purpose of this letter is to outline the considerations 
that were involved in the Board's decision on June 25 not^to approve 
the action taken on June 24 by directors of your Bank to increase 
the discount rate from 4-3/4 per cent to 5 per cent. 
The members of the Board are concerned over persisting 
inflationary pressures. 
The Board does not believe, however, that 
a higher discount rate would prove a constructive step m 
dealing 
with such pressures at this juncture, given the current sensitive 
state of the securities markets and the substantial level of: un-
employed resources prevailing throughout the country. While short-
term market interest rates have risen recently 
that rise is not 
regarded as so large or so assuredly long-lived as to call for a 
corresponding discount rate advance. 
An 
a d d i t i o n a l consideration 
at thin particular time is the desirability of avoiding an overt 
monetary policy change during the interval when the current Treasury 
financing operation is in process. 
May I say that the Board, while reaching a judgment on 
this issue that differs from that of y o u r Executive Committee 
appreciates having had the benefit of their views and wishes to 
thank them for the expression of their considered judgment in 
fulfilling their statutory responsibility. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C.- Holland 
. Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
