MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 17, 1970 

23SG 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, August 17, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1./ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Morgan and Mrs. Byrn of the Office of 
the Secretary 
An economic and financial review of the kind customarily 
offered in preparation for meetings of the Federal Open Market Commit-
tee was presented. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
of the individual briefings. 
After discussion based on the review, members of the staff 
who had attended the meeting for that purpose left the room and the 
following entered: 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

8/17/70 
-2-
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Reserve requirements. Chairman Burns noted that there was 
before the Board a specific proposal, which he favored, to apply a 
4-1/2 per cent reserve requirement to funds obtained by member banks 
through the issuance of commercial paper by their affiliates and at 
the same time to reduce from 6 to 4-1/2 per cent the reserve require-
ment against time deposits in excess of $5 million. Some sentiment 
had been expressed in support of that proposal and also an alternative 
in which a 5 per cent figure would be substituted for the 4-1/2 per 
cent figure. The Board has also discussed a graduated reserve require-
ment plan. That would be basically a much needed improvement, but he 
had objected. He would prefer to obtain legislation, and he believed 
that a restructuring of reserve requirements in the absence of legis-
lation would be particularly inadvisable in an election year. He 
believed that that had also been the consensus of the Board. 
After noting that considerations bearing on a reserve require-
ment reduction at this time had been presented by Mr. Partee in a 
memorandum dated August 13, 1970, the Chairman recalled that he had 
argued against the 5 per cent alternative chiefly on the ground that 
it would put some pressure on the New York City banks and he doubted 

2358 
8/17/70 
-3-
whether this was the time to put pressure on those banks. Under the 
4-1/2 per cent plan, those banks would in effect neither gain nor 
lose reserves. He saw no reason at this time to revise the System's 
monetary policy target, but he felt that the addition to nonrequired 
reserves embodied in the 4-1/2 per cent plan might stimulate the Desk 
to get onto the target path, which it has not been doing. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he would be agreeable to 
either the 4-1/2 per cent or the 5 per cent plan. His only reservation 
with respect to the former was that it would release more than $340 
million of reserves to country banks without offset because they did 
not issue commercial paper. That drawback might be corrected by 
increasing the reserve requirements against demand deposits. In any 
event, however, he felt that the best course at this time would be to 
take an action that would be as neutral as possible. 
Governor Daane said that he also would like at this juncture 
to minimize the announcement effect and that he would prefer to use 
Desk operations if it were decided to supply any substantial additional 
amounts of reserves. He believed that announcement of a substantial 
release of required reserves at this time would contribute to general 
uneasiness that the System was giving up on its fight to curb inflation. 
Chairman Burns noted that reserve requirements had been raised 
several times through the 1960's and that if they were not brought down 

2359 
8/17/70 
-4-
now there might not be another good opportunity. He felt that a case 
could be made for a reduction now in view of the state of the economy. 
There was some worry about the budget and some people might feel that 
the Federal Reserve was expanding credit too fast, but there was also 
concern about the state of the economy. He observed that there had 
been a sharp widening of the yield differential between high-grade 
and other bonds, that while prices of issues on the New York Stock 
Exchange had shown some improvement, prices on the American Stock 
Exchange had shown little improvement, and that people were evidently 
becoming more quality conscious in the financial sphere. Banks 
maintained that they were ready to extend credit, but they appeared 
to be much more discriminating. That was probably a good thing for 
the longer run, but it posed a problem for the immediate future. 
Consumers appeared to be cautious in their buying habits and careful 
of their dollars. All in all, the situation suggested uncertainty. 
With regard to the action he favored—the 4-1/2 per cent plan— 
the Chairman noted that it would not be an extreme measure and said 
that he would not expect a great announcement effect. However, to the 
extent that it indicated to the general public that the Federal Reserve 
was taking steps to place the banks in a somewhat better position to 
make loans and investments, he thought it would be reasurring. On the 
other hand, if it were not for the position of the New York City banks, 

2360 
8/17/70 
-5-
he would accept the 5 per cent plan. But those banks had served the 
financial system and the economy well in recent weeks. They had put 
together lines of credit in a manner reminiscent of earlier days, and 
he thought their position had become somewhat strained of late. 
Governor Maisel expressed agreement with what had been said 
by Governors Mitchell and Daane. He noted that there had been a large 
growth in float in the 1960's that could be said to have more than 
offset the increases in reserve requirements. It was too late to 
restructure the float situation for purposes of any action to be 
taken at this time, but he thought that politically it would cause 
trouble. Further, he believed that the relatively small net increase 
in required reserves of New York City banks under the 5 per cent plan 
would present no great problem for those banks in relation to the 
magnitude of their total operations and swings in reserves. 
Question was raised whether there appeared to be any way to 
tailor the action to avoid that problem, and the staff indicated that 
the plans that had been presented appeared to be as reasonable as 
could be devised. 
Governor Brimmer raised the question whether any action at 
this time was advisable. Aside from the problem of tidying up the 
commercial paper proposal, which had been outstanding for some time, 
he saw no real advantage in acting at this time unless an announcement 

2361 
8/17/70 
-6-
effect was desired. He felt that monetary policy was on the right 
course, and he would be willing to live for a while longer with the 
untidiness involved in the commercial paper matter and the inequities 
associated with it. In his view, the more important objective was a 
restructuring of reserve requirements. 
When the Chairman observed that the Board could address itself 
to that problem promptly after the election, Governor Brimmer inquired 
whether it seemed wise in the meantime to take an action that would 
increase reserve availability just to tidy up the commercial paper 
situation. To the extent that additional reserves needed to be supplied 
to support a modest growth of credit over the months ahead, that could 
be done through open market operations. Also, the statistics on time 
deposits suggested that a substantial increase in funds from that source 
might be in the making. As between the two plans that had been put 
forward, he would regard the 5 per cent plan as the more acceptable. 
Governor Daane indicated that he also had some qualms from the 
standpoint of timing. If action was to be taken, however, he felt that 
it should be tailored to be as neutral as possible. 
Governor Sherrill said that he wanted to clean up the commercial 
paper aspect and that in his opinion this was a good time to make such 
a move. He favored the 4-1/2 per cent plan in order to effect some 
release of required reserves. It appeared justifiable to him, in light 

8/17/70 
-7-
of economic developments, for the Federal Reserve to make a modest 
positive move, and his view in that regard had been reinforced by the 
staff reports this morning. 
There followed some discussion of reasons why the Desk had 
been falling behind the targets for growth in the monetary aggregates, 
after which Governor Robertson said that it should be borne in mind 
that the first objective of the Federal Reserve was to fight inflation. 
The economic and financial situation, as described by the staff this 
morning, seemed quite good to him, and he felt that the System's 
program was on the right track. He would like to see the commercial 
paper matter cleaned up, but he would not be willing to release $700 
million of reserves in order to do that. He suggested an alternate 
possibility under which a 6 per cent reserve requirement would be 
imposed on bank-related commercial paper and demand deposit reserve 
requirements would be cut. As to the two proposals that were on the 
table for consideration, he could accept the 5 per cent plan, but that 
was as far as he would go. 
The Chairman then asked for an informal expression as to how 
many Board members favored the 4-1/2 per cent plan, and it appeared 
that four members would accept it, two of them reluctantly. On the 
other hand, it appeared that all Board members, except perhaps Governor 
Brimmer, would be willing to accept the 5 per cent plan. Some consid-
eration also was given to the posibility of a 4-3/4 per cent alternative, 

2 3 6 3 
8/17/70 
-8-
but there was little support for it. 
The 5 per cent plan was then discussed further, and Governor 
Brimmer indicated that he could go along with it reluctantly, partic-
ularly if the press release carried a neutral tone. 
Accordingly, the Board voted unanimously to amend Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, effective September 17, 1970, to apply a 
5 per cent reserve requirement against funds obtained by member banks 
through the issuance of commercial paper by their affiliates and 
amended the Supplement to Regulation D, effective October 1, 1970, to 
reduce from 6 to 5 per cent the reserves required to be maintained 
by member banks against time deposits in excess of $5 million. The 
Board also approved the issuance of an interpretation on the commercial 
paper action. 
(Note: In discussion of considerations bearing upon selection 
of an effective date, the Board had noted that banks would be allowed 
time to redeem commercial paper outstanding with a maturity of less 
than 30 days, which paper would be subject to the same reserve require-
ments as demand deposits, and that the net release of required reserves 
would come at a time when there should be significant seasonal needs 
for reserves.) 
The Chairman expressed the view that it would be advisable 
not to include in the announcement of the foregoing action any reference 

£ 3 6 4 
8/17/70 
-9-
to the outstanding proposal to apply Regulation Q ceiling rates to 
bank-related commercial paper. However, within a week or two the 
Board could consider the several possible actions in the Regulation Q 
area that had been either published for comment or suggested by the 
staff. 
After discussion, there was general agreement with that sug-
gestion. A draft of a press release intended for use in announcing 
the action just taken by the Board was distributed, and it was agreed 
to eliminate from the draft the several references therein to Regulation Q 
and other peripheral matters. It was agreed, however, that the Board 
should announce that the authority previously granted to the Federal 
Reserve Banks to waive penalties for reserve deficiencies connected 
with the application of reserve requirements to the commercial paper 
of subsidiaries had been withdrawn. 
Several other changes in the proposed press release were agreed 
upon, and the Board then authorized the issuance this afternoon of a 
press release in the form attached as Item No. 1. Also attached under 
—
—
—
—
—
—
— 
that number are copies of the regulatory amendments as published in the 
Federal Register, and of the related interpretation. 
In a further comment on Regulation Q, Governor Roberton said 
that in his opinion bank-related commercial paper should be covered 
by Regulation Q in the same manner as certificates of deposit. For 
large issues of such paper, it would appear inadvisable to suspend the 

8/17/70 
-10-
interest rate limitations only on maturities from 30 to 89 days 
because the paper would then be concentrated further in the short-term 
area. But he would treat bank-related commercial paper below $100,000 
in exactly the same way as equivalent certificates of deposit. 
The Chairman then invited discussion of suspending the interest 
rate limitations applicable to large-denomination CD's of all maturities, 
noting that that had been suggested by some on the ground that banks 
had been concentrating their certificates at the short end and that that 
was not good banking. 
While some Board members indicated that they would be inclined 
to favor such a move, they also indicated that they would prefer to 
wait for a while before making a decision. Other Board members indicated 
that they would be concerned about such a move, at least at this time, 
and that they would at least like to watch developments resulting from 
the action taken today. 
At this point members of the staff interested in the presenta-
tion of the two bank holding company cases listed on today's agenda 
joined the meeting. 
First Holding Company. After a summarization by the staff of 
the issues involved in the case, which had received preliminary consid-
eration earlier, the Board approved, with Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
and Brimmer dissenting, the application by First Holding Company, Inc., 

8/17/70 
-11-
Waukesha, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of First National Bank of 
Oconomowoc, Oconomowoc, Wisconsin. It was understood that an order 
and statement reflecting the decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration and that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 
Denver U. S. Bancorporation. Further consideration was given 
to the application of Denver U. S. Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, 
Colorado, to acquire shares of The Colorado Springs National Bank, 
Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
Chairman Burns stated that he had read the documentation on 
this case carefully and that he would vote to approve the application. 
The evidence suggested to him that the holding company affiliation 
would improve the services available to the community, and he saw no 
evidence that existing competition would be reduced appreciably. The 
case seemed to turn on the effects from the standpoint of potential 
competition. While that was difficult to judge, he found no compelling 
evidence that the effects would be serious. 
The Board then approved the application, Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, and Brimmer dissenting, with the understanding that an order 
and statement reflecting the decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration and that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance, including Mr. Sherman, Consultant. 

52367 
8/17/70 
-12-
Retirement System. In a memorandum dated August 10, 1970, 
addressed to the Board, the Joint Board-Presidents Committee on the 
Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks stated that after 
studying the views expressed by the Conference of Presidents at its 
meeting on June 22, 1970, the Committee had decided to reconsider 
the matter of handling investments and other features of the Retirement 
System with a view to arriving at a compromise that would have the 
unanimous support of the Committee. A basic factor in this reconsid-
eration was the belief of the Presidents, as indicated at the June 22 
meeting, that efficiency would be emphasized in handling the retirement 
plan by purchasing certain services from private parties rather than 
operating the plan within the Federal Reserve System. 
The Joint Committee had agreed that the investment function 
must be handled in a manner that would completely eliminate the Federal 
Reserve or any of its personnel from active or advisory participation 
in any aspect of investing Retirement System funds. It also agreed 
that this function should not be placed with any commercial bank or 
trust company. Thus, the Committee concluded that a group of insurance 
companies should be approached for the purpose of developing an arrange-
ment and establishing rules under which such companies would assume 
responsibility for the funds of the Retirement System, with suitable 
periodic reports to the Federal Reserve on their performance. Decisions 
as to whether the insurance companies would underwrite the risks, assume 

8/17/70 
-13-
responsibility for actuarial services, and administer the plan, 
including the making of disbursements to retired employees, would be 
arrived at in the light of detailed information to be developed on 
costs and other considerations of efficiency. 
matter and discussion in the light of those comments, the Board expressed 
agreement in principle with the proposal that a contract be sought under 
which a group of insurance companies would perform certain functions 
for the Retirement System. It was understood that the basic approach 
would be to investigate the feasibility, costs, and terms of a contract 
that the Federal Reserve might enter into with insurance companies for 
performing at least the investment function and perhaps also the under-
writing, actuarial, and administrative functions essential to sound 
operation of the pension system and assurance of the proper discharge 
of the obligations of that system. The Board authorized the Joint 
Committee to proceed with the detailed investigations required, in an 
effort to bring a draft of contract to the Board for consideration 
before the end of the year. 
After comments by Governor Maisel on the background of the 
The meeting then adjourned. 

;(K p 
f - y . je" JD "M it 
ifo; 
(c. [ei 
it 
If; 
M 
is- 
. 
Item No. 1 
8/17/70 
For immediate release. 
August 17, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
applied a 5 per cent reserve requirement on funds obtained by member 
banks through the issuance of commercial paper by their affiliates, and 
at^the same time reduced from 6 to 5 per cent the reserves that member 
banks must hold against time deposits in excess of $5 million. 
Both act 
ions will become effective in the reserve computation 
Period beginning October 1 and will be applicable on such deposits and 
commercial paper outstanding in the week beginning September 17. This 
coincides with the beginning of the fall period of seasonal expansion 
deposits and required reserves. 
The dual action will result in a reduction of required reserves 
about $350 million for the banking system as a whole. The extension 
reserve requirements to bank-related commercial paper is estimated to 
increase required reserves of the affected member banks by roughly $350 
million. On the other hand, the reduction in reserve requirements 
a8ainst time deposits over $5 million is expected to lower required re-
serves by some $300 million at banks issuing commercial paper, and by 
about $400 million at all other member banks. 
The greater portion of the net reserves thus released will 
become available to banks that in the present circumstances might be 
e*pected to use a sizable share of the available funds in financing 
bousing and state and local governments. 
Both actions of the Board were adopted unanimously. 

-2-
2370 
No change was made in the 3 per cent reserve requirement on 
a member bank's savings deposits, and time deposits of less than $5 
million. Today's action represents the first change in reserve re-
quirements since April 17, 1S69, when the Board increased reserves on 
demand deposits by one-half of one per cent for all member banks. 
Since most commcrcial paper is issued in denominations of 
$100,000 or more, the extension of reserve requirements to bank-related 
commercial paper will put instruments of this kind on a substantially 
equal footing, in terms of reserve requirements, with negotiable certi-
ficates of deposit issued by banks. 
In imposing reserve requirements on commercial paper issued by 
bank affiliates, the Board used for the first time the authority con-
tained in the Act of December 23, 1969, which explicitly authorized such 
action. The reserve requirement will apply to funds obtained by member 
banks through the issuance of commercial paper or similar obligations by 
their affiliates. 
Presently, about $7.5 billion of bank-related commercial paper 
is outstanding. Over the past year, the amount of such paper had risen 
by $5.5 billion. 
At the time the new reserve requirements become effective, 
the permission initially granted on November 4, 1969, to the Federal 
Reserve Banks to waive penalties for reserve deficiencies connected with 
the application of reserve requirements to subsidiaries' commercial paper 
W l l be withdrawn. 

-3-
2371 
In taking this action with respect to bank-related commercial 
paper, the Board urged member banks and their holding companies to comply 
vith the spirit and purpose as well as the letter of the rules regarding 
member bank reserve requirements. 
I 
-0-
Attachments 

TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Reserve Percentages 
1. Effective October I, 
1970, § 204.5(a) (Supplement to 
Regulation D) is amended to read as follows:' 
5 204.5 
Reserve requirements 
Reserve percentages. Pursuant to the provisions of 
section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act and § 204.2(a) and subject to 
Paragraph (b) of this section, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System hereby prescribes the following reserve balances which 
each member bank of the Federal Reserve System is required to maintain 
°n deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank of its district: 
(1) If not in a reserve city--
(i) 3 per cent of (A) its savings deposits and (B) its time 
deposits, open account, that constitute deposits of individuals, such 
a s Christmas club accounts and vacation club accounts, that are made 
under written contracts providing that no withdrawal shall be made 
until a certain number of periodic deposits have been made during a 
Period of not less than 3 months; and 

-2-
^ 3 7 3 
(ii) 3 per cant of its other time deposits up to $5 million, 
plus 5 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million; and 
(iii) 12-1/2 per cent of its net demand deposits up to $5 
million, plus 13 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million, 
(2) if in a reserve city (except as to any bank located in 
such a city which is permitted by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, pursuant to § 204.2(a)(2), to maintain the reserves 
specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph)--
(i) 3 per cent of (A) its savings deposits and (B) its time 
deposits, open account, that constitute deposits of individuals, such 
as Christmas club accounts and vacation club accounts, that are made 
under written contracts providing that no withdrawal shall be made 
until a certain number of periodic deposits have been made during a 
period of not less than 3 months; and 
(ii) 3 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 million, 
plus 5 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million; and 
(ii.i) 17 per cent of its net demand deposits up to $5 
million, plus 17-1/2 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million. 
Vf 
-k 
•>'< 
~k 
it 
2a. This amendment is issued pursuant to the authority 
granted to the Board of Governors by section 19 of the Federal Reserve 
Act to set reserve ratios (12 U.S.C. 461). Tha change is to decrease 
by 1 percentage point the ratio of reserves that must be maintained 
by a member bank against its time deposits in excess of $5 million. 
The change becomes effective in the reserve computation period beginning 
October 1 as to deposits outstanding in the week beginning September 17. 

2374 
-3-
b. There was no notice and public participation with 
respect to this amendment as such procedure would result in delay 
that would be contrary to the public interest and serve no useful 
purpose. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 17, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. D] 
PART 204--RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Certain Borrowings by Bank Affiliates as Deposits 
1. Effective September 17, 1970, § 204.1(f) is amended by 
adding the following sentence: 
"For the purposes of this part, 'deposits' of a member bank also 
include the liability of a member bank's affiliate, as defined in 
section 2 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 221a(b)), on any 
Promissory note, acknowledgment of advance, due bill, or similar 
obligation (written or oral), with a maturity of 7 years or less, 
to the extent that the proceeds are used for the purpose of supplying 
funds to the bank for use in its banking business, or to maintain the 
availability of such funds, except any such obligation that, if it 
> 
had been issued directly by the member bank, would not constitute 
a deposit in view of exceptions (1) and (2), above." 

- 2 -
2. The authority of the Reserve Banks to waive penalties 
for deficient reserves resulting from issuance of obligations by bank 
subsidiaries is withdrawn effective with the reserve computation 
period beginning October 1 as to deposits outstanding in the week 
beginning September 17. 
3a. The main purpose of the amendment is to maintain 
the effectiveness of the reserve requirements of Regulation D by 
applying those requirements to funds received by a member bank as 
the 
result of issuance of obligations (commonly described as commercial 
paper) by an affiliate. The operation of the amendment is further 
explained in the accompanying interpretation (12 CFR § 204.115). 
b. Notice of proposed rule making with respect to applying 
Regulation D to borrowings by bank affiliates was published in the 
Federal Register of January 29, 1970 (35 F.R. 1173). Expansion of 
the categories of affiliates subject to the regulations and shifting 
from the proposed 10 per cent reserve requirement on obligations 
With a maturity of less than 30 days to the usual demand deposit 
reserve requirement raise no new issues. The increase in the 
obligations covered as a result of expanding the maturity element 
from two to seven years is also insignificant as a practical matter, 
since few, if any, obligations covered have a maturity of two years 

-3-
or more. In these circumstances, and in view of the deferral of 
the effective date until September 17, 1970, the Board finds that 
further notice and public procedure with respect to the amendments 
are unnecessary and would be contrary to the public interest. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 17, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 
2377 

2378 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204--RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Commercial Paper of Bank Affiliates 
§ 204.115 Borrowings by bank affiliates as despoeits. 
Effective September 17, 1970, the Board of Governors has amended 
5 204.1(f) to apply the rules governing member bank reserve require-
ments (Regulation D) to funds received by member banks as the result 
of issuance of obligations by affiliates of the bank, including 
obligations commonly described as commercial paper. The following 
examples illustrate the effect of the amendment: 
(1) A corporation that controls a majority of the stock of 
a member bank establishes and acquires a majority of the stock of 
another corporation. Hiat corporation proposes to acquire $10 million 
by the public sale on September 1 of promissory notes in amounts of 
$100,000 or more with a maturity of 90 days and to use $5 million to 
acquire, on September 1, interests in loans made by the bank, $3 
million of which will mature in 90 days and $2 million of which 
^ill mature in 180 days. Under the amendment to Regulation D, $5 
million of the notes will become subject, on September 17, to a 

2 3 7 9 
-2-
5 per cent reserve requirement (assuming the member bank has 
other time deposits subject to § 204.5(a) of $5 million), which will 
continue as long as, and to the extent that, funds of the affiliate 
are used to maintain the availability of funds to the bank. 
(2) If, on September 15, the affiliate described in the 
preceding paragraph sells to a third person $1 million of the 90-day 
loans, the bank may thereupon reduce its deposits subject to time 
deposit reserve requirements by $1 million. If, on November 1, $1 
million of the affiliate's funds are again used to purchase from the 
bank notes maturing in 45 days, the bank must add back $1 million to 
its deposits subject to time deposit reserve requirements, even though 
the affiliate does not issue additional obligations. 
(If, between 
the sale of notes on September 15 and the additional purchase on 
November 1, the affiliate places the idle funds in a checking 
account with the bank, the usual demand deposit reserve requirement 
applies instead, for that period.) If, upon maturity on November 30 
of the affiliate's $5 million of obligations, the affiliate extends 
million thereof for 60 days and $2 million for 90 days, the $1 
million is subject to reserves only for 16 days - until the maturity 
of the 45-day loans - unless additional funds are channeled to the 
bank or repayments on the loans maturing in that time are deferred. 
If, on January 1, a portion of the $2 million 180-day loans is 
Prepaid, the amount of such prepayments will reduce the amount of 
the affiliate's obligations that are subject to reserves, unless 
additional funds are channeled to the bank. 

£ 3 8 0 
-3-
(3) A corporation that is majority-controlled by a company 
that also majority-controls a member bank proposes to acquire $10 
million by the sale of 90-day $100,000 promissory notes and use the 
proceeds to acquire all of the automobile loans of the bank. The 
bank will thereupon cease to engage in that type of lending. The 
amendments apply to an affiliate's obligations issued to finance 
such a reorganization, even though the shift of operations from the 
bank is on a one-time basis. The funds obtained by the bank may be 
used by it to expand its remaining lending activities, and the Board 
considers that such funds should be subject to reserve requirements 
at least as long as the affiliate holds the assets acquired from 
the bank. 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i). Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 461.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 17, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 
