MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 17, 19 72 

968 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, April 17, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance _2/ 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
The staff presented a review of international developments and 
domestic business and financial conditions of the kind customarily given 
advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of 
the relevant documentation have been placed in the Board's files. 
-1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

96S 
4/17/72 
-2-
Members of the staff who had attended only for purposes of the 
review then withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application of 
The 
Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, to issue a subordinated capital 
note. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Hume Bancshares, 
Inc., Hume, Missouri, to become a bank holding company through acquisition 
°f shares of Hume Banking Company, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the request of Connecticut Bane-
shares Corporation, New York, New York, for an extension of time within 
which to meet a condition imposed by the Board in connection with its 
acquisition of shares of Northern Connecticut National Bank, Windsor Locks, 

970 
4/17/72 
-3-
Connecticut. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
a s Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Marine Bancorporation. On January 31, 1972, the Board discussed, 
but deferred action pending availability of additional documentation, 
the application of Marine Bancorporation, Seattle, Washington, for per-
mission to retain shares of Coast Mortgage Company, also of Seattle. 
Als o pending was the application of Marine Bancorporation to acquire 
shares of Far West Securities Co., Spokane, a mortgage company. 
The Banking Markets Section recommended denial of the applica-
tion to retain Coast Mortgage Company in a memorandum of January 7, 1972. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation concurred in a memorandum of 
January 20. 
In memoranda of January 14 and 26 the Banking Markets Section 
and the Division of Supervision and Regulation, respectively, recommended 
aPproval of the application to acquire Far West Securities Co. 
Supplemental memoranda explored the impact of acquisition by 
Marine Bancorporation in 1969 of Coast Mortgage Company on mortgage 
activity of that company and of Marine Bancorporation's bank (National 
Bank of Commerce, Seattle). The recommendations of the Department of 
Justice and the applicant's responding comments were also analyzed. 
The Department raised the issue, among others, that the Board should 
aPply the same criteria for a retention of shares that it did in eval-
uating a proposed acquisition. 

971 
4/17/72 
-4-
Discussion at today's meeting indicated agreement with the 
Legal Division's recommendation that the same standards be used in 
•Evaluating applications for new activities as for retentions of 
activities commenced between June 30, 1968, and December 31, 1970. 
The application to retain shares of Coast Mortgage Company was 
•improved. on condition that land development activities be discontinued. 
Governors Robertson and Sheehan dissented from this action. The appli-
cation to acquire shares of Far West Securities Co. was denied by 
unanimous vote. It was understood that implementing documents would 
be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
(Mr. 0'Connell reminded the Board that a decision to approve 
retention of Coast Mortgage Company, which conducted some insurance 
business, would necessitate a decision on a petition by the National 
Association of Insurance Agents that a hearing be held in connection 
with a number of applications under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act to determine more specifically the permissibility of insurance 
activities conducted by proposed subsidiaries involved in those applica-
tions. It later developed that Marine Bancorporation withdrew those 
elements of its applications that related to insurance activities. The 
holding company indicated that it expected to submit a separate applica-
tion later with respect to such activities.) 
Charter Bankshares Corporation. In a memorandum of April 6, 
^972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 

972 
4-/17/72 
-5-
°f the application of Charter Banlcshares Corporation, Jacksonville, 
Florida, to acquire shares of The First State Bank in St. Petersburg, 
St. Petersburg, Florida. A draft order was attached. 
The Board approved the application, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
It was understood that a revised form of draft order would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration, and that a dissenting statement also 
Would be prepared. 
Grandfather rights of holding companies. The Bank Holding 
Company Act amendments of 1970 required, in general, discontinuance of 
nonpermissible nonbanking activities within two years of the formation 
°f a bank holding company. However, one bank holding companies that 
commenced a nonbanking activity between June 30, 1968, and January 1, 
1971, were permitted to retain the activity until January 1, 1981; and 
0 ne bank holding companies that commenced a nonbanking activity prior 
t o June 30, 1968, were permitted to continue to engage in the activity 
Ur*til ordered by the Board to discontinue. Pursuant to action on 
October 21, 1971, the Board published for comment a proposed amendment 
to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, that would generally require 
Such grandfathered companies to divest nonbanking activities within 
two years after they required an additional bank, unless the Board ruled 
otherwise. In a memorandum of March 22, 1972, the Legal Division weighed 
the arguments for and against the proposed amendment, judged in the con-
text of comments received. The Division recommended that, rather than 

973 
4/17/72 
-6-
adopt the amendment, the Board consider on its merits each application 
by a grandfathered company to acquire the stock of an additional bank. 
A draft order was attached. 
A principal theme of the discussion at today's meeting was a 
Portion of the draft order specifying the kind of information that 
should accompany an application by a grandfathered company to acquire 
an additional bank and describing circumstances in which denial might 
be expected. Views were expressed that those passages were too much 
xn the nature of prejudgment and limitation upon the considerations to 
b e taken <into account. 
Governor Robertson said that in his view the Board did not have 
Efficient support in the statute for the kind of action contemplated 
hy the original proposal. He advocated that it be withdrawn, and that 
letters be written to the relatively small number of grandfathered 
companies to inform them of the kind of information that would be 
needed if they should seek to acquire an additional bank. During the 
j • 
Ulscussion the staff mentioned adverse considerations regarding the 
Su8gestion that letters be sent to the individual holding companies 
involved. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the original proposal 
was preferable and the Board would encounter difficulty in a case-by-
case approach. The grandfathered companies should have the choice 
between retaining their privileges by limiting themselves to a single 

974 
4/17/72 
-7-
bank subsidiary, or of relinquishing those privileges by divesting 
their nonbanking interests if they wanted to acquire an additional 
bank. In later comments he assented to the majority view in favor 
°f the ad hoc approach. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the case-by-case approach 
recommended by the Legal Division was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that changes would be made in the draft order, subject 
to clearance with Governors Robertson and Mitchell, to reflect the 
views that had been expressed. Issuance of the order as thus revised 
was authorized. > Attached under Item No. 4 are copies of the press 
Please and order subsequently issued. 
Draft approach to foreign central banks. In a memorandum of 
March 28, 1972, the Division of International Finance referred to the 
Board1s approval late in 1971 of the applications of three Japanese 
banks to become bank holding companies through establishment of sub-
sidiary banks in the United States. The Board had stated that it 
intended " to develop and maintain continuing surveillance over the 
activities of United States subsidiary banks of all foreign bank hold-
ing 
companies to assure that the relationships between all foreign bank 
folding companies and foreign or United States enterprises are and 
remain consistent with the separation of banking from commerce in this 
country." The staff was requested to explore alternative courses. 

975 
4/17/72 
-8-
Attached to the Division's memorandum was a draft talking paper 
setting forth a regulatory philosophy and a rationale for the following 
possible actions by the Board: 
(1) support for a legislative proposal 
that would provide for Federal licensing and examination of all United 
States offices of foreign banks (agencies, branches, or subsidiaries) 
by 
a single Federal agency, rather than by individual State banking 
authorities as at present, thus providing a generally common standard 
and set of regulations for foreign banks desiring to establish operations 
in the United States; and (2) as an intermediate step, encouragement of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System for the United States banking 
affiliates of foreign banks. It was contemplated that the paper might 
b e used as a basis for seeking the views of foreign central bankers on 
the regulatory philosophy and the question whether they would see any 
difficulties arising from adoption by the Board of either or both of 
the steps that »the Board was considering. 
Discussion developed unanimous agreement in principle upon the 
statement. 
(In a memorandum of April 25, 1972, Chairman Burns designated 
Governors Mitchell and Daane as Board members having responsibility for 
carrying forward discussions with appropriate foreign central banks 
al°ng the lines of the statement, with the additional background provided 
previous discussions by the Board of the general question.) 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting. 

976 
4/17/72 
-9-
Chase Manhattan Overseas. In a memorandum of April 10, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
bequest of Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New 
York, for a three-year extension of time to permit its affiliate, 
Standard Chartered Bank Group Limited, London, England, to arrange the 
sale of its domestic subsidiary, Chartered Bank of London, San Francisco, 
f, 
r 
; 
, . • 
, 
' • 
; V ' 
. 
- ' 
• 
.; 1 > •• 
California. 
- m) T 
Discussion developed agreement upon an extension of the time 
Umit for one year rather than three. Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to the applicant in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
First National City Corporation. In a memorandum of April 10, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
o f the application of First National City Corporation, New York, New 
. 
- •. • r. ., , j j . . . .. i. 
Y°rk, a bank holding company, for permission to establish an Edge corpo-
ration in Chicago, Illinois, to be named First National City Bank 
(International-Chicago). 
This would be the fifth out-of-State Edge 
corporation affiliate for the holding company's parent bank, and no 
other bank at present had five such affiliates. 
The application was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting 
because he believed that Edge corporation affiliates of any one bank 
should be more strictly limited in number so that the banks now in the 
field would not be able to monopolize domestic participation in interna-
tional finance. Attached as Item No. 6 is a copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant, with which was transmitted a preliminary permit. 

977 
4/17/72 
- 1 0 -
Th e meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Director appointment. It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis whether James C. Hendershot, President, 
Reliance Universal, Inc., Louisville, Kentucky, would accept appointment, 
if tendered, as a director of the Louisville Branch for the unexpired 
Portion of the term ending December 31, 1974, with the understanding 
that, if he would accept, the appointment would be made. 
(It having 
been ascertained that Mr. Hendershot would accept, an appointment tele-
gram was sent to him on April 21, 1972 0 
Governor Robertson and Mr. F. Solomon reported on recent 
developments regarding Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, California. 
t 
The meeting then adjourned. 

m 
Mf 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
12 
Item No. 1 
4/17/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
H O A R D 
April 17, 1972 
u. 
Board of Directors 
The Union Commerce Bank 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of a $10 million 
subordinated capital note by The Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, 
Ohio, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Approval is granted with the understanding that the sale of this 
capital note will be consummated within six-months from the date of 
this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

Item No. 2 
4/17/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
HUME BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Hume Bancshares, Inc., Hume, Missouri, has applied for 
tfle Board's approval under 5 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
tlm>ugh acquisition of 89.3 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Hume Banking Company, Hume, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
aad views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
.Aftft ... 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
0 f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
e*Pres8 purpose of acquiring Bank which has aggregate deposits of 
aPProximately $.8 million. (All banking data are as of June 30, 
AppH c a nt has no present operations or subsidiaries, and 
ummation of the proposal would not adversely affect existing 
Of n 
Potential competition, nor have an adverse effect on any bank 
l n 
area. 
Applicant proposes to make an equal offer to all share-
Applicant's financial resources and future prospects 
r e dePendent upon those of Bank. However, its projected earnings 
P p e a r t o be sufficient to service the debt which it will incur 
uPon r 
c°n8ummation of the proposed transaction without adversely 

- 2 -
880 
Meeting Bank's capital structure. These considerations are con-
si8tent with approval of the application. Consummation of the pro-
Posed transaction would stabilize ownership and management of Bank, 
considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
future prospects of Bank thus weigh toward approval of the applica-
ti 
n* Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
0nimunities to be served are consistent with approval of the applica-
fcion. 
the 
It is the Board's judgment that the transaction would be in 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for *.L 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
Animated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
dftte 
c this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
0£ thi s Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the 
to 
Board > or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant 
legated authority. 
By order of the Board of GovernorsApril 17, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SE 
At] 
Hij. *>ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
c h e H , Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 

98 
Item No. 3 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
4/17/72 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S ; 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H L 
H O A R D 
April 19, 1972 
• Maurice Wiener 
Chairman of the Board 
Connecticut Bancshares Corporation 
°ne Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Dear Mr. Wiener: 
This is in response to your letter of March 20, 1972, 
which you request the Board's permission for an extension of 
time within which to acquire shares of minority stockholders of 
Northern Connecticut National Bank ("Bank"), 
The Board of Governors, by Order dated December 30, 1971, 
aPproved the application of Connecticut Bancshares Corporation to 
become a bank holding company through acquisition of 50.9 per cent 
the voting shares of Bank. The Board's Order stated that a 
fair and equivalent exchange offer will be made to all shareholders", 
3nd directed that consummation should not be effected before the 
^irtieth calendar day nor later than three months after the date 
o f the Order„ 
The Board has granted your request, pursuant to the plan 
s^t forth in your letter of March 20, 1972, for an extension of 
time. i n vhich to comply with the Board's Order of December 30, 
Your letter states that you propose to file with the SEC 
a registration statement within 15 days after receipt of audited 
statements for Connecticut Bancshares Corporation and Bank for the 
which ends on December 31, 1972. This registration statement 
*7Ul effect both the exchange offer and the public offering early 
1973. Under the exchange offer "the minority stockholders would 
offered $42.23 per share plus interest at 6% per year from 
ebtuary 16, 1972 to the date of exchange or, if higher, the then 

Maurice Wiener 
- 2 -
])ook value per share of the stock of NCNB, payable in (a) cash or 
( b) shares of common stock of the Applicant, valued at the then 
Proposed public offering price per share of such stock, or (c) any 
combination of cash or such stock so valued, as each stockholder 
chooses* 
At the saine time, shares would be sold in the public 
offering, as a result of which the Applicant's acquisition debt 
Would be eliminated and there would exist a public market for the 
Applicant1s stock." 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

S^fe- N 
-V 
; u 
r>\ ,y 1 
(u- 
«< 
B®®aLvv.- 
n 
uy' v S 
! 
. • ft me- ^ i ^ m ^ ••• M 
1 
983 
' V: • <..t • . ' f 
immediate re lea se 
Item No. 4 
4/17/72 
April 2!), 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System said 
tod ay it will c?ecidc on a case-by-case basis—rather than by a 
general re.gulation--how the "grandfather" clause in the 1970 amend-
to the Bank Holding Company Act will apply to one-bank holding 
Co®Panies that acquire additional banks. 
Under the grandfather provisions, some companies that con-
tr°lled one bank on December 31, 1970--the day the Act became law--
retain certain nonbanking activities on an indefinite basis. 
In 
0th*r cases, nonbanking activities must be divested within 10 years 
U n l e*s the Board determines that the activity is closely related to 
Last October 26, the Board proposed a regulatory amendment 
t o clarify the effect of the grandfather provisions on one-bank 
,lolciins companies that acquire additional banks. The proposal 
generally would have required divestiture of nonbanking activities 
Within two years after an additional bank was acquired, unless the 
B° a r d 
otherwise. 
The Board said the case-by-case procedure it has adopted--
l"»ther than a general regulation--will afford it "an opportunity to 
0>:at*ine the relatively few companies involved from the standpoint of 
^cthet the combination of banking and nonbanking interests for the 
described period of time is likely to have an adverse effect on the 
P'Jbij 
c interest." 
A copy of the Board1 s order relating to this matter is 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 225] 
•• :» • 
U 
-"'• • J • ' 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Acquisition of Additional Bank by Holding Companies with 
"Grandfather" Clause Privileges as to Honbank Interests 
On October 26, 1971, the Board of Governors offered for 
Public comment a*proposed amendment to Regulation Y (Federal Register 
of October 19, 1971, 36 F.R. 20779). In general the proposal provides 
that, if a company that became a bank holding company as a result of 
eriactment of the Bank Holding Act Amendments of 1970 acquires an 
Gd^tional bank, the authority Congress gave the company Co retain 
b a n k i n g interests on the basis of certain grandfather clauses in 
th°oe amendments must be relinquished no later than two years from the 
the additional bank is acquired, unless the Board's order approving 
aCflui&itlon o f t h e b a n k provides to the contrary. 
In the light of the comments received on the proposal, the 
Bo*rd has dccided to consider each application by a company with 
andfather 
benefits on a case-by-case basis, rather than adopt 
V h £ Proposed amendment as a general regulation. Such ad hoc procedure 
afford the Board an opportunity to examine the relatively 
'•Gv; companies involved from the standpoint of whether the combination 
°1: Nuking and nonbanking interests for the prescribed period of time 
U 
Xl-kely t o h a v e ari adverse effect on the public interest. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 17, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
4/17/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B D A R D 
April 18, 1972. 
Cbase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter dated December 1, 
1971, regarding the condition contained in the Board's letter 
of January 23, 1970, which granted permission for your Cor-
poration to acquire and hold shares in the Standard Chartered 
Bank Group Limited, London, England. 
The Board has reviewed the efforts of the Chartered 
Bank to cause its California subsidiary, Chartered Bank of 
London, to conform to the aforementioned condition regarding 
that bank's domestic activities. After careful consideration 
of all the circumstances, the Board has decided to grant per-
mission to your Corporation to continue to hold shares of the 
Standard Chartered Bank Group Limited on condition that the 
Chartered Bank will sell its shares in the Chartered Bank of 
London within a period of one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's letter of January 23, 1970, is amended accordingly. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
386 
Item No. 6 
4/17/72 
A D 13 R E f> S 
O F F I C I A L . c u r< R r. r, n N D E N r. E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 18, 1972 
•p. 
J-rst National City Corporation 
•^99 Park Avenue 
«ew York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Asso-
ciation and the Organization Certificate, dated October 4, 1971, of 
• J-rst National City Bank (International-Chicago), Chicago, Illinois. 
there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corpora-
-ion to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of 
le federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
°rSanization. 
the c 
by 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation IC, 
orporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
'^thorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
" S u e its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
-ertify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
^ citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
^nterest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
n cer the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States 
or 
c 5 ( y firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
^-xzens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
j ;ck specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
Pai>k?en P aid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
rfhr» 
i n 
c a s ^ a t i e a s t 25 per cent of his stock subscription, 
-/.after, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment 
of 
v?it the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance 
law. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that First National 
" y Bank (International-Chicago) will have no separate base under 
cit v 
th 
we •(• 
. 
• 
inv> 
credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans and 
•Ktmeuts will need to be made under the ceiling of First National 

First National City Corporation 
-2~ 
city Bank ("FNCB"). Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given 
^rth the understanding that any foreign loans and investment of the 
°rporation v/ill be made vjithin the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
Uncis as they apply to FNCB and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
^closure 

S8S 
B O A R D HP 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, U. C. 20551 
Preliminary Permit: 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that; the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this clay 
aPproved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated October 4, 1971, of FIRST NATIONAL CITY BANK (INTERNATIONAL-
CHICAGO) duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that FIRST 
NATIONAL CITY BANK (INTERNATIONAL-CHICAGO) is authorized to exercise 
such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are 
•'-ucidental and preliminary to its organization pending the issuance 
ky the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final 
Permit generally to commence business in accordance with the 
Provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of 
e Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
Pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF TI1E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(SEAL) (Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
