PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
July 21, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
4 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, July 21, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
iSupervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia and Miss Key of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
(copy attached as Item No. 1) to Brundidge Banking Company, Inc., Brun 
d i dge, Alabama, approving a proposed issuance of capital notes. 
The Board approved transmittal of a report to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 

177G 
7/21/71 
-2-
purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of The First National 
Bank of Ferndale, Ferndale, Washington, by Seattle-First National Bank, 
Seattle, Washington. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of 
The First National Bank of Ferndale by Seattle-First 
National Bank would eliminate some competition exist-
ing between them and increase the already high level 
of concentration in the State of Washington, where 
Seattle-First National Bank and the second largest 
bank hold about 51 per cent of total commercial bank 
deposits. Overall, the effect of the proposal on 
competition would be adverse. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Bank Shares, 
Incorporated, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire shares of Olmsted 
County Bank & Trust Company, Rochester, Minnesota, and authorized 
issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 2) reflecting that 
decision. 
First Commercial Banks. The application of First Commercial 
Banks, Inc., Albany, New York, for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through acquisition of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to National Commercial 
Bank and Trust Company, Albany, New York, and the voting shares of First 
Trust & Deposit Company, Syracuse, New York, was approved unanimously 
and the issuance of an order reflecting the decision was authorized. A 
copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
First & Merchants Corporation. With regard to the application 
of First & Merchants Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares 

1777 
7/21/71 
-3-
of the successor by merger to The First National Bank of Danville, 
Danville, Virginia, Governor Robertson expressed the view that in this 
case the applicant had not sustained the burden of proof that the pro-
posed transaction would be in the public interest, particularly since 
there appeared to be possibilities that the applicant could enter the 
community by means other than acquiring the largest bank. 
In the circumstances, further consideration of the application 
deferred until a meeting when more members of the Board could be 
present. 
Pan American Bancshares. On July 15, 1971, the Board discussed 
the application of Pan American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to 
acquire shares of Commercial National Bank of Broward County, Fort 
Lauderdale, Florida. 
(The application represented an amendment of an 
earlier proposal approved by the Board on October 23, 1970.) Questions 
were raised at the July 15 meeting regarding unequal treatment proposed 
for majority and minority shareholders, and the staff was requested to 
explore with the applicant the possibility of an adjustment of the plan. 
In a memorandum dated July 15, 1971, supplemented by comments 
at today's meeting, Mr. Leavitt indicated that the applicant was now 
willing to make the same cash offer to all shareholders. 
(Applicant 
had, however, for special reasons paid a fee of $200,000 to a third 
Party for delivery to it of 78 per cent of the bank's shares.) 

7/21/71 
-4-
Members of the Board expressed willingness, in the circumstances, 
to approve the amended application on the basis of the information 
Mr. Leavitt had received, it being understood that the Board's order 
would make clear that the Board was relying on the applicant's assurances. 
Governor Robertson commented that acceptance of the proposal should not 
be regarded as establishing a precedent, in view of the fee paid to the 
third party. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order reflecting this decision would be prepared for 
the Board's consideration. 
Private pension plans. A letter to the Senate Committee on 
Labor and Public Welfare regarding S. 2, a bill to protect the rights 
°f employees covered by private pension plans, was approved unanimously, 
subject to final review by Chairman Burns, who indicated that he wanted 
to give the subject further study and that he would bring the matter 
back to the Board if he concluded that any substantive changes should be 
made in the letter. 
A copy of the letter, as subsequently transmitted, is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
Reception for Bank-Fund delegates. In a memorandum dated July 15, 
the Office of the Secretary recommended that the Board hold a reception on 
Wednesday, September 29, for central bank delegates attending the Annual 
Meetings of the Boards of Governors of the International Monetary Fund, 

1779 
7/21/71 
-5-
the World Bank, and associated organizations. The reception would be 
similar to those given in other recent years when the Fund-Bank meetings 
were held in Washington. The estimated cost was $1,500. 
Discussion centered on possible alternatives that might be pref-
erable and problems inherent in them, such as the space and other limi-
tations involved in use of the Board's facilities. (It was considered 
desirable to invite the delegates to the Board's building rather than 
to resort to commercial accommodations.) The staff was then requested 
by the Chairman to explore the feasibility of arranging a buffet supper 
in the Board's building, with the understanding, however, that if that 
alternative did not prove workable the reception was approved. (Note: 
It was subsequently decided to hold the reception, since other arrange-
ments did not appear feasible in connection with this year's meetings, 
but with modifications from past years that would tend to alleviate some 
of the concerns mentioned during discussion of the staff memorandum.) 
Art program. Chairman Burns suggested consideration of a program 
for displaying works of fine art in the Board Room and perhaps elsewhere 
in the building, noting that a number of foreign central banks owned 
collections of museum quality. He reviewed preliminary conversations 
in which he had enlisted the cooperation of various parties looking 
toward the arrangement of loans from leading museums and the establish-
ment of a committee to seek donors. Some modest expense might be incurred 

1780 
7/21/71 
-6-
in connection with any loans, such as defraying charges for shipping and 
insurance. 
Governor Sherrill reviewed the history of efforts to promote art 
representation in the Board's premises, mentioning among other things that 
the budget for the Board's annex building had included a small percentage 
of the cost of construction for art work. 
.•V 
It was agreed that the next step should be the establishment of 
an internal committee to pursue various possibilities. Chairman Burns 
indicated that he would like to serve on such a committee along with 
other Board members, such as Governor Mitchell, who might be interested. 
' " • 
, 
M ' ' 1 ' ' 
' 
1 ' 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Mr. Kenyon. 
Director vacancy at New York. It was understood that Governor 
Robertson would discuss with President Hayes the taking of steps to 
ascertain the availability of Thomas J. Watson, Jr., Chairman of the 
Executive Committee of International Business Machines Company, for 
appointment as a Class C director at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New 
York to fill the current vacancy. 
Staff appointment. The Board approved the appointment of James 
L. Vining, currently an officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
as Assistant Director of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, 
effective September 1, 1971, with annual salary at the rate of $25,500. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary/ 

fiLREStV 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
1.781 
Item No. 1 
7/21/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 21, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Brundidge Banking Company, Inc. 
Brundidge, Alabama 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $100,000 in subordinated notes by Brundidge Banking Company, 
Inc., Brundidge, Alabama. 
It is noted that the proposed capital notes will have 
a maturity of 5 years. The Board has concluded exigent circum-
stances require the issuance of such obligations without regard 
to maturity provisions of Regulations Q and D. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1782 
Item No. 1 
9/21/71 
UNITED STATES Of AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BANK SHARES INCORPORATED, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Olmsted County Bank & Trust Company, 
Rochester, Minnesota. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Bank Shares Incorporated, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of Olmsted County Bank & Trust Company, 
Rochester, Minnesota ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Minnesota Commissioner 
°f Banks, and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
responded that he had no objection to approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on May 29, 1971 (36 Federal Register 9894), 
Providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all tho 
se received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant has four subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
°f $171,7 million, representing 1.8 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State. Applicant is the fifth largest banking 
organization and the fifth largest bank holding company in Minnesota. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
holding company acquisitions and formations approved through June 30, 
1971,) Consummation of the proposal herein would increase Applicant's 
share of commercial bank deposits in the State to 2.3 per cent, but 
Would effect no change in Applicant's position in relation to other 
hanking organizations. 

Bank, with deposits of $37.3 million, is the third largest 
of eight banks located in the Rochester banking market and holds 22.1 
per cent of area deposits. The two largest banks in the market, each 
affiliated with one of the two largest holding companies in the State, 
have 61.9 per cent of market deposits. Applicant's subsidiary closest 
to Bank is located 90 miles from it and, in light of this fact and other 
facts of record, notably, the close existing relationship between Appli-
cant and Bank, and the unlikelihood that Applicant would enter Bank's 
market de novo, it appears that acquisition of Bank by Applicant would 
not eliminate any significant existing competition nor foreclose future 
competition between Bank and any of Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
Indeed, consummation of the proposal herein may serve to enhance com-
petition between Bank and the two larger banks in the market without 
adverse affects on the five smaller banks within the market. On the 
basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any 
relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as satisfactory. 
Based on the record, it appears that Applicant is in a better position to 
Provide any needed financial and managerial support to the Bank.than the 
current owner of the Bank. The major banking needs of the Rochester 

-4-
area appear to be adequately served at present. Applicant proposes, 
however, to improve Bank's services by making the expertise of Appli-
i 
. i 
cant's Itead bank's trust department available to Bank, consolidating 
the data processing services it now obtains from four separate sources, 
and providing for Bank internal audits and management counsel relating 
to investments and credit policies. Thus, considerations related to 
financial and managerial resources as well as to convenience and needs 
of the community lend some weight in favor of approval. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, juiy 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, iiaisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Uitchell, Daane, 
and Brimmer. 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
j 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 1 
13/21/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST COMMERCIAL BANKS INC., 
Albany, New York, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
voting shares (less directors1 
qualifying shares) of the successor 
by merger to National Commercial Bank 
and Trust Company, Albany, New York, 
and 100 per cent of the voting shares 
of First Trust & Deposit Company, 
Syracuse, New York. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Commercial Banks Inc., 
Albany, New York [formerly, Heartland, Central N.Y. Corp.], for 
the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant would become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of 100 per cent cf 
the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the 

successor by merger to National Commerical Bank and Trust Companyt 
Albany, New York ("National Commercial"), and 100 per cent of the 
voting shares of First Trust & Deposit Company, Syracuse, New York 
("First Trust''). . 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and to the Superintendent of Banks of the State of 
New York, and requested their views and recommendations. The 
Comptroller did not object to approval of the application, and the 
Superintendent recommended approval. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 3, 1971 (36 Federal Register 10825), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 

1788 
-3-
Applicant is a newly-organized corporation. Upon consummation 
this proposal, Applicant will control $1.0 billion in deposits, 
representing 1.2 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the 
State, and would become the fourteenth largest banking organization 
seventh largest multi-bank holding company in New York. 
(Banking 
data, unless otherwise noted, are as of December 30, 1970, and reflect 
holding company acquisitions approved through June 30, 1971.) 
National Commercial ($705 million in deposits), has 58 
°ffices and operates throughout the Fourth Banking District of New 
It controls 30 per cent (as of June 30, 1970) of the commercial 
hank deposits in the relevant market, which is approximated by all of 
Albany, Schenectady and Rensselaer Counties and the southern portion of 
Saratoga County. On the basis of deposits, it is the second largest 
o f the fifteen banking organizations in that market. 
First Trust ($300 million in deposits) operates 34 offices 
all of which are located in the Sixth Banking District. It controls 
3 0 per cent (as of June 30, 1970) of the commercial bank deposits in 
the relevant market, which is approximated by Oswego and Onondaga 
Counties and the northern half of Madison County. On the basis of 
deposits, it is the largest of the eleven banking organizations in 
tl*at market. 
National Commercial and First Trust do not compete with 
each other to any meaningful extent, and it appears unlijfely they 
v°uld do so in the near future. No office of one is located within 
5 0 miles of any office of the other, and New York law prevents either 

1789 
-4-
banlc from branching or merging outside its Banking District. It 
appears that affiliation of the two banks in a holding company 
system would not have an undue adverse effect on other banks in 
the relevant markets, and would have the procompetitive advantage 
of creating an organization with sufficient resources to compete 
with large banking organizations in upstate New York as well as 
those based in New York City which are seeking to expand throughout 
the State. On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposal would not have a significant adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant market. 
The financial condition of each bank appears satisfactory; 
both are regarded as having competent managements and favorable 
prospects. It appears that Applicant will begin operations in 
satisfactory condition and with competent management; its prospects, 
which are largely dependent upon those of its two proposed subsidiaries, 
also appear favorable. Affiliation of the two banks should enable each 
to offer improved and expanded services. It is expected that National 
Commercial's specialization in financial services for local govern-
ments would be extended to Syracuse, and that First Trust would be 
able to offer more convenient international banking services. It 
is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the 
Public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons summarized above 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 

-5-
1790 
transaction so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
time is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and 
Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

1 
Item No. 4 
7/21/71 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
August 24, 1971 
The Honorable Harrison A. Williams, 
Jr. 
Chairman 
Committee on Labor and Public Welfare 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. 
Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for comment on a bill (S. 2) 
introduced by Senator Javits to protect the rights of employees 
covered by private pension plans. 
As you know, this bill represents a further effort to implement the 
broad guidelines on pension fund r e f o r m laid down by the 1965 report 
°f the President's Cabinet Committee on private pension plans. 
My 
P r e d e c e s s o r as Chairman of the Board of Governors was a m e m b e r 
°f that Committee. 
A l s o , Federal R e s e r v e staff participated in the 
interagency task f o r c e that translated the general guidelines of the 
Committee report into specific lejgislaiive proposals on vesting, 
Ending, and reinsurance. 
In 1968 when these legislative r e c o m m e n -
dations were finally transmitted to Congress, the Board stated its 
belief that the bill then proposed would provide "a generally balanced 
and carefully developed p r o g r a m which should help to achieve the 
important social objectives sought by the President's Committee on 
Private pension plans. " 
The Board continues to favor the requirement of minimum vesting 
and funding standards and the establishment of a Federal p r o g r a m 
pension fund reinsurance. 
Other agencies with direct responsi-
bility for the regulation and promotion of private pension plans are 
in a better position to comment on the details of legislative proposals 
achieve these objectives. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
