MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 5, 1969 

•/ " " A 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, September 5, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1J 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented by 
appropriate members of the staff. Copies of the relevant statistical 
materials have been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions who had been present for 
the purpose of the money market review then withdrew from the meeting 
except Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, and Keir of the Division of Research 
and Statistics and Messrs. Hersey, Norwood, and Gemmill of the Division 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2 7 ^ 5 
9/5/69 
-2-
of International Finance. Those who joined the meeting at this point 
included: 
Messrs. Hexter, O'Connell, and Sanders of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Kiley and Mcintosh of the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Messrs. Dahl, Egertson, and Lyon of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Kelleher of the Division of Administrative Services 
Other appropriate staff members representing several of the divisions 
also entered the room. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on 
September 4, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a 
report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed purchase of 
assets and assumption of liabilities of The First Bank of Valdez, Valdez, 
Alaska, an uninsured institution, by The First National Bank of Anchorage, 
Anchorage, Alaska, the conclusion stating that the proposed transaction 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Liberty State Bank. An application by Liberty State Bank, 
Hamtramck, Michigan, to establish a branch at 16673 East Fifteen Mile 
Road, Clinton Township, Macomb County, Michigan, was denied by unanimous 

2 7 8 6 
9/5/69 
-3-
vote, the Board having concluded that in all the circumstances involved, 
as detailed in a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation dated August 29, 1969, denial of the application would be 
preferable to other alternatives, one of which would have been simply 
to defer action until after the State authorization expired and another 
of which would have been to offer the bank an opportunity to withdraw 
the branch application if it so desired. A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
Colorado CNB Bankshares. An application by Colorado CNB Bank-
shares, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of Lakewood Colorado 
National Bank, Lakewood, Colorado, was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that an order and statement reflecting the decision 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Richmond building site. The Board approved unanimously a 
request from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond for permission to 
acquire two parcels of land in that city, as described in a letter from 
the Bank dated August 26, 1969, as the site for a new head office building, 
it being understood that the total cost associated with the acquisition, 
including land, fees, commissions, appraisals, engineering costs, and 
miscellaneous expenses, would not exceed $2 million. A copy of the 
telegram sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 2. 
Federal Reserve construction projects. Governor Sherrill 
advised that in order that the Board and interested Federal Reserve 

278? 
9/5/69 
-4-
Banks might be in a position to assess how to proceed in connection 
with System construction projects contemplated or presently under way 
in light of the President's statement yesterday with reference to a 
suspension of Government construction projects, he had initiated an 
inquiry to ascertain the exact nature and intent of the Presidential 
order. 
Federal funds transactions. A substantial amount of time was 
devoted to considering implications, as outlined in memoranda from 
the Legal Division and the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
August 22 and 28, 1969, respectively, of adopting the proposal that 
had been published for comment under date of June 27, 1969, to limit 
the scope of Federal funds transactions exempt from Regulation D , 
Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits. 
The discussion succeeded in establishing that all of the Board 
members present at today's meeting would favor in principle moving 
forward to the adoption of such amendments. 
In some cases, however, 
it was indicated that final votes might depend on resolving to the 
satisfaction of the members concerned certain critical questions involved 
in definition of the word "bank," even though a series of informal polls 
conducted by the Vice Chairman reflected general agreement on the 
sorting out for that purpose of a number of classes of actual or poten-
tial Federal funds market participants. Also, some members expressed 
the view that it might be advisable to republish the proposal for further 

2788 
9/5/69 
-5-
comment if it appeared that the Board was moving in the direction of 
a more restrictive definition than had been suggested by the original 
proposal. 
In addition, Board members suggested that it would be useful 
if further staff analysis were made available on certain questions that 
developed during today's discussion, including questions relating to the 
definition of "deposit" and to the prospective effects on financial 
markets of adoption of a proposal along the lines contemplated. 
It was understood that the subject would be considered again 
by the Board after the additional staff documentation had been made 
available. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
2 7 8 9 
Item No. 1 
9/5/69 
A D D R E 3 3 
O F F I C I A L 
C C S ' ? E 3 P D N C E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
September 5, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
Liberty State Bank, 
Han.tramck, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
Hie Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System has denied the application of Liberty State Bank, 
Bamtramck, Michigan, for permission to establish a branch 
at 16673 East Fifteen Mile Road, Clinton Township, Macomb 
County, Michigan. 
In reviewing this application, the Board concluded 
that establishment of the branch would serve the convenience 
of the area and recognized the need for Liberty State Bank 
to establish branches in order to achieve deposit growth. 
However, the weight toward approval of the application that 
is afforded by these considerations is more than offset by 
the bank's unsatisfactory capital position. Recognizing the 
need to strengthen your bank's capital structure and, indeed., 
to provide a sound basis for expected growth through de novo 
branching, you advise that you are now negotiating the sale 
of $1 million in capital notes which you anticipate will be 
consummated prior to year-end 1969. In view of your bank's 
relatively high ratio of both risk assets and deposits to 
total capital, the Board is unable to conclude that the addi-
tion of $1 million in capital, as proposed, will bring your 
bank's capital position to a satisfactory level. While the 
Board understands that consideration is being given to the 
sale of $3 million in preferred stock, no definite commitment 
to sell the stock has been given. The Board has concluded 
that it would be inappropriate to consider the proposed sale 
of $3 million in preferred stock until a definite commitment 
is given. 

Board of Directors 
-2-
Accordingly, until capital is placed in a 
reasonable relationship to need, the Board has concluded 
that it would not be in the public interest to sanction 
new branches for your bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed). Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 2 
M 
L C A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
T E L E G R A M 
9/5/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
September 5, 1969 
HEFLIN - RICHMOND 
Board authorizes you to acquire two parcels of land as described 
in Mr. Black's letter of August 26, 1969. It is understood that 
total, cost: including land, fees, commissions, appraisals, 
engineering costs, and other miscellaneous expenses associated 
with this acquisition will not exceed $2 million. 
FORRESTAL 
