Minutes for 
April 5, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office, Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
X A / 
r
 
u - — _ 

1275 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, April 5, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Plotkin and Robinson of 
the Legal Division 
Mr. Golden, Senior Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Lyon, Poundstone, and Rumbarger 
of the Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

1276 
4/5/67 
-20-
Item No. 
Letter to Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, 
1 
Tennessee, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish an in-town 
drive-in branch and commenting on the 
bank's capital position. 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
2 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent for Banco Atlantida, Tegucigalpa, 
Honduras, to acquire additional shares of 
Cia. Azucarera Hondurena, S.A. 
Letter to Bamerical International Financial 
3 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to the acquisition of shares of 
Societe Financiere Europeenne, Paris, France, 
and Societe Financiere Europeenne Holding, 
Luxembourg. 
Associated Bancorporation (Item No. 4). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated April 3, 1967, from the Legal Division 
relating to the application of Associated Bancorporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of 
shares of two nonmember insured banks in Wisconsin, including Milwaukee 
Western Bank of Milwaukee, the condition of which had been of continu-
ing concern to the interested supervisory agencies. On the basis of 
the December 1966 report of examination, the management and condition. 
°f the bank were still regarded as unsatisfactory. 
Pursuant to the understanding at the Board meeting on March 22, 
1967, Mr. O'Connell met with counsel for applicant and the President of 
Milwaukee Western Bank. Applicant's representatives urged that the 
Board act upon an oral request for withdrawal of the application and 

1277 
4/5/67 
-20-
that no public order be issued. Mr. O'Gonnell indicated, however, that 
the public nature of the proceeding would necessitate issuance of an 
order. Counsel for applicant then filed a written petition to withdraw 
the application, but requested that the Board's order not be published 
in the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
The Legal Division's recommendation was that the applicant's 
petition to withdraw its application be granted, that an order be pub-
lished in the Federal Register, but that no press release be issued 
and that the order not be published in the Bulletin. 
Mr. O'Connell commented that the applicant's desire to avoid 
publicity in connection with the withdrawal of its application appeared 
to reflect concern over possible public reaction to the news in the 
Milwaukee area, with a resulting adverse effect upon Milwaukee Western 
Bank. 
Governor Shepardson observed that the established practice was 
to publish official actions of the Board in the Bulletin, and he raised 
the question whether there were extenuating circumstances in the present 
situation sufficient to justify departure from the normal procedure. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that such deviation might be inconsistent 
with the principle that the public was entitled to have access to appro-
priate information. 
Governor Robertson, however, pointed out that the prevailing 
Practice had been to record in the Bulletin favorable or adverse actions 

1278 
4/5/67 
-20-
taken by the Board. In the present instance the Board was merely per-
mitting the withdrawal of an application. In those circumstances, he 
would be willing to acquiesce in the applicant's request. 
The staff pointed out that the proposed order would appear in 
the Federal Register and would be referred to in the Board's weekly 
release covering actions taken on applications in the bank supervisory 
area. 
Governor Brimmer then stated that release of the information 
in the manner described would meet his objection, which went to the 
point that he would not want to withhold from the public information 
as to the disposition of an application that, as a matter of public 
knowledge, had come before the Board. Governor Shepardson indicated 
that he too was satisfied. 
The Board then authorized issuance of an order granting the 
applicant's petition to withdraw its application. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 4. It was understood that appropriate notice 
would be published in the Federal Register. 
Application of First Virginia Corporation. A memorandum from 
the Division of Examinations dated March 23, 1967, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application by The 
First Virginia Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, to acquire shares of 
Cambria Bank, Incorporated, Christiansburg, Virginia. The Division's 
recommendation was favorable, as was that of the Banking Markets Section. 

1279 
4/5/67 
-20-
Following comments by Mr. Lyon in supplementation of the 
material that had been distributed, the application was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting 
this decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Messrs. Sammons, Egertson, Plotkin, Golden, Burton, Lyon, 
Poundstone, and Rumbarger then withdrew from the meeting. 
Proposed small business legislation (Item No. 5). There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated April 4, 1967, from the Division 
of Research and Statistics regarding a request from the Bureau of the 
Budget for the Board's views on two Small Business Administration draft 
bills. One bill would amend the Internal Revenue Code so as to change 
the present tax treatment of small business investment companies; the 
other would amend the Small Business Act and the Small Business Invest-
ment Act of 1958 so as to restructure the small business investment 
company industry and to establish a new administrative framework for 
financial assistance from the Small Business Administration. 
In February 1967, in response to an earlier request from the 
Bureau of the Budget, the Board offered certain suggestions with respect 
to a previous version of the latter bill but interposed no basic objec-
tion. Other Government agencies, however, did enter objections, and a 
revised version had now been submitted by the Small Business Adminis-
tration. 
It was suggested in the memorandum that the Board make no com-
ment on the provisions of the tax bill, which did not appear to relate 

1280 
4/5/67 
-6-
to the Board's area of responsibility. As to the other draft bill, it 
was suggested that the Board note reservations with respect to certain 
sections. Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the 
Bureau of the Budget reflecting these suggestions. 
Following discussion, unanimous approval was given to the pro-
posed letter. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation R. At the meeting on April 3, 
1967, preliminary consideration was given to a request from Discount 
Corporation, New York, New York, that the Board amend its Regulation R 
(Relationships with Dealers in Securities under Section 32 of the Bank-
ing Act of 1933) to permit securities firms having interlocking relation-
ships with banks to underwrite, distribute, and otherwise deal in State 
tax anticipation notes having a maturity of not more than thirteen 
months. Discount Corporation's immediate interest centered in its 
desire to participate in a syndicate to underwrite a forthcoming issue 
of New York State tax anticipation notes. The inquiry, however, gave 
rise to the broader question whether the Board wished to consider a 
more general amendment to Regulation R at this time. Discussion of the 
substantive issues involved was deferred pending receipt of a staff 
background memorandum. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated April 3, 1967, 
from the Legal and Examinations Divisions summarizing the issues involved 
and commenting upon possible courses of action. 

1281 
M5/61 
- 7 -
The memorandum noted that in November 1965 the Board amended 
Regulation R to allow interlocking relationships between member banks 
and securities firms when the latter confined their underwriting activ-
ities to an expanded list of securities that, except for general obli-
gations of States and political subdivisions thereof, was identical to 
the list of securities that a member bank could itself underwrite under 
section 5136 of the U.S. Revised Statutes and paragraph 20 of section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act. General obligations of States and political 
subdivisions thereof were excluded from the permissible list, princi-
pally because the quality of State and municipal issues was not uniformly 
high and it was deemed possible that such interlocking relationships 
might bring undue influence to bear on investment decisions of banks or 
bank customers. 
After exploring possible solutions to the problem, the Legal 
and Examinations Divisions suggested that the Board could (1) adhere to 
its traditional position and refuse to extend the exception in Regula-
tion R to include underwriting of any State or municipal obligations; 
(2) amend Regulation R as requested by Discount Corporation to include 
short-term tax anticipation notes of States (or some variant of a 
limited extension into very high grade, short-term general obligations 
of States); or (3) amend Regulation R to include among the exceptions 
all securities that State member banks may underwrite under section 5136. 
The Divisions recommended that the Board adopt the second alternative, 

9 
4/5/67 
-20-
with the understanding that the staff would then explore the third 
alternative further with the Reserve Banks and check on the number of 
firms that appeared to confine their dealings to general obligations 
of States and municipalities. 
Following summary comments by Miss Hart, discussion disclosed 
that several members of the Board were favorably inclined toward amend-
ment of Regulation R along the lines of the third alternative. 
Governor Robertson, however, suggested that a fundamental ques-
tion of procedure was involved. Regulation R was amended in November 
1965 after careful review, at which time arguments were advanced and 
accepted for omitting from the exceptions to the regulation general 
obligations of States and political subdivisions thereof. In his view, 
any change now should be made only after appropriate further review. 
He would, therefore, propose a fourth alternative course in which action 
on Discount Corporation's request would be deferred pending considera-
tion of the possibility of broadening the exceptions listed in the 
regulation to include general obligations of States and political 
subdivisions. 
During further discussion some question was raised regarding 
the usefulness of another review in the light of the attention given 
to the problem in 1965, but other comments suggested the possible 
desirability of reappraising the arguments that had resulted in the 
Board's decision at that time. 

1283 
4/5/67 
-20-
Chairman Martin then called for expressions of views on the 
action to be taken, and Governor Shepardson said he agreed in principle 
with Governor Robertson that the Board should not be pressured into 
acting on a matter of general applicability without adequate study. On 
the other hand, in view of the fact that the situation had been reviewed 
fully two years ago, he would have less hesitation than otherwise about 
moving ahead on a broad basis at this time. He found persuasive the 
arguments advanced for taking such action. On balance he was inclined to 
look with favor on an amendment to the regulation of the type described 
in the third alternative presented in the staff memorandum. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that it would be a mistake 
to amend the regulation to cover the specific request of Discount Cor-
poration. He would not object to the review suggested by Governor 
Robertson, although he did not believe that such a review would be 
particularly productive. 
Governors Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer also expressed themselves 
as favoring the more general amendment to the regulation. Chairman 
Martin agreed and observed the question was one of procedure. 
Governor Robertson stated that he, too, was so disposed. How-
ever, when the matter was considered in 1965, the Board reached a 
certain conclusion in regard to general obligations. That might have 
been the wrong decision, but it was reached only after careful study. 
Therefore, it seemed to him that any change from that position should 
be made thoughtfully and not in haste. 

1284 
4/5/67 
-20-
Further discussion developed a consensus in favor of not taking 
action at this time on the request of Discount Corporation and instead 
proceeding expeditiously, but along usual lines, to consider the ques-
tion of amending Regulation R in the manner described in the third 
alternative of the staff memorandum. Accordingly, it was agreed to 
publish in the Federal Register for comment a proposed amendment to 
Regulation R that would have the effect of permitting interlocking 
relationships between member banks and securities dealers whose under-
writing activities are confined to securities that member banks may 
lawfully underwrite. It was understood that Discount Corporation would 
be advised informally of the Board's decision not to accede to that 
firm's specific request. 
Miss Hart and Mr. Robinson then withdrew from the meeting and 
Mr. Sanders, Senior Attorney, Legal Division, entered the room. 
Truth-in-lending legislation. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated March 30, 1967, from the Legal Division (Mr. Shay) 
relating to S. 5, a bill to assist in the promotion of economic stabi-
lization by requiring the disclosure of finance charges in connection 
with extensions of credit. The Board would be charged with responsi-
bility for administration of the proposed legislation. A request had 
been received from Chairman Proxmire of the Financial Institutions Sub-
committee of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee for testimony of 
the Board on April 13, 1967, at the beginning of hearings on the bill. 

1285 
4/5/67 
-20-
In addition, Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency 
Committee had requested reports on similar bills introduced in the 
House. 
The memorandum summarized and commented on the provisions of 
S. 5, comparing them in detail with similar provisions in previous pro-
posals. It was the recommendation of the Legal Division, as set forth 
in the memorandum, that the Board adhere to the position consistently 
taken by it with respect to earlier truth-in-lending bills; namely, 
that the Board endorsed the objective of requiring creditors to disclose 
their finance charges, but felt that it would be inappropriate for the 
Board to administer such legislation. 
Mr. Shay recalled that in 1962 President Kennedy recommended 
that the truth-in-lending legislation then under consideration be 
administered by the Federal Trade Commission rather than the Board 
because the activities to which the bill was addressed were closely 
related to and often combined with trade practices that the Commission 
was already regulating. The Board strongly supported that recommenda-
tion at the time and had taken the same position on subsequent occasions. 
Other proposals had contemplated administration by the Board of that 
portion of the proposed legislation that would relate to financial 
institutions. This proposal for divided responsibility was also 
rejected by the Board. Of course, the Board might want to consider 
changing its posture to the extent of indicating that if it was the 

1286 
4/5/67 
-20-
wish of Congress the Board would accept the administrative responsi-
bility, though reluctantly, and would do the best job it could. 
In the present circumstances, Mr. Shay said, he had criticized 
many of the provisions of S. 5 in his memorandum without suggesting 
changes. Presumably, if the Board should decide to change its general 
position, it would want at some point to suggest amendments to provide 
a more workable piece of legislation for administrative purposes. This 
raised questions of both tactics and timing. 
In response to a question raised by Chairman Martin, Mr. Cardon 
expressed the view that there was more likelihood this year than in 
previous years that some form of truth-in-lending legislation would be 
enacted. Further, he did not believe that the Congress would accept 
the Federal Trade Commission as the administering agency, and other 
possibilities, such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the 
individual States, seemed remote. If Congress decided to vest the 
responsibility for administration in the Board, it would be necessary 
to consider what approach should be taken by the Board to obtain the 
best possible legislation. If the Board should propose amendments at 
this time, that could be interpreted by the Congress as being indica-
tive of support on the part of the Board and a willingness to administer 
the legislation if such amendments were adopted. An alternative 
approach would be to follow the Board's traditional course of endorsing 
the objectives of the proposed legislation but reiterating that it would 

1287 
4/5/67 
-20-
be inappropriate for the Board to administer such legislation. If the 
Board were nevertheless charged with the responsibility, it could 
subsequently attempt to negotiate on the terms of the legislation. 
Governor Daane said that he would favor the latter approach. 
Governor Maisel indicated, however, that he felt the question 
which agency should administer the bill should be separated from the 
question of perfecting amendments. It was his feeling that when the 
Congress requested the Board's views it was incumbent upon the Board 
to suggest whatever changes it considered appropriate to improve the 
legislation under consideration. If this procedure should be inter-
preted as indicating an interest in administering the truth-in-lending 
legislation, then the Board, if it so desired, should take a strong 
stand in opposition. 
Governor Mitchell said he was sympathetic to the view that the 
question of amendments should be separated from the question of adminis-
tration. Further, while he did not crave the responsibility of admin-
istration for the Board, it seemed to him that the Board could do as 
good a job as any other agency. It was possible that another agency 
might not administer the legislation well from the standpoint of finan-
cial institutions, which would be unfortunate. It might be better for 
the Board to express itself as willing to undertake the responsibility 
so far as financial institutions were concerned. 

1288 
4/5/67 
-20-
Governor Brimmer commented that he thought some legislation in 
this area was needed and would be enacted. With negotiations, he felt 
that it could be made workable. He, too, had given consideration to 
where the responsibility for administration and regulation might be 
placed. He had been hopeful that it could be included as a function 
of a bureau of consumer affairs in a combined Department of Labor and 
Commerce. However, it now appeared that there was little chance for 
the creation of such a bureau. While he would not want the Board to 
reach out for additional assignments, it seemed to him that it would 
be dangerous from the point of view of financial institutions to have 
responsibility for administration of the proposed legislation vested 
in the Federal Trade Commission, which had no expertise in the finan-
cial area. Instead, one of the regulatory agencies should have that 
responsibility, and the Board would appear to be the best qualified. 
Governor Shepardson remarked that the problem gave him much 
concern. The legislation would cover broad areas outside of financial 
institutions, and its administration, if vested in the Board, would be 
a real burden. On the other hand, if the law was to be administered 
effectively and equitably, he would not like to see the responsibility 
for administration split between two or more agencies. The Board had 
had enough experience with divided authority in the banking field to 
make him reluctant to go along with such an idea. 

4/5/67 
-15-
He would try to avoid getting the assignment, Governor 
Shepardson said. But since it appeared doubtful that this tactic 
would be successful, it seemed to him that the Board should be consid-
ering amendments of the broadest type possible so that the legislation 
would contain a minimum of detail. Latitude should be provided for 
administration of the legislation by the promulgation of appropriate 
regulations, which should be worked out carefully on the basis of 
cooperative studies that might well require as much as a year's time. 
Governor Robertson expressed doubt whether the Board could make 
a strong case for not accepting responsibility for administration of 
such legislation. In addition, he saw a danger in accepting such 
responsibility only insofar as financial institutions were concerned. 
He would like to see details omitted from the law so that the adminis-
tering agency could experiment with the issuance of regulations, which 
regulations could be amended from time to time as necessary. The 
administering agency might want to issue broad regulations first and 
fill in the gaps later. As to the time element, the administering 
agency should not be required to issue regulations within a period as 
short as six months from the date of enactment of the legislation. 
Also, the provisions relating to the use of an advisory committee or 
committees should be flexible enough to permit enlisting the best 
available talent. 

1290 
4/5/67 
-20-
Governor Robertson suggested that an effort be made to defer 
the date of Board testimony. He would then ask the Legal Division to 
develop what it considered to be the most desirable changes in the 
proposed legislation. He would approach the whole matter with an 
attitude of reluctance toward assuming administrative responsibility, 
but with evidence of recognition that this was an area in which the 
Board ought to be interested. 
Governor Robertson asked whether a deferment of the date on 
which testimony was to be given seemed possible, and Mr. Cardon replied 
that he thought at least a short deferral could be arranged. Governor 
Robertson noted that a deferral of even a couple of weeks would help 
the staff to work out the best kind of amendments. Mr. Cardon pointed 
out that an alternative would be to submit a general statement of the 
objectives of changes in which the Board was interested, with an offer 
to work with the Committee staff on the details. Governor Robertson 
agreed. 
Governor Brimmer asked whether he understood that the Board 
was concerned simply about the mechanics of administration, or whether 
the Board was saying that it would throw its weight in favor of the 
proposed legislation. The Board had never opposed the objectives of 
such legislation, but it had never participated in the framing of 
specific legislation. Matters were now at a stage where the Board's 
views would exert influence in pushing the proposed legislation ahead 

1291 
4/5/67 
-17-
or deterring its progress. The question was on which side the Board 
should throw its weight. 
Chairman Martin observed that the Board could not be against 
full disclosure; it never had been. The Board's objections had always 
gone to the difficulties of administration and to the question whether 
the Board should take on the administrative responsibility, particularly 
for a wider sphere than financial institutions. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the difference was between a 
negative attitude and an attitude of trying to make the proposed legis-
lation operational. In his opinion the Board should adopt an attitude 
of trying to make the legislation operational. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the view might be expressed 
that the Board supported such legislation in principle, after which 
the Board's spokesman could go on to point out some of the problems of 
administration and say, in effect, that if the Federal Reserve should 
be assigned the responsibility for administration there were a lot of 
changes that it would want to propose in the bill. 
Governor Daane commented that the Board had always been in 
favor of such legislation in principle. He would go along with that 
statement. Of course, it went without saying that if the Board was 
given the administrative responsibility, it would do its best. How-
ever, he would want to place considerable stress on the administrative 
difficulties involved in a program that would call for the Federal 
Reserve to go well beyond the normal sphere of its operations. 

1292 
4/5/67 
-20-
Governor Mitchell said he would interpret those comments as 
indicating that Governor Daane would be willing to accept a splitting 
up of administrative responsibility. 
Governor Maisel commented that he would be willing to exhibit 
an interest in the administrative problems involved. Whoever was given 
the administrative responsibility, the legislation would have to be 
made operational. At the same time he would express reluctance about 
accepting the administrative responsibility, perhaps not as strongly 
as Governor Daane but more so than implied by the comments of Governor 
Mitchell. He would like to see the Board participate in perfecting 
the bill even though the Board felt it was not necessarily the agency 
that should be given the task of administration. 
Governor Brimmer said it seemed to him that the real choice was 
between whether the administrative responsibility would fall to the 
Board or to the Federal Trade Commission or be split. He inquired 
whether the Board still felt that the Federal Trade Commission should 
be assigned the entire responsibility. 
Governor Maisel replied that he could not see why a split of 
responsibility would be too bad. In fact, he thought that would be his 
first choice, with assignment of full responsibility to the Board as a 
second choice and assignment of such responsibility to the Federal Trade 
Commission as his third choice. 

1293 
4/5/67 
-20-
Governor Robertson then suggested preparing for Board consider-
ation draft testimony that would deal first with the objectives of the 
bill and would record the Board as wholeheartedly in support of them. 
As to the question of administrative responsibility, the testimony 
could point out the difficulties involved, note that there might be 
some other agency that would be considered better equipped, but indi-
cate that the Board would do the best job it could if the Congress 
assigned it the responsibility, recognizing that the law would require 
administration extending into many areas and many kinds of institutions. 
The draft testimony could then indicate that whether or not the Board 
was the agency selected, it would like to submit suggestions for amend-
ing the language of the proposed law to vest broad powers in the admin-
istering agency so that the agency would be in a position to proceed 
by the issuance of regulations that could be amended from time to time. 
Further, the draft testimony could urge that the administering agency 
only be required to promulgate regulations and not be charged with 
11, • ; vrrvc ^ 
: 
\tv*u 
enforcement. While the draft testimony would not go into details, it 
would indicate that the Board would propose to submit suggestions on 
specific amendments at a later time. 
• U , 'J S.iC. U J. >..? Vi 
M C 
' v O . ' {"•:.;<! V-:.; 
O h 
• 
•.• i. c." 
:> K u I *.•••', 
« 
Governor Daane said he was in full accord on the first point 
and also on the third point. He still felt, however, that the real 
question lay in determining the stand that should be taken on the 
second point. It appeared to him that the members of the Board were 
not in full agreement. 

1294 
4/5/67 
-20-
Governor Brimmer commented that that was where the Board would 
have to make up its mind. Governor Maisel agreed and suggested that 
alternative expressions might be included in the draft testimony for 
the Board's consideration. 
Mr. Shay questioned whether there was a need to attempt to 
develop perfecting amendments unless the Board was willing to accept 
responsibility for administration of the legislation, and Governor 
Robertson replied that he had in mind preparing the draft testimony on 
the basis that the responsibility was going to be given to the Board. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
draft testimony along the lines that had been indicated would be pre-
pared for the Board's consideration within the next few days. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Par clearance legis-
lation had now been passed by both houses 
of the Minnesota State legislature and its 
enactment into law seemed certain. In the 
circumstances President Galusha of the 
Minneapolis Reserve Bank advised that he 
could see 110 objection to the Board's now 
submitting to the appropriate Congressional 
Committees proposed legislation that would 
require all insured banks to pay checks 
drawn upon them at par, that is, without 
deduction of exchange charges. Accordingly, 
such letters were sent under date of April 4, 
1967, to the Chairmen of the Senate and House 
Banking and Currency Committees. Copies of 
the respective letters are attached as 
Items 6 and 7. 

A 
• • • • 
,.. 
( 
„ 
4/5/67 
• •v. • 
a < 
-21-
A letter was sent today to Bank of America 
National Trust and Savings Association, San 
Francisco, California, acknowledging receipt 
of notice of its intent to establish an addi-
tional branch in Panama, to be located in 
David. 
On April 4, 1967, Governor Shepardson approved 
on behalf of the Board a memorandum of the same 
date from the Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration recommending that the Board's summer 
employment program be enlarged to include three 
additional positions at the undergraduate level 
i)' i 
• t'V i ' 
( 
- • 
Secretary^) 
,"?y. 
.*j;i.*c»yl:> £ > i.i' V ' ' '.< v< / . 
I • • •• • 
i <\ ci vc - .i. o 
, a . -;.} i s 
, 'ih.i iii:;^ ;. •, 
o; 
p^ovt 1 tv. 
;/< 
• iiV'-vi. I 
<; 
ft '• tri •! 
•/: • La Li • 
Li ..J >,/: . 
.u !.;•'•••.. i 
> V 
.7' •• 
" • 
' ' — 
,J L:T;;tt ;.i., ! . ' 
.<: >' CM P i. IC: ' 
. 
u <•"• 1 
v, •:. •! I li \K. i' L ' ifi s • ;.« .pi-v; 
V r ..o:1.;;'' 
cou.no.-; 
.'U-U 
r.h 
U"u 
in 
! i : - . 
m 
L ; O ! 
r ill 
. 
V r v na; 
•rl.'L* • 
i^o ;. 
it; S, c ' .i'J.:"1 

1296 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
4/5/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 5, 1967 
.'• •• •!-.' i • r - 
i' is,L »1 ."• , 
t 
•> 
.i 
n • i: 
Board of Directors, 
Commerce Union Bank, 
Nashville, Tennessee. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to July 1, 1967, the time within which 
Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, Tennessee, may establish 
a drive-in branch in a shopping center in the vicinity 
of the intersection of Thompson Lane and Powell Avenue, 
Nashville, Tennessee. 
The last examination of your bank indicates a 
less than satisfactory capital position. The Board 
urges that all means to improve this condition be 
considered and that action in this regard be taken in 
the near future. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

24 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
4/5/67 
A O D H E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O W H t S P U N D E N C t 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 5, 1967. 
i'i v.. Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
•' i • 
Gentlemen: 
v-V J 
As requested in your letter of March 6, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for Banco Atlantida, 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, to purchase and hold 202 additional 
shares of Cia. Azucarera Hondurena, S.A., a Honduran com-
pany engaged in the business of operating a sugar mill in 
Honduras, at a cost of approximately US$10,100, provided 
such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
,.1.» 
Ui'J 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl. R, Jtekke 
• • . • it 
• LMi 
>>'. 'J . ; 
i i: 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
r 

, • V, o¥ 
•. 
1298 
BDARD D F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
4/5/67 
A U O M E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • W R C 8 I ' O N D (C N O l 
TO 
t h e 
h o a r d 
April 5, 1967. 
Bamerical International Financial Corporation, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your application of March 9, 1967, 
supplemented by your letter of March 15, 1967, the Board of Governors 
grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 12.5 per 
cent of the shares of Societe Financiere Europeenne, Paris, France, 
at a cost of approximately US$316,484, provided such shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter. The Board 
also grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 16.66 
Per cent of the shares of Societe Financiere Europeenne Holding 
("SFEH"), Luxembourg, at a cost of approximately US$843,958. In 
this connection, the Board approves the purchase and holding of 
shares of SFEH in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capi-
tal and surplus. 
The 
that the inves 
eign loans and 
National Trust 
York, will not 
exceed the gui 
credit restrai 
foregoing consents are given with the understanding 
tments now being approved, combined with other for-
investments of your Corporation, Bank of America 
and Savings Association, and Bank of America, New 
cause the total of such loans and investments to 
delines established under the voluntary foreign 
nt effort now in effect and that due consideration 
l s being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary, 

129< 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Item No. 4 
4/5/67 
In the Hatter of the Application of 
ASSOCIATED BANCORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
Pursuant to Section 3 of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 
DOCKET No. 
BHC-74 
ORDER GRANTING PETITION TO 
WITHDRAW APPLICATION 
There has come before the Board of Governors a petition by 
Applicant in the above matter that its application for permission to 
become a bank holding company, pursuant to section 3 of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1042), be considered withdrawn and that the Board 
enter an order acknowledging withdrawal of the application and terminating 
the proceeding thereon without prejudice. 
The Board being fully advised in the premises, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED: 
(1) That the Petition to Withdraw Application filed on behalf of 
Associated Bancorporation is granted. 
(2) That the proceeding pending before the Board involving the 
said application is terminated without prejudice, and the record in the 
latter closed. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 5th day of April, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. Merritt Sherman 
Herritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

J 300 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
• F T H E 
4 / 5 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 5, 1967. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
As sistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, Dc Ce 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your Legislative Referral Memorandum 
of March 27, 1967, requesting the views of the Board on a Small 
Business Administration draft bill "To amend the authorizing legis-
lat ion of the Small Business Administration, and for other purposes." 
The Board has no objection to Title I of the proposed legislation nor 
to Title II section 3, to which you especially directed its attention. 
However, it wishes to express its reservations about two other sections 
of Tide II. 
Section 4 differs from the original draft bill in part by 
establishing dollar ceilings on the amount of both 2-to-l and "third 
dollar" financing of SBICs by SBA. While the Board favors some lim-
itation on the dollar amount of Government financial assistance 
available to any SBIC, it feels that the proposed ceilings are too 
high for any but very special situations. For this reason, it would 
like to suggest again, as it did in its February 15 comments on the 
previous bill, that the bill itself include the requirement that the 
maximum amount be provided only in such special situations. 
Section 5 of Title II, which deals with the kinds of SBIC 
investment that qualify as "equity capital" for purposes of "third 
dollar" financing by SBA, does not appear to provide the exact and 
realistic definition that was intended. The Board feels that further 
work is needed on formulating such a definition. 
f W ^ f ' 

Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
The draft bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code, which 
also was sent to the Board, does not relate to its area of respon-
sibility and consequently the Board has no comments on it. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1302 
B D A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
4/5/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • 
C. 
S 0 5 5 I 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 4, 1967 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In some areas of the United States, many of the commercial 
banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System make charges 
for the payment of checks drawn on themselves when the checks are 
presented by mail. These charges are generally known as "exchange 
charges" and the banks that impose such charges are referred to as 
"nonpar banks" because they do not pay at par, i.e., at face value, 
all checks drawn on them. 
Deposits in checking accounts constitute the bulk of our 
country's money supply. The efficient operation of our economic 
machine requires that checks, like currency, be interchangeable at 
their face value. Present provisions of the Federal Reserve Act 
expressly prohibit the making of exchange charges against the Federal 
Reserve Banks and, as a practical matter, all checks drawn on member 
banks and collected through the Federal Reserve collection system 
are paid at par. Whatever reasons may have once existed for the 
making of exchange charges, it is the Board's opinion that, under 
today's highly developed system of check collection, there is no 
sound reason for any bank, whether member or nonmember, to pay 
less than the face amount of checks drawn upon it. Any expense 
that a bank incurs in the payment of checks should be absorbed by 
the bank or borne by its customers - the depositors who drew the 
checks - rather than by the payees or indorsees. This is the 
practice followed today by most banks. 
It is obvious that nonpar banking involves inequities. 
For example, a seller of goods or services who is willing to accept 
checks in payment may receive less than the price agreed upon if 
the purchaser draws his check on a nonpar bank. On the other hand, 
he may receive full payment even if the check is drawn on a nonpar 
bank, because some such banks follow a discriminatory practice of 
"parring" items only for certain persons. In any event, as long 

1303 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
as banks are permitted to impose exchange charges, a seller cannot be 
certain that he will receive full payment for checks that he accepts 
for his goods or services. 
In addition to such inequities, nonpar banking involves 
unjustified costs and inefficiencies. For example, where a collecting 
bank presents a check to a drawee nonpar bank and pays an exchange 
charge and the charge is passed back through other collecting banks 
to the payee's bank and ultimately to the payee, each of the banks 
as well as the payee must make appropriate reversing entries in its 
books to take account of the fact that the item was not paid at its 
face amount. 
The unjustified costs and inefficiencies of nonpar banking 
often take a somewhat different form. Some banks are willing to 
"absorb" exchange charges on checks cleared through them in return 
for the maintenance of a minimum deposit by the forwarding bank. 
To pass a check through such a bank frequently involves circuitous 
routing, perhaps to places quite distant from the drawee bank, thereby 
unnecessarily delaying the time of payment of the check. 
While nonpar banks today obtain substantial income from 
charging exchange, banks that have shifted from a nonpar to a par 
status have been able to operate profitably through the substitution 
of an appropriate system of service charges levied against their 
depositors for the expense of handling transactions in their accounts. 
Thus, while the elimination of exchange charges will greatly facilitate 
the efficient operation of our nation's banking system, the loss of 
exchange income need not be detrimental to individual banks. 
v 
For the reasons indicated above, the Board, in its Annual 
Report to Congress for 19 65, recommended enactment of legislation 
that would require all insured banks to pay checks drawn on them at 
par, that is, without deduction of exchange charges. The Board is 
making a similar recommendation in its Annual Report for 1966. In 
order to afford nonpar banks a reasonable time within which to adjust 
their practices, it is recommended that such legislation be made 
effective one year after the date of its enactment. A draft of a 
bill for this purpose is enclosed herewith. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 

1304 
D R A F T 
f . 
A 
B I L L 
To require all Insured banks to clear checks at par. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 18 of 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S,C, 1828) is amended by adding 
the following subsection: 
"(k) No insured bank shall pay any check drawn on it at 
less than its face amount or make any charge, by exchange or otherwise, 
against a person in his capacity as payee or indorsee for the payment of 
such checks and remission of the proceeds thereof. For each violation 
of this subsection, the offending bank shall be subject to a penalty of 
not more than $100, which the Corporation may recover for its use," 
SEC. 2, The first paragraph of section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 342) is amended by striking ": Provided further, 
That nothing in this or any other section of this Act shall be construed 
as prohibiting a member or nonmember bank from making reasonable charges, 
to be determined and regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, but in no case to exceed 10 cents per $100 or fraction 
thereof, based on the total of checks and drafts presented at any one 
time, for collection or payment of checks and drafts and remission 
therefor by exchange or otherwise; but no such charges shall be made 
against the Federal reserve banks". 
SEC. 3, The amendments made by this Act shall become 
effective one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 

1305 
o f c o v f •. t 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
0 F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 C 5 5 I 
Item No. 1 
4/5/67 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 4, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of February 7, 1967, 
requesting a report on H.R. 2095, introduced by Mr. Hanna, and 
H.R. 3890, introduced by Mr. Annunzio, to require all insured banks 
to clear checks at par. The Board of Governors strongly urges en-
actment of such legislation with the modifications hereafter indicated. 
In some areas of the United States, many of the commercial 
banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System make charges 
for the payment of checks drawn on themselves when the checks are 
presented by mail. These charges are generally known as "exchange 
charges" and the banks that impose such charges are referred to as 
"nonpar banks" because they do not pay at par, i.e., at face value, 
all checks drawn on them. 
Deposits in checking accounts constitute the bulk of our 
country's money supply. The efficient operation of our economic 
machine requires that checks, like currency, be interchangeable at 
their face value. Present provisions of the Federal Reserve Act 
expressly prohibit the making of exchange charges against the Federal 
Reserve Banks and, as a practical matter, all checks drawn on member 
banks and collected through the Federal Reserve collection system 
are paid at par. Whatever reasons may have once existed for the 
making of exchange charges, it is the Board's opinion that, under 
today's highly developed system of check collection, there is no 
sound reason for any bank, whether member or nonmember, to pay less 
than the face amount of checks drawn upon it. Any expense that a 
bank incurs in the payment of checks should be absorbed by the bank 
or borne by its customers - the depositors who drew the checks -
rather than by the payees or indorsees. This is the practice fol-
lowed today by most banks. 

1306 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
It is obvious that nonpar banking involves inequities. For 
example, a seller of goods or services who is willing to accept checks 
in payment may receive less than the price agreed upon if the pur-
chaser draws his check on a nonpar bank. On the other hand, he may 
receive full payment even if the check is drawn on a nonpar bank, 
because some such banks follow a discriminatory practice of "parring" 
items only for certain persons. In any event, as long as banks are 
permitted to impose exchange charges, a seller cannot be certain 
that he will receive full payment for checks that he accepts for 
his goods or services. 
In addition to such inequities, nonpar banking involves 
unjustified costs and inefficiencies. For example, where a col-
lecting bank presents a check to a drawee nonpar bank and pays an 
exchange charge and the charge is passed back through other 
collecting banks to the payee's bank and ultimately to the payee, 
each of the banks as well as the payee must make appropriate re-
versing entries in its books to take account of the fact that the 
item was not paid at its face amount. 
The unjustified costs and inefficiencies of nonpar banking 
often take a somewhat different form. Some banks are willing to 
"absorb" exchange charges on checks cleared through them in return 
for the maintenance of a minimum deposit by the forwarding bank. To 
pass a check through such a bank frequently involves circuitous 
routing, perhaps to places quite distant from the drawee bank, thereby 
unnecessarily delaying the time of payment of the check. 
While nonpar banks today obtain substantial income from 
charging exchange, banks that have shifted from a nonpar to a par 
status have been able to operate profitably through the substitution 
of an appropriate system of service charges levied against their 
depositors for the expense of handling transactions in their accounts. 
Thus, while the elimination of exchange charges will greatly facilitate 
the efficient operation of our nation's banking system, the loss of 
exchange income should not be detrimental to individual banks. 
For the reasons indicated above, the Board, in its Annual 
Report to Congress for 1965, recommended enactment of legislation 
that would require all insured banks to pay checks drawn on them 
at par, that is, without deduction of exchange charges. The Board 
is making a similar recommendation in its Annual Report for 1966. 
In order to afford nonpar banks a reasonable time within which to 
adjust their practices, it is recommended that such legislation be 
made effective one year after the date of its enactment. A draft 

±307 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-3-
of a bill for this purpose is enclosed herewith. This draft would 
accomplish the same objectives as H.R. 2095 and H.R. 3890, but it 
would provide for deferment of the effective date and, in the 
interest of clarity, repeal a provision of present law. 
Sincerely yours, 
> v 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 
