Minutes for 
April 12, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date, 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advis 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1388 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, April 12, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Spencer, Staff Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Porter, Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Golden, Senior Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring, Senior Technical Assistant, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Messrs. Lyon, Supervisory Review Examiner, and 
Burton, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Branch application (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to Marine Midland Trust Company of Central New York, 
Syracuse, New York, approving the establishment of a temporary branch 
at 7 South First Street, Fulton, New York, with the understanding that 

1889 
4/12/67 
-2-
operations conducted at that office and at 19 South First Street would 
be discontinued when permanent quarters for the bank's operations in 
Fulton were completed. The letter also called attention to the liquid-
ity position of the bank. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Application of Geneva Shareholders, Inc. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated March 1, 
1967, and other pertinent papers with regard to the application of 
Geneva Shareholders, Inc., Warsaw, New York, for prior approval of 
action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of not 
less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of Wyoming County Bank and 
Trust Company, Warsaw, New York. Geneva Shareholders, Inc., would con-
tinue to be a majority-owned subsidiary of Financial Institutions, Inc., 
Warsaw, New York, a registered bank holding company; consummation of 
the proposed acquisition of shares of Wyoming County Bank and Trust 
Company would cause the applicant to become a bank holding company 
within the meaning of section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
since the applicant owned a majority of the voting shares of The 
National Bank of Geneva, Geneva, New York. 
The recommendations of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
the Division of Examinations, and the Banking Markets Section were all 
favorable. 
After the salient facts of the application had been reviewed 
by Mr. Lyon, the application of Geneva Shareholders, Inc., was approved 

1897 
4/12/67 
-3-
unanimously, with the understanding that an order and statement would 
be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Holding company application form. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated April 6, 1967, 
submitting a revised Form F.R. Y-2 (Application for Prior Approval of 
Acquisition of Bank Shares pursuant to Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended). Work on revising the form 
had been in process for some time, and the objectives of certain revi-
sions had been discussed at earlier Board meetings. 
The revised form, which incorporated suggestions of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, represented the combined efforts of the Legal and Exam-
inations Divisions and the Banking Markets Section. The principal 
change from the current form was in the delineation of a bank's service 
area. The revised form would request the judgment of the bank's offi-
cers as to the approximate extent of the bank's service area and would 
request an indication of significant differences between the areas for 
various major services. Other changes in the proposed revision were 
primarily a matter of form and represented an attempt to derive neces-
sary information from a more simplified questionnaire. 
The memorandum noted that the revised form would be ready for 
immediate use following approval by the Board and clearance by the 
Bureau of the Budget. It was contemplated that Form F.R. Y-l, the form 
used in making application to become a bank holding company, would then 
also be revised. 

1897 
4/12/67 
-4-
At the Board's request Mr. Lyon reviewed the changes that were 
proposed in the Y-2 form, noting that Governor Mitchell had met with 
staff on a number of occasions to discuss the subject. 
Governor Mitchell expressed his satisfaction with the revised 
form and indicated that he viewed it as an appropriate step toward 
streamlining procedures while obtaining accurate data as a basis for 
reaching decisions. Now that the work on this form had been completed, 
work on the Y-l form could get under way. Also, negotiations should 
proceed with the other bank supervisory agencies in developing uniform 
standards for merger applications. The Board at this point also might 
wish to consider again sending a letter to the Reserve Banks regarding 
the manner in which information should be assembled on merger and hold-
ing company applications. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that the Board had deferred sending 
such a letter at his request pending exploration with the staff regard-
ing the degree of cooperation existing between the research and examin-
ing departments at the Banks, as well as the procedures followed for 
exchange of information between the Board's Division of Examinations 
and the Banking Markets Section. He had discussed this matter with the 
staff, with a view toward the development of a communication that could 
be sent to the Banks on procedures for strengthening the function of 
economic analysis. He was convinced that this was essential, and it 
was his impression from visits to Reserve Banks that they would need 
assistance in accomplishing the objective. 

i:\92 
4/12/67 
-5-
Other Board members agreed with the desirability of improving 
the coordination of Reserve Bank examining, research, and legal re-
sources in the processing of merger and holding company applications. 
It was understood that a communication to the Reserve Banks along the 
lines previously discussed would be presented for the Board's further 
consideration. 
Governor Maisel spoke of the possibility of furnishing the 
Reserve Banks a summary of pertinent court decisions in the antitrust 
field, and Mr. Shay commented that although the Board's staff had not 
undertaken to compile such a collection, it had supplied memoranda 
analyzing various court decisions as they were rendered. 
Governor Mitchell observed that some Reserve Bank memoranda on 
merger and holding company cases seemed to suggest an unawareness of 
the trend of Board decisions. He inquired whether it would not be 
profitable to arrange a meeting with Reserve Bank personnel to provide 
an understanding of the factors at which the Board looked with partic-
ular interest when considering such applications. While there should 
be no attempt to condition the fact-finding of the Reserve Banks or to 
influence their judgment, he did not believe it made a good record if 
Reserve Bank memoranda seemed clearly at odds with Board decisions. 
Mr. Solomon pointed out that in each case the Reserve Banks 
were supplied with copies of the Board's statements and also copies 
of the memoranda submitted to the Board by the staff. 

1897 
4/12/67 
-6-
However, Governor Brimmer said he was convinced that the trans-
mittal of such material was not sufficient and that there was a need 
to bring in Reserve Bank personnel in order to share with them some-
thing of the atmosphere and provide some interpretation. 
Mr. Solomon mentioned the practice that had been followed by 
the Division of Examinations of bringing in Reserve Bank examiners from 
time to time to work with the Division for several months. He also 
noted that a year or so ago examining and research personnel were 
brought into the Board's offices for a meeting at which matters of the 
kind referred to by the Board members were reviewed. 
Mr. Hackley recalled that at the last conference of Reserve 
Bank counsel there was some discussion of the possibility of holding 
a seminar on antitrust laws, primarily for the education of Reserve 
Bank counsel. He said it was envisaged that such a meeting might be 
addressed by knowledgeable persons from within the Government and else-
where . 
Governor Maisel suggested that such a conference be broadened 
to include Reserve Bank examining and research talent, and Governor 
Brimmer said that while he would encourage such a venture he also saw 
need for an "in-house" conference limited to personnel from the examin-
ing, research, and legal functions at the Reserve Banks who worked with 
the Board's staff in processing holding company and merger applications. 
Governor Mitchell made the specific suggestion that the staff 
arrange a seminar next fall and that among other things the Legal 

1897 
4/12/67 
-7-
Division present a review of Board decisions for the purpose of examin-
ing the guidelines that were traceable therein. 
Governor Brimmer again called attention to the variations from 
one Reserve Bank to another in the degree to which research personnel 
appeared to be involved in the analysis of applications. He suggested 
that the research departments could hardly be expected to enter the 
field at their own initiative and that some definite expression from 
the Board therefore should be helpful. 
After further discussion during which general agreement with 
the foregoing views was indicated, the revised Form F.R. Y-2 was 
adopted. It was understood that work would proceed on a revision of 
Form F.R. Y-l. It was also understood that work would go forward on 
a revised bank merger application form and that negotiations would be 
undertaken with the other Federal bank supervisory agencies looking 
toward agreement on the use of similar forms by the respective agencies. 
Proposed revision of Regulation J. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated April 7, 1967, from Mr. Hackley that discussed and 
recommended tentative approval of a proposed revision of the Board's 
Regulation J (Check Clearing and Collection), with concurrent repeal 
of Regulation G (Collection of Noncash Items). A copy of the proposed 
Regulation J (under the title Collection of Checks and Other Items by 
Federal Reserve Banks) was attached. 
The memorandum noted that at its meeting on March 6, 1967, the 
Conference of Presidents had approved a joint report of the Subcommittee 

1895 
4/12/67 
-8-
on Collections and the Subcommittee of Counsel on Collections, dated 
February 23, 1967, recommending adoption by the Board of a complete 
revision of Regulation J, but with certain changes suggested in an 
attachment to a memorandum of March 3, 1967, from the Subcommittee of 
Counsel on Collections. Copies of the joint report of February 23 
heretofore had been furnished the Board; a copy of the March 3, 1967, 
memorandum from the Subcommittee of Counsel on Collections was attached 
to Mr. Hackley's April 7 memorandum. 
Mr. Hackley's memorandum pointed out that for more than two 
years the two Subcommittees of the Conference of Presidents had been 
engaged in a joint review of System documents relating to the collec-
tion functions of the Reserve Banks, i.e., Regulation G, Regulation J, 
and the cash and noncash collection circulars of the Reserve Banks. 
This review had been prompted principally by the need for coordination 
of the System's collection documents with the collection provisions of 
the Uniform Commercial Code, which Code had now been adopted in almost 
all States. The review had disclosed many disharmonies between the 
collection documents and current law and banking practices. 
The proposed new Regulation J would cover the collection of 
both cash and noncash items, replacing the Board's present Regulations G 
and J. The principal changes that would be made by the revision were 
summarized in an appendix to the joint report of the Subcommittees, a 
copy of which was attached to Mr. Hackley's memorandum. 

1897 
4/12/67 
-9-
The memorandum illustrated some of the changes that would be 
made by the proposed revision and noted that the Collection Subcommit-
tees would submit a supplemental report recommending adoption of revi-
sions of the collection circulars of the Reserve Banks; this report 
was to be considered at the June 1967 meeting of the Conference of 
Presidents. 
One of the reasons for deferment of submission of proposed 
revisions of the collection circulars was the need to consider whether 
such circulars should be regarded as "rules" of a Federal "agency" 
that must be published in the Federal Register pursuant to the Admin-
istrative Procedure Act. The Subcommittee of Counsel on Collections 
had concluded that the collection circulars were not required by Fed-
eral law to be published in the Federal Register, and Mr. Hackley 
concurred in that position for reasons set forth in his memorandum. 
At the Board's request Mr. Hackley discussed the reasons for 
the study that had been made of the collection documents, some of the 
problems that were dealt with, and the scope of the revised regulation. 
He recommended, if the Board tentatively approved the proposed new 
Regulation J, that it be published in the Federal Register for comments 
with a deadline of about May 15, 1967, for the receipt of such comments. 
In the discussion that followed, Governor Mitchell observed 
that while the work of the Subcommittees apparently had succeeded in 
bringing the present regulations up to date, the provisions of the new 

1 8 9 7 
4/12/67 
-10-
regulation might become obsolete rather quickly as further efforts were 
made to deal with the problem of float and take advantage of the possi-
bilities inherent in automation. He illustrated what he had in mind 
by describing certain possibilities and the effect that their adoption 
might have on collection procedures. He indicated that he would like 
to study further the extent to which the revised regulation would 
appear to accommodate such procedural innovations and said he might 
want to have some discussion with members of the Collection Subcommit-
tees in order to reassure himself on that score. 
Mr. Hackley commented that the Subcommittees had had very much 
in mind the possibility that the new regulation could go out of date 
in the relatively near future. However, the objective was to bring 
the existing documents up to date as far as possible. The new regula-
tion was more in conformity with present practices than the existing 
regulations, and it could of course be amended as necessary from time 
to time. The same would be true in the case of the Reserve Bank oper-
ating circulars that would implement the new regulation. 
Mr. Kiley agreed that the adoption of the new regulation would 
be a step in the right direction and noted that its adoption would not 
preclude going further if circumstances warranted. He suggested that 
it might be possible to incorporate in the operating circulars some of 
the thoughts that had been expressed by Governor Mitchell. 

1897 
4/12/67 
-11-
The Board then authorized the publication of the proposed new 
Regulation J in the Federal Register for receipt of comments. 
Foreign travel. As recommended in a memorandum of April 11, 
1967, from the Division of International Finance, the Board authorized 
travel by Robert F. Emery, Economist in the Division of International 
Finance, to several Southeast Asian countries in connection with a 
study of Southeast Asian financial institutions, such tour being tenta-
tively planned for mid-September to mid-December 1967. It was under-
stood that detailed arrangements would be subject to approval by the 
Board member in charge of internal administrative affairs. 
There followed an executive session of the Board, after which 
the meeting adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
Item No. 2) approving the appointment of Donald G. Roberts as assis-
tant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis (copy attached 
as Item No. 3) approving the appointment of Michael Joseph Pint as 
assistant examiner. 
Memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated April 10, 1967, 
recommending that a request be submitted to National Archives for 
Congressional authorization for a destruction schedule for certain 
case files on guaranteed loans made pursuant to Regulation V (Loan 
Guarantees for Defense Production). 

1899 
B D A R D 
OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
• F T H E 
4/12/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
/ 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
' 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Marine Midland Trust Company 
of Central New York, 
Syracuse, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment of a temporary branch 
at 7 South First Street, Fulton, New York, by Marine 
Midland Trust Company of Central New York, Syracuse, New 
York. It is the Board's understanding that branch opera-
tions conducted at 7 South First Street and 19 South 
First Street will be consolidated when permanent quarters 
for these two branches have been completed. 
The Board notes that the last examination report 
contained comments on your bank's less than satisfactory 
liquidity position. The Board trusts this matter is 
receiving your continuing attention. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1400 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
4/12/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of April 6, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Donald G. Roberts as an assistant exam-
iner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Please 
advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1401 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N • R S 
Item No. 3 
4/12/67 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
Mr. M. H. Strothman, Jr., 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Strothman: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of April 6, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Michael Joseph Pint as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
effective April 24, 1967. 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1967 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Garmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
