609 
5-67) 
Minutes for January 22, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
UJ..' 

Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Monday, January 22, 
1968. The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Axilrod, Eckert, Keir, Beck, Bernard, 
Ettin, Kelty, and Kichline of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
i.J ... . 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Katz, Baker, 
Dunn, Gekker, Pizer, Ruckdeschel, and Stem 
of the Division of International Finance 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification at 
the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 
Removal of gold cover. Mr. Hackley reported that the Bureau 
°f the Budget had requested by noon today the views of the Board on a 
Proposed bill, backed by the Administration, to repeal the gold reserve 
requirement against Federal Reserve notes. It was expected that such 
a bill would be introduced tomorrow by Chairman Patman of the House 
Banking and Currency Committee. The proposed bill was similar in 
effect to H.R. 6428, introduced by Congressman Reuss last year, on 
which the Board reported favorably. 
In addition, however, the new 

1/22/68 
-2-
bill would repeal the gold reserve requirement against United States 
notes and Treasury notes of 1890. 
After discussion Mr. Hackley was authorized to advise the 
Bureau of the Budget that the Board favored the proposed bill. 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty reported on conditions in the 
Government securities market, Mr. Beck commented on recent and prospec-
tive bank credit developments, and Mr. Baker summarized foreign exchange 
and gold market developments, with emphasis on the recent pressure on 
the Canadian dollar. Copies of the several charts and tables distrib-
uted in connection with today's review have been placed in the Board's 
files. 
There followed further discussion with respect to the Canadian 
situation, after which the members of the research divisions withdrew 
from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Cloth, Attorney, Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Lawrence, Lougee, and Wiles, 
Economists, Division of Research and Statistics 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
Posed merger of Allen's Depository, Inc., St. Stephen, South Carolina, 
into The Bank of Berkeley, Moncks Corner, South Carolina, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion stated 
that the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 

1/22/68 
-3-
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 
liabilities of Silverlake National Bank, Los Angeles, California, by 
National Bank of Commerce at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclu-
sion stated that the proposed acquisition would have no adverse com-
petitive effects. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Citizens Valley 
Bank, Albany, Oregon, with First National Bank of Independence, 
Independence, Oregon, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Corporation. The conclusion stated that the proposed merger 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Michigan National Bank matter (Item No. 1). Several bills "to 
Permit the establishment and operation of certain branch offices by the 
Michigan National Bank, Lansing, Michigan," had been introduced in the 
Congress in recent years. In response to requests from the Senate 
Banking and Currency Committee, the Board had reported unfavorably on 
each of the bills, most recently on April 24, 1967, with respect to 
S. 356. 
The bills would permit Michigan National Bank to reestablish 
and operate as branches, at such locations as approved by the Comp-
troller of the Currency, one office in Saginaw and three offices in 

1/22/68 
-4-
Grand Rapids, or any of them, such branches having been in lawful 
operation as branches of Saginaw National Bank, Saginaw, Michigan, 
and First National Bank, Grand Rapids, Michigan, prior to their con-
solidation with Lansing National Bank under the name Michigan National 
Bank, Lansing, Michigan. At the time of the consolidation, in 1940, 
the Comptroller of the Currency ruled that the four offices in ques-
tion could not lawfully be operated as branches of the continuing bank. 
In a letter dated October 13, 1967, Senator Proxmire noted that 
the various reports of the Board on the proposed legislation did not 
specifically address themselves to the legal arguments presented by 
Michigan National Bank. He therefore requested the comments of the 
Board on the question whether the Comptroller of the Currency was in 
fact correct when he ruled that Michigan National Bank could not oper-
ate the four branches in question. 
There had now been distributed a proposed reply to Senator 
Proxmire which, after summarizing relevant provisions of law, concluded 
that, while the provisions of the Michigan Financial Institutions Act 
might have been construed in such a way as to permit the operation of 
the branches in question, it was questionable whether the restrictive 
language of the Federal statutes would have permitted a similar inter-
pretation. Consequently, the letter would state, the Board was not 
Prepared to controvert the Comptroller's decision in 1940 that the 
appllcable statutes did not permit operation of the four offices by 
Michigan National Bank. 

1/22/68 
-5-
During discussion Governor Maisel suggested a rephrasing of 
the language immediately preceding the statement that the Board would 
not wish to controvert the Comptroller's decision and Mr. Hexter sug-
gested the inclusion of a reference to an opinion by the U. S. Attorney 
General that tended to support the line of reasoning followed by the 
Comptroller. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he was inclined to give some 
weight to an opinion rendered in 1940 by a former Counsel to the 
Michigan State Banking Commission, which opinion was to the effect 
that operation of the offices in question as branches of Michigan 
National Bank was intended to be permitted under the State law. 
Governor Maisel recalled that in a recent case involving whether a 
State member bank had the right to establish a branch in a certain 
area the Board accepted the interpretation of State law made by the 
State banking authorities. 
It was brought out, however, that in that 
instance, and in other similar situations, interpretation of State law 
by a State authority had been the fundamental issue, whereas in the 
case under discussion the question turned on interpretation of Federal 
law. Governor Maisel then commented that the thrust of the proposed 
better to Senator Proxmire, as emphasized by the language change he 
(Governor Maisel) had suggested, was simply that on the legal question 
the Board did not want to "second-guess" the Comptroller. 

1/22/68 
-6-
Following further discussion during which Governor Brimmer 
indicated that he would want to review the situation in detail if the 
Board's views were requested on any new bill introduced on behalf of 
Michigan Nat ional Bank, unanimous approval was given to the trans-
mittal of a letter to Senator Proxmire in the form attached as Item 
No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Pursuant to the action 
taken by the Board at its meeting on Janu-
ary 8, 1968, it had now been ascertained 
that John M. Fox, Chairman of the Board of 
United Fruit Company, Boston, Massachusetts, 
would accept appointment, if tendered, as a 
Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston for the unexpired portion of the 
term ending December 31, 1970. Accordingly, 
an appointment wire was sent to Mr. Fox today. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointmpnt-
Rose L. Arnold as Secretary, Division of Personnel Administration 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,937, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
•§jjlary increase 
Abner Thompson, Pressman-Photographer, Division of Administrative 
Services, from $7,384 to $7,779 per annum, effective December 31, 1967 
Acceptance of resignations 
Mary C. Barry, Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business January 26, 1968. 
Mary K. Nantell, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business January 31, 1968. 

S 2 1 8 
1/22/68 
-7-
• vv 
•'.. • ••• 
On January 22, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No, 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
2 
regarding the application of The Bank of Montpelier, 
Montpelier, Indiana, for continuation of deposit 
insurance after withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
" 
.- 
, 
; 
It • „ 
' 
O 
< 
> 
• 
Letter to Villa Park Trust & Savings Bank, Villa 
3 
Park, Illinois, granting an extension of time 
within which to accomplish membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
s e 
Secretary 

-1. 
BOARD OF GOVERN• RS 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 1 
1/22/68 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
January 22, 1968. 
The Honorable William Proxmire, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of October 13, 1967, 
regarding S. 356, a bill to permit the establishment and operation 
of certain branch offices by the Michigan National Bank, Lansing, 
Michigan, concerning which the Board's views were expressed in a' 
letter to the Senate Banking and Currency Committee, dated April 24, 
1967. You ask specifically whether the Comptroller of the Currency' 
was correct when he ruled, in 1940, that the Michigan National Bank 
could not lawfully operate as branches one office in Saginaw, 
Michigan, and three offices in Grand Rapids, Michigan, which'were 
in lawful operation as branches of the Saginaw National Bank, 
Saginaw, Michigan, or The First National Bank, Grand Rapids,' 
Michigan, prior to their consolidation with other national baika 
under the title Michigan National Bank. 
In 1940, subsection (b) of section 5155 of the Revised 
Statutes (12 U.S.C. 36) provided that a State bank converting into 
or consolidating with a national bank, or two or more national banks 
consolidating with each other, could "retain and operate any of 
their branches which may have been in lawful operation" prior to 
February 25, 1927. As none of the four offices in question was in 
operation prior to that date, subsection (b) could not provide 
authority for the continued operation of such offices as branches 
of the resulting bank. 
Subj ect to the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency, 
subsection (c) of section 5155 provided for the establishment of new 
branches of national banks. These four offices were not within the 
limits of the city, town, or village in which Michigan National Bank 

9 9 n 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
-2-
was to be situated. Accordingly, their establishment and operation as 
out of town" branches of said bank could be approved by the Comptroller 
only, in the language of subsection (c), "if such establishment and 
operation are at the time authorized to State banks by the statute law 
of the State in question by language specifically granting such authority 
affirmatively and not merely by implication or recognition. . . . " 
The geographical restrictions contained in section 34 of The 
Michigan Financial Institutions Act limited branch banking, insofar as 
Michigan National Bank was concerned, to "the same county as said parent 
bank or within twenty-five miles of the principal office . . . or 
within the limits of the city or village in which said bank'is located!" 
None of the four offices met these requirements for establishment as new 
branches. However, section 34 was modified, with respect to the establish 
raent of branches of a consolidated bank, by section 114 of the Michigan 
Act, which provided in part that: 
" [notwithstanding the provisions of any law 
to the contrary, any consolidated bank resulting from 
the consolidation of two or more State banks or any 
one or more banks or trust companies, . . . and any 
State bank or national banking association which 
purchases the assets of a State bank . . . may 
establish and operate as a branch or branches the 
consolidating bank or banks or any bank which sells 
its assets to another State bank or national banking 
association. . . . " 
(Emphasis added.) 
Whether the pertinent provisions of The Michigan Financial 
nstitutions Act were properly construed by the Comptroller as permitting 
continuing bank, following a consolidation, to retain as a branch only 
^ e main office of the consolidating bank but not the branches of such 
nk, or, more simply stated, whether the underlined words in section 114 
eferred only to the main office of the bank and did not include its 
ranches, is the issue to be resolved. 
Although it was not entirely clear what the Michigan legislature 
ntended to encompass by the expression "bank", it is to be noted that 
^ ) said Act did not contain a definition such as would resolve the issue, 
(2) as provided by subsection (c) of section 5155 of the Revised 
atutes, establishment of an out-of-town branch had to be authorized by 
e statute law of the State in language specifically granting such 
uthority affirmatively and not merely by implication or recognition. 
In his letter, dated July 9, 1940, to Norman 0. Tietjens, Office 
the General Counsel, Treasury Department (Senate Hearing Record, 
51), Mr. E. B. Merry, Counsel to the Michigan Banking Commission when 
ection 114 was enacted, stated: 

The Honorable William Proxmire 
-3-
"Section 114 does not refer specifically to the 
established branches of the selling bank or banks. In 
other words, the statute does not expressly state that, 
in the purchase [for example] by the Flint Bank of the 
assets of the Bay City Bank the Flint Bank may establish 
and operate as branches both the main and branch offices 
of the Bay City Bank. 
"However, in my opinion section 114 authorizes 
such action." 
(Emphasis added.) 
While it might have been possible to infer that the word "bank" had 
been intended to include branches, there is a question whether the 
restrictive language of section 5155(c) would permit such an infer-
ence in the case of national banks. 
Moreover, the case for strict construction of terms used 
in the Federal branch laws is supported by the opinion of the Attorney 
General of the United States that the word "branches", in the above-
quoted provision of section 5155(b), could not be construed to include 
a principal office of a consolidating bank, so as to permit its con-
tinued operation as a branch of the resulting bank. 36 Op. Atty. Gen 
344 (1930) 
For these reasons, the Board is not prepared to controvert 
the Comptroller's decision, in 1940, that the applicable statutes did 
not permit operation of these four offices by Michigan National Bank. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Win. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Win. McC. Martin, Jr. 

cow'' • 
B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 2 
1/22/68 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P D N O E N C E 
TO THE 
B O A R D 
January 25, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 18, 1968, 
concerning the application of The Bank of Montpelier, Montpelier, 
Indiana, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations has stated, on behalf of the Board of Governors, 
that there have been no corrective programs urged upon the bank, 
or agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, and 
there are no programs that the Director would advise be incorpor-
ated as conditions of admitting the bank to membership in the 
Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

* »«» ' > 
»w 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Item No. 3 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60M0 
(312) HA 7-2320 
1/22/68 
January 22, 1268 
Charles E. SUjgo, President 
Villa lark Trust & Savings Bank 
Villa Avenue & St. Charles Bead 
Villa Park, Illinois 60l8l 
Dear Mr. Stegei 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under dele< 
authority, this Bank grants an extension of thirty days from 
February 14, 1968, of the time in which your bank raay consummate 
oenbership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
Lei and Hoos 
Vice President 
C O P Y 
