Minutes for 
May 12, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1890 
i 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, May 12, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examina tions 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Gramley, Eckert, 
Bernard, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and Kelty of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Reynolds, Baker, 
Bryant, Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of the 
Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard reported on the Government 
t(OC - V ; 
securities market, including certain Desk transactions, Mr. Fry com-
mented on bank credit projections, and Mr. Ruckdeschel concluded with a 
review of the gold and foreign exchange markets, along with an analysis 
Euro-dollar rates in relation to liabilities of U.S. banks to their 

±891 
5/12/67 
-2-
foreign branches. Copies of the charts and tables used in connection 
with today's review have been placed in the files of the Board. 
Staff members of the research divisions then withdrew from the 
meeting and Messrs. Hackley, General Counsel, and Egertson, Assistant 
Director, Division of Examinations, entered the room. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on May 8 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas on May 11, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items, copies of which are attached 
to these minutes under the respective numbers indicated, were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background material that had been 
made available to the Board: 
Item No. 
Letter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
1 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
approving the establishment of a branch at 
Roosevelt Boulevard and Goodnaw Street, 
Philadelphia, in place of a branch at 
Roosevelt Boulevard and Grant Avenue. 
Letter to Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
2 
Pennsylvania, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Fort Washington, 
Montgomery County. 
Letter to Commerce Trust Company, Kansas City, 
3 
Missouri, granting permission to declare three 
quarterly cash dividends during 1967. 

1892 
5/12/67 
-3-
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed pur-
chase of assets and assumption of liabilities of The Merchants & Farmers 
Bank, Owensville, Ohio, by Clermont National Bank, Milford, Ohio, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller, the conclusion 
be ing stated as follows: 
The proposed acquisition of The Merchants & Farmers 
Bank, Owensville, Ohio, by Clermont National Bank, Milford, 
would eliminate both existing and potential competition 
between the two banks and would increase the already high 
level of banking concentration in Clermont County. 
Such 
concentration is ameliorated to some extent by the nearness 
of offices of large Cincinnati banks to Clermont County. 
Overall, the proposed merger would have an adverse 
effect on competition. 
Meeting requested by Home Loan Bank Board. Governor Robertson 
reported a request from the Federal Home Loan Bank Board for an oppor-
tunity to meet with the members of the Board of Governors on Monday, 
May 22, at 3:00 p.m. to present the Bank Board's views on the problem 
°f ceiling interest rates. 
The meeting would be attended by the three 
members of the Bank Board and also by Messrs. Randall and Camp, who had 
an interest in the problem as directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Governor Robertson said he had made it clear that in his 
view the Board of Governors would not be prepared to reach a decision 
any specific proposals at such a meeting and could do no more than 
receive them for consideration. 
It was agreed that the proposed meeting would be arranged. 

5/12/67 
-4-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated May 11, 1967, 
recommending the establishment of an additional secretarial position 
in that Division. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointment 
Gertrude Virginia Marquess as Stenographer, Division of Personnel 
Administration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Adeline E. Belloni, from the position of Statistical Clerk in the 
Division of Data Processing to the position of Statistical Clerk in the 
Division of Research and Statistics, with no change in basic annual 
salary at the rate of $4,776, effective upon assuming her new duties. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Mary M. Brooks, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business May 13, 1967. 
Mary Ann Rose, Statistical Clerk-Typist, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business June 16, 1967. 
Transfer 

b o a r d 
o f 
g d v e r n d r s 
THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/12/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D O R E 8 B 
O r r i C l A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
I O A R O 
May 12, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment of a branch at the 
northwest corner of Roosevelt Boulevard and Goodnaw 
Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, by The First; 
Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia 
Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter, and provided 
further that branch operations conducted at the southeast 
corner of the intersection of Roosevelt Boulevard and 
Grant Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, are discontinued 
simultaneously with the establishment of the above branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the Board also 
had approved a six-month extension of the period allowed 
to establish the branch; and that if an extension should 
be requested, the procedure prescribed in the Board's 
letter of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1895 
B O A R D . O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
5/12/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 12, 1967 
•f 
Board of Directors, 
Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to June 10, 1968, the time within which 
Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, may 
establish a branch at 1250 Virginia Drive, Fort Washington 
Industrial Park, Fort Washington, Montgomery County, 
Pennsylvania. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
. Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1896 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
5/12/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E B P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 12, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Commerce Trust Company, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves, under the provisions of paragraph 6 of 
Section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 5199(b) 
of United States Revised Statutes, the declaration of 
.three quarterly dividends by Commerce Trust Company, 
Kansas City, Missouri, to be paid in 1967. Each of such 
quarterly dividends is not to exceed the net profits of 
Commerce Trust Company for such quarter. 
This letter does not authorize any future 
declaration of dividends that would require the Board's 
approval under the foregoing statutes. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke/ 
Assistant Secretary. 
