Minutes for 
A P r i l 7> 1 9 6 9 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1214 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 7, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard and Misses Ormsby and Wolcott of the 
Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Noble of the Legal Division 
Mr. Cleaver and Miss Wickstead of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton and Poundstone and Miss Greene of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
i 

1215 
4/7/69 
-5-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to American National Bank and Trust 
1 
Company of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 
approving the establishment of a branch 
in London, England. 
Letter to Republic National Bank of New York, 
2 
New York, New York, authorizing it to accept 
drafts or bills of exchange drawn for the 
purpose of furnishing dollar exchange. 
Memorandum from the Divisions of Research and 
3 
Statistics and International Finance regarding 
proposed changes in the weekly statement on 
member bank reserves and related items (H.4.1) 
that would affect the treatment of Federal 
Reserve holdings of foreign currencies. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
4 
with respect to the service of Bruce K. MacLaury 
with the Treasury Department as Deputy Under 
Secretary for Monetary Affairs. 
In connection with Item No. 2, Governor Brimmer called atten-
tion to the unsatisfactory performance of Republic National Bank under 
the guidelines of the foreign credit restraint program. While a 
cautionary note had been included in the letter approving the current 
request, it might be necessary at an early date to bring before the 
Board for consideration a separate letter to the bank stressing the 
need for better cooperation. 

4/7/69 
-3-
In discussion of Item No. 3, Governor Mitchell raised the 
question whether the weekly consolidated statement of condition of 
the Federal Reserve Banks (H.4.1(a)) should not be changed with respect 
to reporting of foreign currency holdings. The apparent reason for 
handling the reporting as at present was to prevent premature disclosure 
of foreign currency operations. However, this method of concealment 
had proven inadequate, as pointed up in a recent article prepared by 
a commercial bank, and the basic question was whether the attempt at 
concealment was indeed warranted. 
It was agreed that Mr. Axilrod would pursue the question with 
the Special Manager of the System Open Market Account, with the under-
standing that a memorandum setting forth the pros and cons of the matter 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
In connection with Item No. 4, it was understood that the 
question of what procedures should appropriately be followed when 
staff members of Federal Reserve Banks were made available for service 
with Government agencies would be studied by the Board's staff. This 
question had been raised by Governor Brimmer in light of the arrangement 
under which Vice President Andersen of the St. Louis Bank was currently 
serving part-time on the staff of the Council of Economic Advisers for 
a temporary period. 
Application of First at Orlando Corporation. A memorandum from 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated March 27, 1969, and 

1217 
4/7/69 
-5-
other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an 
application of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to 
acquire at least 80 per cent of the voting shares of St. Lucie County 
Bank, Fort Pierce, Florida. The recommendations were favorable. 
After comments by Mr. Lyon, the application was approved unani-
mously with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting 
this decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Governor Robertson commented in voting that he had some 
reservations because it seemed to him there was little support for 
the application from the point of view of public benefit. Governor 
Daane expressed agreement with Governor Robertson. 
Record of Board policy actions. There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated April 2, 1969, sub-
mitting draft entries for the record of Board policy actions for 1968 
in form proposed for inclusion in the Annual Report. The memorandum 
pointed out that customarily the entries had related to actions such 
as those taken on the discount rate, reserve requirements, margin 
requirements, amendments to the Board's regulations, and, more recently, 
the foreign credit restraint program. In addition, it was proposed to 
include in the 1968 Report an entry covering the Board's reinterpreta-
tion of the statutes relating to loan production offices and operations 
subsidiaries as well as an entry regarding the Board's decision not to 
provide an exemption from the margin regulations for loans made by 
banks to dealers to finance their market-making activities in convertible 

1218 
4/7/69 
-5-
bonds. Reference also would be made to the decision in December 1968 
against increasing reserve requirements effective in mid-January. 
Mr. Holland noted that Governor Maisel had suggested certain 
changes in the December 17, 1968, entry relating to the discount rate 
increase and the decision against changing reserve requirements, and 
copies of the proposed changes were distributed. After discussion, 
agreement was reached on language regarded as summarizing accurately 
the essence of the December 17 discussion. 
The entries were then approved unanimously for inclusion in 
the Annual Report with the understanding that any further suggestions 
for technical changes could be transmitted to Mr. Molony. 
The meeting adjourned following an executive session called 
by the Chairman. 
Secretary 
Hi-'. ••••v\ 
: 
. 
M 
r 

1219 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
4/7/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 7, 1969 
American National Bank and Trust Company 
of Chicago, 
La Salle at Washington, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to American National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in London, England, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before May 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby shall be 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in location 
of the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for 
purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the 
balance of payments, the above consent is given with the understanding 
that in the conduct of the branch's operations, maximum reliance will be 
placed on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now 
in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities 
of your bank and Chicago American International Corporation, and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD DF G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
4/7/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 7, 1969 
Republic National Bank of New York, 
Fifth Avenue at 40th Street, 
New York, New York. 10018 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
authorizes your bank to accept drafts or bills of exchange drawn 
for the purpose of furnishing dollar exchange as required by the 
usages of trade in such countries, dependencies, or insular pos-
sessions of the United States as may have been designated by the 
Board of Governors, subject to the provisions of Section 13 of the 
Federal Reserve Act and the Board1s Regulation C. 
Enclosed is a list of the countries with respect to which 
the Board of Governors has found that the usages of trade require 
the furnishing of dollar exchange. 
The Board has noted that Republic National Bank of New 
York has consistently been over its foreign asset position regarded 
as appropriate for the bank under the foreign credit restraint pro-
gram. However, it is understood from the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York that as of March 24, 1969, the bank had reduced its foreign 
assets outstanding to an amount within its ceiling. The foregoing 
authorization has been given with the understanding that the foreign 
loans and investments of your bank will remain within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your bank and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. Your attention is also directed to the fact that 
dollar exchange acceptance financing does not represent export credit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

1221 
Countries Approved by the Board 
with Respect to Dollar Exchange Acceptances— 
/ 
"The Board has designated the following as countries 
whose usages of trade require the furnishing of dollar exchange, 
so that member banks may accept drafts drawn upon them by banks 
or bankers in such countries: 
Australia, New Zealand, and other^/ Australasian 
dependencies; Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, British 
Guiana 1/, British Honduras, Chile, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Dutch East Indies j*/9 Dutch Guianal/, Ecuador, 
French Guiana, French West Indies, Guatemala, 
Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto 
Rico, Salvador 6/, Santo Domingo!/, Trinidad§/, 
Uruguay and Venezuela." 
1/ Source: Interpretations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System (as of January lt 1961), p. 80. 
2/ Now delete "other." 
3/ Now Guyana. 
4/ Now the Republic of Indonesia. 
5/ 
Now Surinam. 
6/ Now El Salvador. 
_7/ Now the Dominican Republic. 
8/ Now Trinidad and Tobago. 

Item No. 
2 
4/7/69 
March 24, 1969 
TO: 
Board of Governors 
SUBJECT: Change in weekly state-
ment on "Member Bank Reserves and 
FROM: Divisions of Research and 
Related Items". 
Statistics and International 
Finance (S.H. Axilrod and 
R. Gemmill) 
We are proposing to make a change on the H.4.1 release that would 
affect the location of Federal Reserve holdings of foreign currencies. This 
release shows daily average figures for member bank reserves and related 
items. Heretofore the release has contained an item "Other Federal Reserve 
accounts (net)", which comprises various liabilities and assets, including 
among the assets, Federal Reserve holdings of foreign currencies. These 
items are shown as a net use of reserves; thus an increase in Federal hold-
ings of foreign currencies, which is, of course, a source of reserves, has 
often been large enough to cause the item to be shown with a negative sign, 
as a negative use. This introduces an unnecessary awkwardness--as confusing 
"double negative"--into the statement. The proposal is to put Federal 
Reserve holdings of foreign currencies together with other miscellaneous 
assets, such as bank premises, on the asset side as an item called "Other 
assets". On the liability side, there would be an item "Other liabilities". 
This treatment of the daily average figures would be consistent 
with the treatment in the consolidated statement of condition of Federal 
Reserve Banks, which is published simultaneously with data as of Wednesday. 
T h e proposal has been advanced by Mr. Waage of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, and has been checked by our International Division with the New 
York Fed Foreign Department. 
If the Board approves of this change, we will attempt to make it 
effective in the next release. The new presentation will require slightly 
different daily reporting from the Reserve Banks. 

IO O Q 
>o<vu 
2*. 
I-' 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
4/7/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 7, 1969 
Mr. Chester B. Feldberg, Secretary, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Feldberg: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 28, 1969, 
regarding Mr. Bruce K. MacLaury, Vice President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. 
The Board of Governors agrees that Mr. MacLaury's 
service as Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury for Monetary 
Affairs, beginning April 1, 1969, is for a purpose deemed in 
the public interest within the meaning of Section 5A of the 
Rules and Regulations of the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, the resolutions adopted and approved under such 
Section, and the Board's letter of August 4, 1961 (S-1802). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
