MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 20, 1970 

2 1 5 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 20, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Morgan, Miss Ormsby, and Mrs. Byrn of 
the Office of the Secretary 
Economic review. Staff presented a review of domestic and 
international economic and financial developments of the kind custom-
arily offered prior to meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
The comments were based in part on documentation that had been dis-
tributed for the purpose of tomorrow's Committee meeting; copies of 
such documents have been placed in the files of the Committee. Also, 
copies of today's briefings and the related statistical materials 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
.1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

7/20/70 
-2-
During the discussion that followed the staff briefings, 
members of the Board suggested augmentation of some of the tables 
and charts, and it was understood that those suggestions would be 
implemented by the staff. 
Members of the staff who had attended for the purpose of the 
economic review then withdrew. Directors of divisions of the staff 
who had not been present earlier entered the room at this time, 
along with supporting staff interested in one or more of the topics 
listed on the agenda. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on July 13 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on July 16, 1970, 
of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules 
w a s approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate 
advice would be sent to those Banks. 
••llJf.i • ; i 7 . 
.iii'.ls 
' 
. i y 
... .'. „ M V !.• i i t 
- 
>. . 
» .' . 
• 
Foreign banking matters. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, 
New York, relating to certain direct or indirect investments in 
Uruguay and Argentina. A copy of the letter is attached as Item 
No. 1. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to Bamerical 
International Financial Corporation, San Francisco, California, re-
lating to a proposed investment in a finance company being formed 
in the Netherlands. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 

i^JLi jf) 
7/20/70 
-3-
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to Philadelphia 
International Investment Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
relating to the proposed organization of a subsidiary that would 
engage in leasing revenue-producing capital equipment. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Holding company application. Unanimous approval was given 
to an application by Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for permission to acquire shares of The First 
National Bank of the City of Superior, Superior, Wisconsin, and the 
issuance of an order reflecting the decision was authorized. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
Truth in lending. The application of the State of 
Connecticut for exemption of certain State-regulated transactions 
from the requirements of Chapter 2 of the Truth in Lending Act was 
approved unanimously, effective August 1, 1970. 
The action took the form of an amendment to Supplement III 
to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending; a copy of the implementing docu-
ment, as published in the Federal Register, is attached as Item No. 5. 
In response to a question, Governor Robertson stated that 
guidelines were being worked out that would be used in checking on 
enforcement by States granted exemptions under the Truth in Lending 
Act. 
Assistance under Small Business Investment Act. The Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco had reported, with a request for the 

2160 
7/20/70 
-4-
Board's views, a request from the United Inner City Development 
Foundation, Seattle, Washington, for substantial assistance, under 
the provisions of the Small Business Investment Act, to a minority 
enterprise small business investment company. 
After discussion of the pertinent provisions of the Act, 
during which reference was made to certain requests for assistance 
that had been received shortly after those provisions were incorpo-
rated into the Act in 1958, unanimous approval was given to a reply 
to the Reserve Bank that would suggest consultation with the Founda-
tion to ascertain the requirements of the investment company and 
clarify possible misunderstandings, and would ask the Reserve Bank 
to keep the Board informed of developments. It was the view of the 
Board that such exploration should be undertaken and the results 
studied before consideration was given to the possible development 
of System guidelines that might be used in responding to future re-
quests of this kind. A copy of the letter sent to the San Francisco 
Bank is attached as Item No. 6. 
Steering Committee on the Payments Mechanism. The appointment 
of Mr. Baughman, First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago, as a member of the System Steering Committee on Improving 
the Payments Mechanism to succeed former President Scanlon was 
approved unanimously. 
Mid-year budget review. The members of the Board were in 
receipt of documentation from the Office of the Controller reviewing 

Ztiil 
7/20/70 
-5-
performance under the Board's budget for the first half of 1970. 
Copies of this material have been placed in the Board's files. 
During the course of comments on the matter, Governor 
Sherrill noted that although personnel expenditures were under the 
budget for the first half of the year, mainly because of unfilled 
positions, they were forecast to exceed the budget for the year as 
a whole. The projected overexpenditure was explained by the general 
pay increase and plans of the divisions to fill present vacancies. 
These comments led to discussion of difficulties encountered 
in recruiting professional personnel of the caliber desired in cer-
tain areas, and several suggestions were made regarding recruiting 
techniques that might be helpful. It was also suggested that in the 
future the staff, in making presentations to the Board, should dis-
tinguish more clearly between full-time positions provided for in 
the budget and summer or part-time positions. 
Governor Sherrill then drew attention to the extent to which 
it had been necessary to divert staff resources from longer-range 
projects to meet current needs. He indicated that a greater effort 
would be made to appraise future requirements and to provide more 
lead time in recruiting. 
It was noted that the budget appeared to make no specific 
provision for the allocation of resources to contingency planning, 
and it was suggested that this be provided for on a continuing basis. 

7/20/70 
-6-
Schedule of meetings. The Secretary noted that it was 
planned to have a joint meeting of the Board and Reserve Bank 
Presidents at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow for the purpose of informing the 
Presidents, on a confidential basis, with regard to the progress of 
contingency planning for emergency lending by the Federal Reserve. 
He reviewed the nature of the documentation that would be made avail-
able to the Presidents. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had prepared a memorandum 
suggesting an alternative plan for direct Federal Reserve lending to 
businesses and individuals. It was understood that this memorandum, 
along with a legal analysis by Mr. Hackley, would be distributed to 
the Board members. 
The Secretary also noted that it was planned to hold a Board 
meeting tomorrow afternoon to review a draft of the statement that 
would be presented by Chairman Burns in forthcoming Congressional 
testimony. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew. 
Committee on Travel. Chairman Burns stated that in light of 
his own recent travel experience and that of other top System officials, 
he felt it would be desirable to have a thoughtful review and clarifi-
cation of travel policy with respect to Board members and Federal 
Reserve Bank Presidents. Among other matters, he was concerned with 
possibly disproportionate distribution of visits by Board members to 

2163 
7/20/70 
-7-
the Reserve Banks and also to foreign central banks. Other questions 
deserving attention were the possible need to strengthen Federal 
Reserve representation at international financial meetings, with 
better coordination of Board and Reserve Bank delegations at such 
meetings, and to provide for more evaluative reporting of trips. 
With these aims in mind, Chairman Burns indicated that he 
would like to appoint a three-man committee, consisting of Governor 
Daane as Chairman, and Governors Brimmer and Sherrill, which would 
have responsibility for (a) defining objectives of travel by Board 
members and Reserve Bank Presidents, with a view to maximizing the 
attendant benefits to the System, and (b) bringing about better 
coordination of individual travel plans, but (c) so conducting its 
activities as not to infringe upon the freedom of individual Board 
members. 
In response to the Chairman's request for reactions, Board 
members indicated that they were agreeable to the appointment of 
such a committee. In the accompanying discussion, varying views 
were expressed as to the likely value of the committee and the dif-
ficulties the committee members would face in articulating and 
implementing an appropriate travel policy. It was agreed that the 
committee's judgment as to any particular trip would not be binding, 
but could be conveyed to the Board member involved and taken into 
account by him in making his travel decisions. 

7/20/70 
-8-
Thereupon, Chairman Burns appointed the abovementioned Board 
members to serve as the Committee on Travel and indicated that they 
could report to the Board on the results of their deliberations when-
ever they were ready to do so. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
(Secretary's Note: On July 16, 1970, the Secretary advised 
the Vice Chairman that Governors Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill 
had expressed their approval of a proposal the Vice Chairman had 
received from Chairman Higdon of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
that Robert P. Mayo be appointed President of that Bank, with annual 
salary at the rate of $60,000 and subject to procedures for the dis-
position of Mr. Mayo's financial interests in accordance with 
Governor Robertson's letter to Mr. Mayo of July 14, 19 70. Governor 
Robertson approved of the proposal and had obtained the approval of 
Chairman Burns. 
In a letter also dated July 16, addressed to Governor 
Robertson, Chairman Higdon advised that the Chicago Bank's Board of 
Directors had acted, subject to the approval of the Board of Governors, 
to appoint Mr. Mayo as President, effective July 29, 1970, for the 
unexpired portion of the five-year term ending February 28, 1971, with 
annual salary at the rate of $60,000 for the period July 29 through 
December 31, 1970. 

2165 
7/20/70 
-9-
Approval of the Board of Governors was evidenced in a reply 
to Chairman Higdon dated July 22, 1970, a copy of which is attached 
as Item No. 7.) 

2X66 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 1 
7/20/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C O R R E S P O N D S ' 
TO THE BOARD 
July 20, 1970 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 8, 1970, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your wholly-owned subsidiary, Chase 
Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation ("CMOBC"), to purchase and 
hold, either directly or indirectly, up to 75 per cent of the shares 
of Diners Club Uruguay ("DCU"), Montevideo, Uruguay, at a cost of 
approximately $15,000, provided such shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
The Board also grants consent for your bank to continue 
to hold indirectly the shares of Banco Argenti.no de Comercio ("Banco") , 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, and CMOBC to continue to hold the shares 
of a finance company being formed in Argentina, after either company 
acquires up to 7 5 per cent of the shares of Diners Club Argentina 
("DCA"), Buenos Aires, Argentina, at a cost of approximately $1,585,000, 
provided the shares of DCA are acquired within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of DCU and DCA is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of DCU and DCA if they at any 
time fail to restrict their activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if DCU or DCA establish 
any brandies or agencies or take any action or under-
take any operation in Uruguay or Venezuela or else-
where, in any manner, which at the time woula not be 
permissible to CMOBC; 

The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association) 
-2-
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of DCU and DCA as it may require from 
time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by DCU 
and DCA be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Reg-
ulation K in the same manner as if they were cor-
porations organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That CMOBC shall not carry the shares of DCU and 
DCA, directly or indirectly, at a net amount in excess 
of the proportionate share of the book capital 
accounts of DCU and DCA after giving effect to the 
elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by DCU in Uruguay in 
the currency of that country and by DCA in Argentina in the currency 
°f that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisitions, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Asso-
ciation, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of DCU and DCA. 
The Board of Governors also amends its letter of 
September 24, 1968, which granted consent for the acquisition 
directly or indirectly of 80 per cent of the shares of Banco and 
100 per cent of the shares of the Argentine finance company, to 
Provide for a total expenditure of approximately $9,860,000 instead 
$7,750,000. 
The foregoing consents are given with the understanding 
that the investments now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
How in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of CMB and its subsidiaries and that due consideration 
1 3 being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

t i i f c . 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 1 
7/20/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C D P R E S P D 
TU THE HOARD 
July 20, 1970 
Bamerical International. Financial Corporation, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94104 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 16, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants permission for your Corporation ("BIFC") to 
purchase and hold up to 50 per cent of the shares of Ameribas 
Netherland N.V. ("Ameribas"), Amsterdam, Netherlands, at a cost of 
approximately $138,000, provided such shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Ameribas by BIFC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: * 
(1) That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Ameribas if Ameribas at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Gov-
ernors, purchase and hold stock, or if Ameribas 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any ac-
tion or undertakes any operation in the Netherlands 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to BIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Ameribas as it may require from 
time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Ameribas be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Ameribas were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 

2 1 ( i 9 
Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation 
-2 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by Ameribas in the Nether-
lands in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, Memo-
randum of Association, and By-Laws of Ameribas. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association and its sub-
sidiaries, and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
ties contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2170 
Item No. 1 
7/20/70 
AD3REUS UFFILMAI. CDRRESP2NDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 20, 1970 
Philadelphia International 
Investment Corporation, 
P. 0. Box 7618, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 4, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("PIIC") to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of Philadelphia International 
Leasing Corporation ("PILC"), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at a cost 
of approximately $100,000, provided such shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent t:o the proposed purchase and holding 
of the shares of PILC by PIIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That PIIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of PILC if TILC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if PILC establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion, in any manner, which at the time would not be 
permissible to PIIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, PIIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of PILC as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by PILC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if PILC were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTE 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 

2171 
Philadelphia International 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(4) That PILC will confine its leasing activities essen-
tially to the leasing of property under leases under 
which PILC will recover the full costs of acquisition 
and any other expenses expected to be incurred by 
PILC during the lease, and that PILC shall not ac-
quire property for leasing before the prospective 
lessee has executed the lease agreement. 
When the proposed acquisition is made, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Re-
serve Bank of Philadelphia, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of PILC. 
The proposed investment in PILC, a domestically-chartered 
company, is not applicable under the foreign credit restraint pro-
gram now in effect. However, any foreign assets of PILC should be 
consolidated with the foreign assets of PIIC for purposes of the 
guidelines as amended May 13, 1970, unless they are financed in 
accordance with Section II-D-5 of those guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Z17Z 
Item No. 
1 
7/20/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C, 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK 
1 
CORPORATION, 
1 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
The First National Bank of the City 
1 
of Superior, Superior, Wisconsin 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of the Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The First National 
Bank of the City of Superior, Superior, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 

2173 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
recommended approval of the application 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 5, 1970 (35 Federal Register 8771), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction* A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration, The time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factora set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such consideration, 
the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest bank holding company and 
third largest banking organization in Wisconsin, has 11 subsidiary 
banks with aggregate deposits of $543 million, representing 6,2 per cent 
of the total commercial bank deposits in the State, (All banking data 
are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect bank holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date,) Upon 
acquisition of Bank ($15 million deposits), Applicant would become 
the second largest bank holding company and second largest banking 
organization in the State, controlling 6,4 per cent of commercial 
bank deposits in Wisconsin, 

2174 
- 3 -
Bank is the second largest bank in Superior; is the sixth 
largest of sixteen banks in the Greater Superior-Duluth area, the 
relevant market; and holds 4.5 per cent of that market's deposits. The 
market is dominated by two large Duluth banks, each of which controls 
in excess of $100 million in deposits. Applicant's closest subsidiary 
is located 275 miles southeast of Bank, and neither it nor any other 
of Applicant's present subsidiaries compete with Bank to a significant 
extent. Applicant's entry into the market should promote competition 
with the two banks that dominate the market. It does not appear that 
existing competition would be eliminated, or significant potential 
competition foreclosed, by consummation of Applicant's proposal, or 
that there would be undue adverse effects on any bank in the area 
involved. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition 
in any relevant area. Considerations relating to financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects are regarded as consistent 
with approval of the application as they relate to Applicant and its 
subsidiaries, and lend some weight in favor of approval as they relate 
to Bank, since affiliation with Applicant will assist in fulfilling the 
Present and future management needs of Bank. Considerations relating to 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend addi-
tional weight in support of approval, in that Bank, drawing on Applicant's 
resources, would be able to provide international banking services and 

2175 
•4-
to expand its trust department. It is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth above, that 
aaid application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition 
so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 20, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Kenneth A„ Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

217G 
Item No. 1 
7/20/70 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Reg. Z 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
Exemption of Certain State Regulated Transactions 
ic Effective August 1, 197C, Supplement III to Regulation Z 
Section 226.12--Supplement) is amended by adding paragraph (e) as 
Allows: 
( e) Connecticut:: Except as provided in fi 226.12(c), all classes 
credit transactions within the State of Connecticut are hereby granted 
Qn exemption from the requirements of Chapter 2 of the Truth in Lending 
effective August 1, 1970, with the following exceptions: 
(1) Transactions in which a federally chartered institution 
3 a creditor; 
(2) Consumer credit sales of insurance by an insurer; 
(3) Transactions under common carrier tariffs in which the 
: f VJ 
c^£ges for the services involved, the charge for delayed and any discount 
flowed for early payment are regulated by a subdivision or agency of 
G United States or the State of Connecticut. 

217 7 
- 2 -
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to exempt certain credit 
transactions in the State of Connecticut from the requirements of 
Chapter 2 of the Truth in Lending Act (Title I of the Consumer Credit 
Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1601ff)). 
b„ Pursuant to the provisions of 12 CFR 226.12 (Supplement II 
to Part 226 (Regulation Z)), the State of Connecticut applied to the 
for an exemption from the Truth in Lending Act; notice of receipt 
the application was published in the Federal Register of February 6, 
(35 F.R. 2093), The Board granted this exemption after consideration 
all relevant material, including communications from interested persons. 
n e effective date of the exemption was deferred for less than the 30-day 
Period referred to in section 553(d) of title 5, United States Code. 
Tl e ftoard found that the amendment essentially involves no change in 
Q Substantive rule and deferral of the date beyond that adopted by the 
B ard would serve no useful purpose. 
i,,f. 
, 
> , • • 
• . ; • 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 20 , 1970. 
(SEAL) 
( signeel) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

..-o^cov^. 
ttJffOi:! = •• 
C • 
Mfff* 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
2178 
Item No. 1 
7/20/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 30, 1970 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
This is in response to your letter of May 28, 1970, 
regarding a request from United Inner City Development Foundation, 
Seattle, Washington (UICDF), for assistance under the provisions 
of the Small Business Investment Act. The Reserve Bank has been 
asked to provide two "experienced collateral loan officers" to 
assist the staff of a minority enterprise small business investment 
company (MESBIC) on a full-time basis, and to act as a depository 
or fiscal agent for the company. A survey of the other Reserve 
Banks indicates that no Reserve Bank has provided comparable 
assistance under the Act. 
The Small Business Investment Act provides, in part, 
that "Each small business investment company may make use, wherever 
practicable, of the advisory services of the Federal Reserve System 
and of the Department of Commerce which are available for and useful 
to industrial and commercial businesses...." It also provides that 
"Any Federal Reserve Bank is authorized to act as a depository or 
fiscal agent for any company operating under the provisions of the 
Act." 
While the Board feels that the rendering of consulting 
and advisory services to MESBIC's would be appropriate to the extent 
that suitable personnel are available, it believes the request of 
UICDF covers somewhat broader services than might be implied under 
the Act. In the circumstances, it is suggested that a representative 
from the head office of the Reserve Bank might visit with UICDF in 
Seattle to consider the needs of that organization and how the Reserve 
Bank might most appropriately be of assistance within the limitation 
imposed by the availability of experienced Reserve Bank personnel. 

2179 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan 
-2-
After such consultation with UICDF, appropriate counseling assistance 
could be furnished to an extent consistent with the consultants' 
performance of duties otherwise assigned. 
With respect to the Reserve Bank acting as a depository or 
fiscal agent for the MESBIC, since Reserve Banks generally perform 
such services only for banks and U.S. Government agencies, it would 
seem more appropriate, for commercial banks to provide such services 
here, and for the Reserve Bank to provide them only if they were not 
available from usual commercial bank sources. It would seem that 
either The Liberty Bank of Seattle, the proposed custodian of the 
cash and securities of the MESBIC, or one of Liberty Bank's corre-
spondent banks might appropriately be designated as the depository 
or fiscal agent. 
The Board would appreciate being advised of developments 
in this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

£180 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M ' 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F TH E 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 7 
7/20/70 
July 22, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Emerson G. Higdon, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
P. 0. Box 834, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Higdon: 
The Board of Governors has approved the appointment of 
Mr. Robert P. Mayo as President of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago, effective July 29, 1970, for the unexpired portion of the 
five-year term ending February 28, 1971. 
The Board of Governors has also approved the payment of 
salary to Mr. Mayo for the period July 29 through December 31, 1970. 
at the annual rate of $60,000 as established by your Board of 
Direc tors. 
Sincerely 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
