MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 18, 1971 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 
1 Reduction in discount rate. 

11? 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, January 18, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
11:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Discount rate. The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Dallas had acted, 
subj 
ect to review and determination by the Board of Governors, to 
establish the following rates: 
5 per cent on advances and discounts 
t o member banks pursuant to sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve 
Act; 5-1/2 per cent on advances to member banks under section 10(b) of 
the Act; and 7 per cent on advances to individuals, partnerships, and 
corporations other than member banks under the last paragraph of 
Section 13 of the Act. 
It was reported that the directors of the Atlanta 
Bank probably would act today to establish those same rates. 

121 
1/18/71 
-2-
The Board was advised that several major commercial banks had 
now announced a cut in their prime lending rate to 6 per cent. 
The Chairman stated that over the weekend he had talked with 
the President of the New York Reserve Bank, who did not appear to be 
opposed to a discount rate cut from 5-1/4 per cent to 5 per cent, but 
had not yet made up his mind what he would recommend to the directors 
of the Bank at their meeting this Thursday. 
It was reported by the staff that at the opening of the market 
this morning the three-month Treasury bill rate stood at 4-1/4 per cent. 
Question was raised as to the view of the Manager of the System 
Open Market Account concerning market reaction to a reduction of the 
discount rate to 5 per cent. 
It was reported that as of last Thursday 
the Manager felt that a cut in the prime rate had been fairly well 
discounted in the market. The Manager had felt also that if a. cut 
Were to be made in the discount rate, action today probably would be 
appropriate in terms of timing. 
That would not be too close to the 
forthcoming Treasury financing, and it would afford an opportunity for 
news of a bank prime rate cut to settle. 
It was suggested that a further check be made with the Manager 
this morning, and Mr. Axilrod left the room for that purpose. 
Several Board members then indicated that they would be prepared 
to approve a reduction in the discount rate to 5 per cent at this time, 
minimal announcement. 
They were influenced by the announcement 
< 

121 
1/18/71 
-3-
of the cut in the prime rate and by the trend in short-term market 
interest rates. 
Those rates had in fact fallen to such an extent that 
there was some discussion whether a reduction of more than one-quarter 
°f a point in the discount rate would be warranted. 
However, it was 
the conclusion that such a move would not be advisable. 
Reference was 
wade to the possible international reaction to a discount rate announce-
ment, to the relatively short period that had elapsed since the previous 
discount rate reduction, and to the recent practice of making smaller 
and more frequent discount rate adjustments, which it was noted normally 
might be expected to involve some lag in keeping the discount rate in 
alignment with market rates when the latter were changing rapidly. 
finally, it was pointed out that the scheme of System operations for 
adj 
usting the discount rate was not geared to fine tuning of that rate 
to the market, at least as long as the directors of twelve Reserve 
Banks were involved in the process. 
There followed discussion of a suggestion that the staff be 
requested to draft a statement, for Board consideration, attempting to 
clarify and to spell out the implications of a policy under which dis-
count rate adjustments would be made frequently and modestly in order 
t o maintain the discount rate in relatively close relationship to 
market rates. 
In an effort to summarize the assignment to the staff 
the preparation of such a paper, the Chairman suggested that the 
following questions, among others, might be considered: 
What is the 

5? 
1/18/71 
-4-
"new" policy? How has it been implemented thus far, and how should it 
be implemented? 
If some degree of elasticity should be recognized, 
can that be defined up to a point? 
Should the role of the Reserve 
Bank directors be greater or less significant, and would that be good 
or bad, from the standpoint of reaching the best possible decisions in 
the national interest and from the standpoint of the efficiency of 
System operations? 
It was noted that a Subcommittee of the Conference of Presidents 
°f the Federal Reserve Banks had received an assignment to prepare a 
P^per dealing with questions of this general character, that a draft 
°f Subcommittee report had been returned by a Conference Committee 
with a request for more concrete proposals, and that a final report 
W a s expected fairly soon. The suggestion was made that the Board's 
staff might wait for that report and react to it in fulfilling the 
assignment from the Board. 
Upon returning to the room following a conversation with the 
Account Manager, Mr. Axilrod reported that Mr. Holmes believed that a 
discount rate reduction to 5 per cent would be interpreted as a sane-
boning of the recent declines in short-term market interest rates, 
with no strong market repercussions. 
Mr. Holmes felt that a larger 
Eduction would be regarded as an indication that the Federal Reserve 
Wanted market interest rates to move further. 

121 
1/18/71 
-5-
Thereupon, the Board approved unanimously, effective January 19, 
1971, the following rates for the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Dallas and for any other 
Reserve Bank whose directors acted today to establish such rates: 
5 
A* -
Per cent on advances and discounts to member banks under sections 13 
and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act; 5-1/2 per cent on advances to member 
banks under section 10(b) of the Act; and 7 per cent on advances to 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than member banks 
under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act. 
(Note: Advice was received during the day that the directors 
o f the Atlanta Bank had established the same rates.) 
The release of a press statement this afternoon in the form 
attached as Item No. 1 was approved. 
The Secretary was authorized to advise other Reserve Banks 
whose directors acted after today to establish the rates on advances 
and di scounts approved by the Board today of the approval of such 
action. 
(Note: 
Pursuant to this authorization, the Secretary advised 
Reserve Banks of the approval of such rates as follows: 
Chicago, 
effective January 21, 1971; New York and San Francisco, effective 
J anuary 22, 1971; and Richmond, St. Louis, and Kansas City, effective 
January 29, 1971.) 

1/18/71 
-6-
Discount study. 
It was understood that there would be made 
available to the members of the Board copies of a memorandum that 
Tor 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board, had prepared for Chairman Burns 
under date of August 7, 1970, concerning possible Congressional reac-
tions to implementation of the proposal for a redesigned discount 
window resulting from the System discount study. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
1/18/71 
For immediate release 
January 18, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
approved actions by the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis and Dallas 
I
nducing the discount rate of those banks from 5-1/4 to 5 per cent, 
effective Tuesday, January 19. 
The change gave recognition to the further declines that 
have taken place in short-term market interest rates. 
The discount 
*"ate is the rate charged member banks on borrowings from their 
^strict Federal Reserve banks. 
-0-
* 
< 
