MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 14, 1968 

1041 
} 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 14, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, 
* 
' 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
I T 
Attended afternoon session only; withdrew from and returned to 
m
eeting at points indicated in minutes. 

1042 
3/14/68 
-25-
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary-
Messrs. Doyle and Porter of the 
Legal Division 
The following letters were approved unanimously after considera-
tion of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
i'o r 
Copies are attached under the respective item numbers indicated: 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
1 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, 
granting permission to purchase shares of Banco 
del Este S.A., Montevideo, Uruguay. 
Letter to the Department of Justice granting its 
2 
request for access to information in the Board's 
files relating to Columbia Bank, Tampa, Florida. 
International joint ventures. Pursuant to the request of the 
Board at the meeting on March 1, 1968, there had been distributed a 
Memorandum dated March 13 from the Legal Division bearing upon the 
Possible issuance of a statement indicating that in considering appli-
cations for international ventures in which more than one bank would 
have an interest, the Board would take into account the possible compet-
itive effects thereof on United States domestic and foreign commerce and 
consult with the Department of Justice regarding any antitrust issues. 
The Board had recently approved two such applications after 
consultation with the Department regarding the possible applicability 
°f antitrust laws, and the Department had requested that the Board con-
tinue to apprise it of applications by banks to form joint Edge Act 

1043 
3/14/68 
-25-
subsidiaries. The memorandum brought out that both the Sherman and the 
Clayton Acts expressly applied to commerce "with foreign nations," which 
clearly seemed to include foreign capital investment and other financing 
activities that might have substantial effects on the domestic or 
foreign commerce of the United States. 
Certain statutory exemptions, which the Legal Division did not 
beli eve were pertinent to joint venture proposals, were noted in the 
memorandum, one of which was the temporary antitrust exemption enacted 
in 1965 for voluntary programs or agreements of banks and certain other 
financial institutions designed to benefit the U.S. balance of payments 
Position. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of press release that 
would state, for the benefit of applicants, the policy the Board expected 
to follow regarding joint ventures in foreign banking and financing 
activities. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the Legal Division's view with 
r e
8ard to the 1965 exemption and asked if the matter was free from 
question. 
Mr. Shay commented that since the exemption had been provided to 
assure individual institutions that their participation in the President's 
balance of payments program would not have repercussions from the anti-
trust standpoint, it seemed clearly distinguishable from corporate 
activities undertaken by combinations of individual institutions. He 

1044 
3/14/68 
-4-
felt certain that the Department of Justice would construe the exemption 
in a limited way. 
Governor Brimmer then said that he thought the policy statement 
should be published, but that he reserved his right to an opinion dif-
ferent from that held by Mr. Shay, especially since he had participated 
in the effort to obtain the antitrust exemption for organizations that 
Participated in the foreign credit restraint effort. 
Mr. Sammons raised a question whether the term "joint ventures" 
would apply only to a combination of United States nationals or also to 
a
n institution in the United States joining with a foreign institution. 
Governor Robertson replied that the latter situation would also 
°e covered, and there ensued a discussion of possible domestic-foreign 
combinations and their significance in terms of competitive effects. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that it would be well to 
clarify situations that would fall under the policy statement. His own 
understanding, in summary, was that if two or more U.S. entities became 
Joint venturers in a foreign enterprise, there might be some adverse 
effect on domestic competition that should be considered. However, if 
°ne or more foreign institutions joined with one United States institu-
tion in operations abroad, there presumably would not be any adverse 
effect on competition in the United States unless one of the foreign 
e
ntities also operated in this country. If the coverage of the policy 
s t a t
e m e n t went beyond the outline he had stated, he saw no way to set 
bounds. 

1045 
3/14/68 
-25-
Goverrior Robertson observed that the purpose of the statement 
was merely to put the public on notice that competitive aspects of joint 
venture applications would be given appropriate consideration. Its terms 
were sufficiently broad to accomplish that purpose, yet leave the Board 
free to draw the line wherever it wished in particular circumstances. 
Governor Brimmer then called attention to the passage in the 
statement that would require applicants to "submit all relevant material 
relating to such competitive effect and to existing and potential compe-
tition among the proposed joint venturers." He did not believe such a 
requirement should be made, because a U.S. institution probably would 
not be able to provide the relevant information. 
Mr. Shay observed that it was for the Department of Justice to 
decide whether the antitrust laws should be brought to bear in any 
Particular case. Therefore, he could not tell where the ultimate bound-
a r
y of applicability might be or define the situations that might require 
e x
ploration under the antitrust laws. He believed the proposed statement 
need not imply any such definition; it was merely a warning that the com-
petitive effects of any application would be considered and that the 
department of Justice would be consulted on antitrust aspects. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that his point might be met if the 
statement specified that the requirement would apply to any proposal 
by 
a
 U.S. institution for a joint undertaking with a foreign partner 
t h
a t had activity in the United States. 

3/14/68 
-6-
Governor Maisel said he would prefer to leave the statement in 
its present terms and then change it if problems arose that indicated 
a need to do so. 
Governor Brimmer, however, expressed the view that the Board 
would be put in a poor light if it put the burden on applicants to find 
out what information they must provide, and in any event the requirement 
was one that some applicants probably could not meet. 
During further discussion the suggestion was made that the last 
sentence of the statement be changed to read: "Applicants shall submit 
all relevant material relating thereto." There was general acceptance 
°f this change, although Governor Brimmer expressed the opinion that 
a
pplicants would not know what specific information was required. He 
a
lso said that he objected to publishing the statement on the ground 
that it did not meet the basic issue, which he regarded as the question 
how far the coverage of the policy would extend. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, issuance of the statement 
W a s
 approved. Governor Brimmer's reservations being noted. A copy of 
the press release issued pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 3. 
Gold reserves against Federal Reserve notes. On January 19, 1968, 
the Board had discussed recommendations made by the staff in a memorandum 
dated January 16 regarding problems that might arise in connection with 
the statutory gold reserve requirements against Federal Reserve notes. 
The recommendations, in summary, were as follows: 

1047 
3/14/68 
-25-
1. To change computation of reserve requirements from a 
daily to a weekly basis. 
2. To adopt conservative procedures for rounding figures 
to avoid questionable adjustments in reserve ratios 
and in additions to the discount rate. 
3. To continue the existing policy of leveling the reserve 
ratios of all Reserve Banks, rather than to change to a 
procedure that would concentrate deficiencies in one or 
two Reserve Banks. 
4. To submit to the Federal Open Market Committee a pro-
posal calling for daily reallocations of gold holdings 
as of the previous day, in lieu of the present monthly 
reallocation. 
5. To take appropriate steps to put into effect an arrange-
ment under which all Interdistrict Settlement Fund 
transactions would be settled through security holdings, 
rather than through gold holdings as heretofore. 
6. To suspend reserve requirements when there is a deficiency 
in required reserves, but not before a deficiency occurs. 
7. To change the tax rate when the reserve ratio is between 
25 and 20 per cent from 1/2 of 1 per cent to 1/10 of 1 
per cent, and to leave at the minimums required by law 
the tax rates when the reserve ratio is below 20 per cent. 
8. To request the directors of each Reserve Bank to adopt 
a standing resolution authorizing appropriate additions 
to the discount rate in the event of reserve deficiencies. 
9. To determine such mandatory additions to the discount 
rate on the basis of an "effective tax rate" computed 
by dividing the total tax by the total deficiency. 
10. To make any increase in the discount rate required 
because of a reserve deficiency effective on the first 
day of the period following that in which the deficiency 
occurs. 

1048 
3/14/68 
-25-
The memorandum, with certain modifications, had been sent to 
the Federal Reserve Banks for comments. A memorandum dated February 26, 
-V 
1968, from the Division of Bank Operations stated that most of the 
Reserve Banks had indicated general agreement with the recommendations 
a
nd suggested no changes, exceptions being the New York and Dallas 
Reserve Banks, whose suggestions were described in the memorandum, as 
w
ell as minor changes proposed by other Reserve Banks. 
The memorandum concluded by noting that if pending legislation 
abolishing the gold reserve requirement were enacted, the only one of the 
recommendations that would still be relevant would be the one relating to 
effecting interdistrict settlements in securities rather than in gold. 
At this morning's meeting Governor Robertson commented on the 
Worsening situation in the London gold market and actions now being 
considered in Treasury-Federal Reserve conferences, which Chairman 
^krtin and Governor Daane were attending, to stem the outflow of gold 
from the United States. The latest report indicated a gold loss today 
Counting to more than $350 million. The bill providing for removal 
°f the gold cover for Federal Reserve notes, having been passed by the 
House of Representatives, was now being debated on the floor of the 
Senate. While early passage seemed probable, gold certificate holdings 
°f the Federal Reserve Banks were dropping near the statutory minimum 
requirement. 

10 
3/14/68 
-25-
Mr. Holland reported that it appeared possible that the gold 
cover bill might be passed by the Senate today, but also that action 
might not be completed until tomorrow. He then furnished figures 
regarding gold losses, the amount of free gold, and the possibility 
°f further gold drains that might bring reserves against Federal 
Reserve notes down to or below the statutory minimum. 
Mr. Ring suggested that an appropriate first step would be to 
submit a proposal to the Federal Open Market Committee calling for 
daily reallocations of gold holdings as of the previous day, instead 
°f monthly. If the authorization of the Committee could be obtained 
today through a telephone conference, daily reallocation could be begun 
tomorrow. Through such a procedure, the available gold reserve for 
the entire System would be allocated equally to each Reserve Bank, so 
that no individual Bank would have a deficiency as long as the aggregate 
reserve for the System was sufficient. 
After a discussion of present and proposed procedures, Governor 
Mitchell expressed the view that reserves were falling sufficiently 
close to the statutory minimum that the Board should take action without 
delay. However, Mr. Holland indicated that Chairman Martin had asked 
that such action not be taken until he could be present. 
Further discussion extensively explored the procedures that 
w
°uld be affected by the staff recommendations, the relative urgency 
the various proposals, and problems of timing. There was general 

1050 
3/14/68 
-25-
agreement that, depending upon today's developments, the Board should 
be prepared to move to weekly computation of Reserve Bank reserves; to 
prescribe penalties for reserve deficiencies of 1/10 of 1 per cent when 
the reserve was less than 25 per cent but not less than 20 per cent and 
°f the minimums stated in the law for reserve levels of less than 20 per 
cent; and to request the Federal Open Market Committee to approve daily 
rather than monthly reallocation of gold holdings. 
There was also a general understanding among the members present 
that if need arose the Board would stand ready to suspend gold reserve 
requirements. However, it was brought out that the expected change from 
daily to weekly reserve computation would have the effect of delaying 
a few days the possible emergence of a reserve deficiency, and in 
that interim it could be reasonably anticipated that suspension of the 
Sold reserve requirement would be obviated by passage of the bill removing 
the gold cover. It was indicated that the condition statement of the 
Federal Reserve Banks as of March 13, which would be issued today, would 
n
°t involve any problem of deficiency; the gold reserve ratio as of 
yesterday had been 26.4 per cent. 
Mr. Hackley then referred to the staff recommendation that the 
Board request the Board of Directors of each Reserve Bank to adopt a 
standing resolution authorizing appropriate additions to the discount 
r
ate in the event of reserve deficiencies. He saw no objection to 
resolutions noting that the discount rate had been increased as required 

1051 
3/14/68 
-25-
by law. However, they should avoid giving the impression that the 
rate had been changed for policy reasons. 
Further comments developed a consensus in favor of omitting 
action at this time on the recommendation regarding resolutions. 
There was also brief comment regarding the possibility of a 
change in Reserve Bank discount rates. Governor Robertson observed 
that in considering the proposed schedule of penalties for reserve 
deficiencies, the Board must keep in mind the extent to which such 
Penalties would reduce latitude for discount rate changes as an 
instrument of monetary policy. 
Further discussion led to a general view that, even if the day's 
developments should not point to the need to suspend gold reserve require-
ments, the Board should meet again later in the day, after the staff had 
completed assembling relevant materials, to act upon certain of the staff 
- 
> -
recommendations. In addit ion to those regarding which agreement had 
already been reached, the tentative consensus was in favor of acceptance 
recommendations 2, 3, and 10, no action being considered necessary at 
the present time regarding recommendations 5 and 9. 
The Board also considered the possibility of action relating to 
maximum rates of interest payable on time deposits under Regulation Q, 
Payment of Interest on Deposits. Mr. Gramley commented on possible 
courses of action, focusing his remarks primarily on large certificates 
°f deposit. (Note: His analysis was later distributed to the Board, 

10 sz 
3/14/68 
-12-
and a copy has been placed in the Board's files.) Members of the Board 
also presented suggestions of a preliminary nature regarding action that 
m
ight be taken in this area. 
.' M i,.,-. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
4:00 p.m., with all members of the Board present and the following staff 
members in attendance: 
•-•Hi 
-i 
'ir 
1 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the 
Board and Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
and Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, 
Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 

1053 
3/14/68 
-25-
Chairman Martin commented on conferences with the President and 
the Treasury Department regarding the current international monetary 
crisis. Today the United States had lost $370 million in gold and the 
Bank of England $250 million. It had been decided to request Great 
Britain to close the London gold market temporarily, and it was hoped 
that a bank holiday would be declared in London. Efforts were being 
roade to arrange a meeting at the Board's offices, over the coming week-
e
nd, of the central bank governors of the active gold pool countries 
to discuss measures to cope with the situation. 
Chairman Martin said he and Secretary of the Treasury Fowler 
had also met with Congressional leaders regarding the need for an 
income tax surcharge, but there appeared little prospect of early 
e
nactment of such a measure. However, it was possible that the bill 
removing gold reserve requirements against Federal Reserve notes might 
be passed this evening. 
The Chairman also said he had mentioned to the President that 
a number of the Reserve Banks had requested approval of an increase in 
the discount rate, and that it looked as if there might be agreement on 
a
n increase of 1/2 of 1 per cent. 
Chairman Martin further commented that Secretary Fowler would 
Probably reiterate recommendations for a tax increase and expenditure 
*-
u
ts along with the announcement regarding the temporary closing of the 
London gold market and negotiations for a meeting of central bank 

1054 
3/14/68 
-25-
governors of the gold pool countries. It appeared to him (Chairman 
Martin) that there was merit in acting on a discount rate increase 
today. 
Chairman Martin also described consultations with the Bank of 
England as to whether a discount rate increase in the United States 
would cause any embarrassment to the efforts of British authorities 
to deal with their own monetary problems pending the presentation of 
the austerity budget that was expected to be submitted within a few 
days. 
Chairman Martin then requested that the Secretary review the 
status of Reserve Bank actions on discount rate changes and that members 
°f the Board comment regarding the size of increase they considered 
appropriate. 
Mr. Holland said that the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Kansas City had acted 
to establish a rate of 5 per cent (an increase of 1/2 of 1 per cent). 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York had established a rate of 6 per 
C e
n t , St. Louis and Dallas a rate of 5-1/2 per cent, and Chicago a rate 
o f
 4-3/4 per cent. 
It was also reported that while the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis had voted for a rate of 5-1/2 per cent, they 
Were prepared to establish a rate of 5 per cent if that rate was generally 
favored. 

10 
3/14/68 
-15-
Governor Mitchell stated that, while his earlier view had been 
that an increase of 1/4 of 1 per cent would be sufficient, he now 
thought an increase of 1/2 of 1 per cent should be approved. 
1/2 of 1 per cent and that he was concerned regarding the New York 
Reserve Bank's proposal for an increase of 1-1/2 per cent. Also, in 
connection with the coming meeting of central bank governors, he did 
not believe any promise should be made that was not consistent with 
running the United States monetary system according to the needs of 
the domestic economy. Any solution to the gold problem should be com-
patible with what was best for the domestic economy. 
Chairman Martin and Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting 
at this point. 
Governor Robertson said he had had an informal notification 
from First Vice President Treiber that the New York Reserve Bank's 
directors had voted for a rate of 6 per cent because they felt that 
international considerations made a decisive discount rate move neces-
s
ary as a demonstration of resolute determination to protect the dollar 
In the judgment of the directors, this action should be coupled with 
s
trong fiscal action to improve confidence in the dollar. If the Board 
°f Governors should decline to approve a 6 per cent rate, however, the 
Board of Directors had indicated willingness to establish a rate of 
per cent. 
Governor Maisel stated that he was in favor of an increase of 

Xa »> 
3/14/68 
-16-
Governor Brimmer observed that the Board could determine the 
rate for the New York Bank under its statutory power to "review and 
determine." 
This was a possibility on which he would want to comment 
further when the Chairman returned to the meeting. 
Governors Brimmer and Robertson then expressed themselves in 
favor of an increase of 1/2 of 1 per cent, after which Governor Robertson 
suggested that the Secretary call Mr. Treiber to inform him of the tenor 
of the Board's discussion and ask if the New York directors wanted to 
stand by their action. 
Chairman Martin and Governor Daane returned to the meeting at 
this point. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that it was vital to exhibit 
as much uniformity within the System as possible. Therefore, since the 
Members of the Board were in general agreement that the rate increase 
that 
would be appropriate was 1/2 of 1 per cent, if necessary the Board 
should determine the rate for the New York Reserve Bank. He inquired 
what the current situation was with respect to the international monetary 
crisis. 
Chairman Martin said it was expected that an announcement would 
indicate 
that the temporary closing of the London gold market would 
have no effect on buying and selling of gold at $35 an ounce by the 
United States, and that the governors of the central banks of the gold 
Pool countries had been invited to consult with United States officials. 

1057 
3/14/68 
-17-
A-t this point it seemed probable that the statement would be issued 
jointly by Secretary Fowler and himself. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the Reserve Banks of 
Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas should be given an opportunity to join 
with the other Banks that had voted for a rate of 5 per cent, and Governor 
Sherrill remarked that he was agreeable to the 5 per cent rate. He 
thought that in the next few days it was going to be difficult to keep 
domestic and international considerations separated. He concurred with 
Governor Maisel's point that it must be kept firmly in mind that keeping 
the domestic economy intact was probably the strongest defense in the 
l o
ng pull. 
Governor Robertson again expressed himself in favor of a 5 per 
c
ent discount rate. He thought it was important to have as near unanimity 
a s
 possible, and therefore he advocated giving each Reserve Bank that had 
v
oted for a different rate an opportunity to join in the 5 per cent rate. 
was not concerned what route was taken to that end; perhaps one way 
would be to determine the rate for all Reserve Banks that had not voted 
5 per cent. However, he believed it was important to approve promptly 
the actions of those Banks that had established a 5 per cent rate and to 
announce that approval today. 
Governor Daane agreed with the suggested timing, and Governor 
trimmer expressed concurrence with the idea of determining the rate, if 
necessary, for any Bank that had not voted for 5 per cent. 

1058 
3/14/68 
-18-
Chairman Martin said, however, that he would be loath to 
determine the discount rate for any of the Reserve Banks. To do so 
would react to the detriment of the effort made in recent years to 
assure the directors of the value placed on their contributions to 
System affairs. A judgment reached at this time of excitement could 
destroy in days a confidence that had been long cultivated. 
Chairman Martin also responded to the note of apprehension 
expressed by Governors Maisel and Sherrill that solutions might be 
Proposed for international problems that would not serve the interests 
°f the United States economy. It had been his impression during the 
meetings he recently had attended at Basle that none of the central 
bankers present had any desire that the United States accept measures 
in the international field that would be detrimental to its domestic 
e c
onomy. Moreover, lest it be thought that they were not conversant 
with U.S. domestic problems, it was his impression that they were 
e x
tremely well informed. 
In further discussion, Governor Brimmer said he was still of 
the view that the Board should determine the rate for the New York 
Reserve Bank in the present circumstances. A few days ago he had been 
in favor of an increase of half a point as being appropriate for domestic 
reasons, and international developments now confirmed that view. It was 
his impression that the proposal of the New York Reserve Bank's directors 
had been in the making for some time, and the 6 per cent rate proposed 
w
as out of line with the general trend of thought within the System. 

3/14/68 
-19-
Chairmari Martin replied that, while the appearance of solidarity 
was desirable, he did not believe the Board should determine the rate, 
ttis approach to power was that one having it should refrain from using 
it if at all possible. 
Mr. Holland had withdrawn from the meeting earlier to determine 
whether additional Reserve Banks wished to join in establishing a 5 per 
cent discount rate, in the light of the consensus that had developed 
within the Board in favor of such a rate. He now returned to the room 
a
nd reported that the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago, 
St. Louis, and Dallas believed that they could get in touch with their 
directors shortly and that there would be agreement with a 5 per cent 
rate. Mr. Treiber was trying to reach the New York directors (who had 
left the Bank's premises) to ascertain whether they wished to stand 
with the action they had submitted or to amend it. 
While awaiting further word from the several Federal Reserve 
fi
anks, the Board discussed language for a press release announcing an 
increase in the discount rate and Mr. Cardon reported on the status of 
the bill to remove gold reserve requirements against Federal Reserve 
n
otes. 
A telephone conference meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee was to begin shortly, and Mr. Solomon outlined proposals 
that Mr. Coombs, Special Manager of the System Open Market Account, 
intended to submit to the Committee. In preparation for that conference, 

1060 
3/14/68 
-25-
Mr. Solomon distributed to the members of the Board materials the staff 
had prepared bearing upon such proposals. 
Mr. Molony indicated that word had now been received from the 
Treasury that it would prefer to withhold the announcement regarding 
the closing of the London gold market until the Senate had completed 
its action on the gold cover bill, but suggested that in the meantime 
the Board's announcement on the discount rate be released as soon as 
possible. 
The ensuing discussion indicated agreement on a relatively 
short announcement, a draft of which Mr. Molony read. Question was 
raised whether, along with the discount rate action, the Board wished 
to act on interest rate ceilings on large certificates of deposit. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that insufficient background 
information was available upon which to base a Regulation Q action, 
and Governor Brimmer observed that under 1966 legislation the Board 
was required to consult with other agencies before taking action. 
Chairman Martin, who then reentered the room after a short 
absence, said he had talked with Chairman Case of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York and with Mr. Treiber. Chairman Case had been polling 
the New York directors and their preference appeared to be for omitting 
the New York Bank in any discount rate change announced this evening. 
If the announcement must be made tonight and the Board felt the New 
York Bank must be included in the action, the preference would be, in 

1061 
3/14/68 
-25-
view of the feeling of the New York Bank's directors regarding their 
statutory responsibility, that the statement indicate that the Bank's 
rate had been reviewed and determined by the Board. If more time were 
available, so that the New York directors could have another meeting 
and discuss the matter in the light of the considerations that had 
prompted the Board to favor a rate of 5 per cent, it seemed probable 
that they too would vote for that rate. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether special weight would attach 
to the inclusion of the New York Bank in the action because of its unique 
role in the international field. Chairman Martin expressed the view 
that it would, particularly since it was generally known that the New 
York directors had had a meeting today. Governor Daane expressed the 
view that while some weight attached to having the New York Reserve 
Bank included, it would not be helpful to indicate that there was a 
significant difference of view within the System by resorting to deter-
mination of the New York rate. 
After further discussion there was a general agreement with a 
Sll
ggestion that action be taken with respect to those Reserve Banks that 
had submitted, or were in the process of submitting, a rate of 5 per cent, 
hut not with respect to other Reserve Banks. 
Governor Brimmer observed that a problem might be posed if after 
additional deliberation the New York directors remained unwilling to 
e s
tablish a rate of 5 per cent. 

1062 
3/14/68 
-25-
Governor Daane agreed that in that event the Board might have 
to resort to determination of the rate. However, at the present junc-
ture, while it would be preferable to have the New York Reserve Bank 
included, he would be inclined to forego action regarding that Bank in 
order to give its directors an opportunity to deliberate further. There 
had been other times when the New York Reserve Bank had not joined 
initially in a discount rate action. 
The Secretary reported that word had now been received that the 
directors of the Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas Reserve Banks had voted 
for a 5 per cent discount rate. 
The Board thereupon, by unanimous vote, approved the establish-
ment by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas, effective Friday, 
March 15, 1968, of a rate of 5 per cent on discounts for and advances to 
member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. The 
Board also approved unanimously the establishment by those Banks of a 
r
ate of 5-1/2 per cent on advances under section 10(b) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, along with rates of 6 per cent by the Federal Reserve Banks 
°f Boston, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and 
D a
U a s , and 6-1/2 per cent by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland 
and Atlanta on advances to individuals, partnerships, and corporations 
other than member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 of the 
federal Reserve Act. 

1963 
3/14/68 
-23-
The Board also approved unanimously the issuance of a press 
release in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
(Note: The press release 
was issued by the Board at approximately 6:15 p.m.) 
Gold reserves against Federal Reserve notes. Governor Robertson 
reviewed, for the benefit of Chairman Martin and Governor Daane, the 
tentative agreements reached this morning on staff recommendations relat-
ing to problems with respect to gold reserve requirements against Federal 
Reserve notes. 
The ensuing discussion indicated unanimous agreement on the 
foil owing positions regarding the numbered recommendations as summarized 
in the staff memorandum dated January 23, 1968: 
Approve the first recommendation, calling for 
computation of Reserve Bank reserve requirements 
on a weekly rather than daily basis; 
Authorize the staff to follow the conservative 
procedures for rounding figures suggested under 
the second recommendation; 
Authorize the staff to continue the existing 
policy of leveling the reserve ratios of all 
Reserve Banks, as suggested under the third 
recommendation; 
Submit a proposal to the Federal Open Market 
Committee, as suggested under the fourth recom-
mendation, calling for daily reallocations of 
gold holdings as of the previous day, in lieu 
of the present monthly procedure; 
No action to be taken at the present time regarding 
the fifth recommendation, calling for steps to put 
into effect an arrangement under which all Inter-
district Settlement Fund transactions would be 
settled through security holdings rather than 
through gold holdings; 

1064 
3/14/68 
-25-
No action to be taken at the present time 
regarding the sixth recommendation, calling 
for suspension of reserve requirements when 
there is a deficiency in required reserves, 
but not before a deficiency occurs; 
Approve the seventh recommendation, relating 
to the schedule of penalty taxes on reserve 
deficiencies; 
No action to be taken on the eighth recommenda-
tion, under which the Board would have requested 
the directors of each Reserve Bank to adopt a 
standing resolution authorizing appropriate 
additions to the discount rate in the event 
of reserve deficiencies; 
No action to be taken at the present time on the 
ninth recommendation, under which mandatory addi-
tions to the discount rate would be determined on 
the basis of an "effective tax rate" computed by 
dividing the total tax by the total deficiency; 
Approve the tenth recommendation, providing 
that any increase in the discount rate required 
because of a reserve deficiency be made effective 
on the first day of the period following that in 
which the deficiency occurred. 
In light of the foregoing discussion, the Board approved 
unanimously a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached 
a s
 Item No. 5, with the understanding that the text would be sent to 
the Reserve Banks by wire this evening. 
There followed a telephone conference meeting of the Federal 
Open Market Committee, as recorded in the minutes of the Committee. 
The telephone conference meeting began at approximately 5:35 p.m. and 
concluded at approximately 6:40 p.m. The Board meeting then resumed 
a n
d Chairman Martin reported that prospects now appeared favorable for 

1065 
3/14/68 
-25-
passage by the Senate shortly of the bill to remove the gold cover. 
He also advised that in any event the statement by the Secretary of 
the Treasury and himself with regard to the closing of the London gold 
market and the central bank meeting this weekend would be released this 
evening. (Note: A copy of the statement is attached as Item No. 6.) 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics requesting 
approval for a dinner at the Sheraton Carlton Hotel for the System Research 
Advisory Committee on Tuesday, April 2, with attendance of approximately 50 
persons. 
Memorandum from the Division of Examinations recommending the trans-
fer of Bedelia Hose, Secretary in the Division of Personnel Administration, 
to the position of Secretary, Task Force-Special Regulations, effective 
March 24, 1968. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
On March 14, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
items, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 
B ^ t h e Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
approving the appointment of Franz Josef Christa 
as assistant examiner. 
7 
•§%_the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
better to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, approving the establishment of 
eight limited-service branches in connection 
w
ith the proposed acquisition of substantially 
a
ll of the assets of Sonoma Mortgage Corporation, 
s
anta Rosa, California. 
8 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 Lv^'; 
3/14/68 
b o a r d 
o f 
g
o
v
e
r
n
o
r
s 
OfCOvW.. - 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E B P O N D E N 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 14, 1968. 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 9, 1968, the Board 
r Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation M , for Bank of America National Trust and 
pavings Association (»B of A NT&SA"), San Francisco, California, to 
Purchase and hold up to 100 per cent of the outstanding stock of 
"anco del Este S.A. ("Banco"), Montevideo, Uruguay, at a cost of ap-
proximately US$150,000, provided at least approximately 85 per cent 
* such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
setter. 
of u
 
T h e 
B o a r d
'
s
 consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
i shares of Banco by B of A NT&SA is granted subject to the applica-
e
 provisions of Section 25 and Regulation M and the condition that 
of A NT&SA shall not hold any shares of stock of Banco if Banco 
^ any time fails to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
national bank or to a foreign branch of a national bank under the 
Provisions of Regulation M. 
The above consent is granted with the further condition that 
a t°
f A
 NT&SA shall not carry on its books the shares acquired of Banco 
a net amount in excess of its proportionate share of the book cap-
al accounts of Banco, after giving effect to the elimination of all 
Kn
°wn losses. 
q 
Regulation M provides that, when required by the Board of 
g a
V
®
r n
°rs, B of A NT&SA will furnish the Board with such reports re-
r 
n
8 the activities of Banco as it may require from time to time. 

1067 
;< 
•. 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
-2-
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign 
loans and investments of your bank, Bank of America, New York, and 
Bamerical International Financial Corporation, San Francisco, will 
not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now 
in effect. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

- • -
. • • • . 
' ' a f i f e f r -
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 2 
3/14/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. C. to 181 
.068 
A O O R I I I 
D r r i C I A L 
C D R R C 8 P Q N O E N C E 
TO THC ROAD• 
March 14, 1968. 
Mr. Fred M. Vinson, Jr., 
Assistant Attorney General, 
Department of Justice, 
Washington, D. C. 20530 
Dear Mr. Vinson: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 1, 1968, addressed 
to Mr. Jack M. Egertson of the Board's staff. Your letter requests 
that representatives of the Department of Justice be permitted to 
examine any information in the Board's files relating to Columbia 
Bank, Tampa, Florida. 
It is understood that this request concerns an investigation 
that is being made oi possible violations of criminal law by an indi-
vidual whose name was given to Mr. Egertson by Mr. Johnson of your 
Department. 
The Board Is glad to cooperate with respect to this matter 
and has authorized its staff to make available at the Board's offices 
to representatives of your Department the Board's files relating to 
the bank for the intended purpose. The Board has asked that any infor-
mation of assistance to your Department be used solely for investigative 
purposes, and that before any other use is made of it, including its 
use in a judicial proceeding of any nature, the Board's authorization 
therefor be obtained. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 3 
3/14/68 
For immediate release 
March 14, 1968. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
today for the benefit of applicants a statement of policy regarding joint 
Ventures in foreign banking and financial activities. 
The statement made plain that, as in bank merger and holding 
company matters, competitive aspects will be considered by the Board in 
Passing upon proposals for joint international ventures by two or more 
hanks or "Edge Act" or "Agreement" corporations--those engaged in foreign 
hanking and financing under the Federal Reserve Act. 
In recent months such proposals have been more frequent than 
many years. 
The text of the "Statement of Policy on Joint Ventures" is as 
follows: 
Before approving a proposed international joint venture, such 
as a jointly-ovmed Edge corporation or foreign bank, the Board of 
Governors will consider the possible competitive effects thereof on 
United States domestic and foreign commerce and consult with the 
Department of Justice regarding any antitrust issues. Applicants 
shall submit all relevant material relating thereto. 
This statement will be published in the Federal Register in 
c
°nnection with the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211), governing Edge Act 
a
nd Agreement corporations, and Regulation 11 (12 CFR 213), pertaining to 
foreign activities of national banks. 
- 0 -

p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
Item No. 
3/14/68 
For immediate release. 
March 14, 1968 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today an increase in discount rates designed to 
strengthen the international position of the dollar and to 
curb inflationary pressures in the domestic economy. 
Acting unanimously, the Board approved actions by the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City 
and Dallas increasing the discount rates of those Banks to 5 
per cent, from 4-1/2 per cent, effective Friday, March 15, 1968. 
The discount rate is the interest rate charged member 
banks for borrowing from their district Federal Reserve Banks. 
The new rate will be the highest in nearly four decades. 

.^OVGO^.. 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 Lv^'; 
3/14/68 
S-2049 
A D D R E S S 
D F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O E N C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 15, 1968. 
De 
a
r Sir: 
now 
Re 
The Board has approved 
certain changes in the instructions 
^ outstanding with respect to gold certificate reserves of Federal 
S u b
e r v e
 
This letter sets forth the current instructions on this 
a n d
 supersedes the letter of February 23, 1966 (F.R.L.S. #5880). 
Citation of reserves 
of
 
A
 Federal Reserve Bank's total gold certificate reserves consist 
and i
 
S U m
 °
f i t S 
8
°
l d c e r t i f i c
a t e s on hand and due from the U. S. Treasury 
L t
s redemption fund for Federal Reserve notes (code TAGG on form FR 34), 
8 e r v
 
F o r 
t h e
 purpose of computing the ratio of gold certificate re-
no t e
G S 
t o 
F e d e r a l
 Reserve notes, a Federal Reserve Bank shall include as 
a
gainst which reserves must be maintained all outstanding notes 
leSs
 h a v
f been issued to it by the Federal Reserve Agent (code DEER) 
notes as are in the possession of the Bank or have been for-
for destruction and credit (code DOTH). 
n
°te
 
r a t i o 
o f 
t o t a
l gold certificate reserves to Federal Reserve 
days Ability shall be computed each week on a daily average basis (seven 
e n d i n
g Wednesdays) and reported to the Board on form FR 34 each 
Of t L
S d a y
'
 
T h e
 reserve ratio shall be computed to one place to the right 
6 d e c
*-
m a
l point and any remaining fraction dropped regardless of 
fy 9*
 
T h u s
, the ratio that might be 24.99 per cent should be stated as 
rather than 25.0 per cent. 
IN. _ 
^Igncy in reserves 
If a Bank's average gold certificate reserves fall below 25 
s h a ^
e n t
 °f its average note liability, as prescribed above, the Bank 
Pay a tax on such deficiency computed as follows: 

f f \ ^
4
> 
S-2049 
if' 
- 2 -
Koa, 
When such reserve falls below 25 per cent, but is not less than 
20 per cent, the tax upon the deficiency will be at the rate of 1/10 
of 1 per cent per annum. 
When such reserve falls below 20 per cent, but is not less than 
17-1/2 per cent, the tax on the deficiency below 20 per cent will be 
at the rate of 1-6/10 per cent per annum. 
When such reserve falls below 17-1/2 per cent, but is not less 
than 15 per cent, the tax on the deficiency below 17-1/2 per cent 
will be at the rate of 3-1/10 per cent per annum; and so on, increas-
ing the tax at the rate of 1-1/2 per cent per annum upon each further 
deficiency in the reserve amounting to 2-1/2 per cent or any fraction 
thereof. 
. 
In the event that a Reserve Bank has a deficiency in reserves, 
shall file a report on form FR 420. The report shall be submitted to 
e
 Bureau of Accounts, Treasury Department, Washington, D. C., promptly 
e r
 the end of the month in which the deficiency or deficiencies occurred 
« appropriate tax shall then be paid by credit to the Treasurer's General 
c
°
u n
t, with advice of such payment accompanying each report. A copy of 
ctl
 report and advice shall be forwarded to the Board. 
pn to discount rate 
g. 
The Federal Reserve Act requires that an amount equal to the 
^c°
Ve
 tax rates on deficiencies shall be added to the discount rate. 
^
c
°
r
dingly, the rate of the tax shall be added to the discount rate. 
V such increase in the discount rate shall be made effective as of the 
p
 e n
ing of business on the first day of the weekly reserve computation 
t e *
i o d
 following the period in which there was a reserve deficiency, and 
ltl
 whi 
w 
— i i u w i l l g 
LUC 
p c i i u u 
J- n 
WUJ.UII 
v 
" 
- ~ 
— 
J > 
.
 m
ain i n e f f e c t 
u n t i l the close of business on the last day of the period 
^ wl 
*
U d
 above. 
c
h the deficiency is eliminated or falls within another range speci-
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
- OS-
TO T h i ? PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

Item No. 
1 
Lv^'; 
3/14/68 
TREASURY DEPARTMENT 
and 
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 
> 
_ 
£0R IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
Washington, D. C. 
March 14, 1968 
STATEMENT BY THE HONORABLE HENRY H 0 FOWLER, 
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, AND 
THE HONORABLE WILLIAM McCHESNEY MARTIN, 
CHAIRMAN OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 
The temporary closing of the London market does not 
Effect the United States undertaking to buy and sell gold 
^ t r a n s a c t i o n s with monetary authorities at the official 
Price of $35 per ounca. 
We have invited the central bank governors of the 
a
ctive gold pool countries to consult with us on coordinated 
Measures to ensure orderly conditions in the exchange markets 
aric
l to support the present pattern of exchange rates based 
0 r i
 the fixed price of $35 per ounce of gold. 
The central bank governors invited are: 
Hubert Ansiaux, Governor, Banque National de 
Belgique, Belgium; Dr. Karl Blessing, President, 
Deutsche Bundesbank, Germany; Guido Carli, 
Governor, Banca d
1
Italia, Italy; Prof. J. 
Zijlstra, President, De Nederlandsche Bank, 
Netherlands; Dr. E. Stopper, President, 
Banque National Swisse, Switzerland, and 
Sir Leslie Kenneth O'Brien, Governor, Bank 
of England, United Kingdom. 
oOo 

Item No 
T E L E G R A M 
3/14/68 
L E A S E D WIRE 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
STEPHENSON - ATLANTA 
Reurlet March 11, 1968, Acting Director, Division of 
Examinations on behalf of Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves appointment of 
Franz Josef Christa as assistant examiner for Federal 
Reserve Bank Atlanta effective March 18, 1968. 
It is noted that Mr. Christa is Secretary-Treasurer 
of W . W. Phillips & Associates, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia, 
and that he is willing to resign from the firm. 
Accordingly, approval of the appointment of Mr. Christa 
is given on the condition that he sever connections with 
the firm upon employment by your Bank. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , CALIFORNIA 
9 4 1 2 0 
March 14, 1968 
Item No. 
1 
Lv^'; 
3/14/68 
Board of Directors, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California 94120 
Dear Sirs: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federa 
Reserve System, acting under delegated author! ty^^iis 3<~nk/has 
approved the establishment by Wells Fargo Bank,' SanF^atraisfco 
California, of branch ofices at the following locations, 
connection wiLh the proposed acquisition of substantially a 
assets ol Sonoma Mortgage Corporation, Santa 
California:
N 
3630 Belaiie P U z a , 
Wupa, California 
951 Front Sti-yeu, 
Nova to, California 
L^Jr-Arden WaV, 
latramento, C«^ii'ornia 
Suite 620, 
700 Wilshire Boulevard, 
Los Angelesi California 
Room j & y , iluss Building, 
235-^Montgouiury Street, 
• an Francj-sco, California 
77\ North Fiiiit Street, 
San Jose, California 
1325 Locus. StreeL, 
Walnut Creeic, California 
1701 Fourth Street, 
Sfcnta Rosa, California 
^ 
Xhi^ approval is granted with the understanding that 
the activities will be limited to the negotiating, processing, 
a
nd servicing of real estate mortgage loans. 
It will be appreciated If you will advise the Board 
J
f Governors in writing, through this bank, when the propo&ed 
'Acquisition has been consummated and the branches established 
a s
 offices of the bank. 
Very truly yours, 
a 
(si>ne<H Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
