Minutes for 
December 11, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
•y 

. 4780 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, December 11, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Sigel, Smith, Eckert, Ettin, Gehman, Thompson, 
Trueblood, Weiner, and Zeisel, and Mrs. 
Smelker of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Irvine, Katz, Reynolds, 
Wood, Baker, Bryant, Emery, Gekker, Kohn, 
Lee, Maroni, Mills, and Pizer of the Division 
of International Finance 
Economic review. Members of the staff presented a review of 
international economic and financial developments in the wake of deval-
uation of the pound sterling, with emphasis on the U.S. balance of pay-
ments position. Trends in U.S. domestic business and financial conditions 

* 4781 
12/11/67 
-2-
were also reviewed. The reports were based to some extent on materials 
that had been distributed in preparation for tomorrow's meeting of the 
Federal Open Market Committee; copies of the relevant documentation 
have been placed in the Committee's files. 
Following discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions other than Messrs. Brill, Partee, Smith, Sammons, 
and Reynolds withdrew from the meeting, as did Miss McWhirter, and the 
following entered: 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Poundstone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Mes srs. Shull, Cleaver, Eisenbeis, and Lawrence 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Application of Philadelphia National Bank (Item No. 1). Unani-
mous approval was given to a letter to The Philadelphia National Bank, 
Philadelph ia, Pennsylvania, approving the establishment of a branch in 
Nassau, Bahamas. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed merger of Bank of Walhalla, Walhalla, South Carolina, into 
Southern Bank and Trust Company, Greenville, South Carolina, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion stated 
that the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Staunton 

12/11/61 
-3-
Industrial Bank, Staunton, Virginia, into The Bank of Craigsville, Inc., 
Craigsville, Virginia, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of The Staunton Industrial 
Bank, Staunton, Virginia, and The Bank of Craigsville, 
Inc., Craigsville, both of which are subsidiaries of 
First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, 
Virginia, a registered bank holding company, would 
have no adverse effect on competition. 
There had been distributed a draft of report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Pacific National Bank of San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California, into Security First National Bank, Los Angeles, California. 
The conclusion would state that the effect on competition would be 
adverse. 
The conclusion of the Examinations Department of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco had been that the competitive effects of 
the proposed merger would be substantially adverse, while the Research 
Department believed that stronger competition was likely to result, not 
only in San Francisco and Los Angeles but in the State as a whole. 
Mr. Egertson said it was the feeling of the Division of Examina-
tions that the two banks were not, as between themselves, strong com-
petitors. Pacific National was a "wholesale" bank; therefore, there 
was no competition between the two banks at the "retail" level. 
j)» *i '.'», N < 111 ( • 
„. • 
Mr. Shull said the Banking Markets Section felt that the merger 
would have anticompetitive effects, particularly in terms of eliminating 

. 4783 
12/11/67 
-4-
potential competition. It would be possible for Security to move into 
the San Francisco area through de novo branching; in fact, there was a 
good probability that it would do so if a merger could not be effected. 
However, the anticompetitive effect appeared to be moderated by the 
fact that banking in the San Francisco market was highly competitive, 
with numerous large and smaller banks operating there. Pacific National 
did not appear to have been a very effective competitor in that market. 
Governor Brimmer suggested focusing on Security rather than 
Pacif ic. Security seemed determined to enter San Francisco, and it 
could do so by establishing offices de novo. He was convinced, also, 
that Pacific was not likely to sit by and do nothing; it would probably 
get into retail banking and establish branches to maintain its position. 
If the proposed merger were before the Board, he would not recommend 
i 
its approval, because he believed the competitive effect would be sub-
stantially adverse. He would so word the competitive factor report. 
Governor Sherrill said that he would reach a different conclu-
sion. While the merger would eliminate a relatively small bank, the 
result should be to provide stronger competition for the large banks 
operating in the northern part of California. Accordingly, he would 
ttot be prepared to support a stronger conclusion than "adverse." 
Governor Maisel suggested that the critical question was whether 
it was preferable to achieve stronger competition now through the pro-
Posed merger or to wait for the slower process of de novo branching. 
The case was close, and either conclusion would be satisfactory to him. 

, 4784 
12/11/67 
-5-
Governor Robertson indicated that he would have leaned toward 
"substantially adverse." However, he did not consider the case open 
and shut, and he had no strong feeling. 
The transmittal of the report to the Comptroller was then 
approved. Governor Brimmer dissenting, with the conclusion reading as 
follows: 
Some competition exists between Security First National 
Bank, Los Angeles, and Pacific National Bank of San Francisco, 
primarily for business of regional or national concerns. Con-
summation of the transaction would eliminate potential for 
greater competition between them in view of the State branch-
ing laws. 
The proposed transaction would unite the second and 
thirteenth largest bank in the State of California and would 
be the first step in creating another statewide banking orga-
nization. While the continuing bank might be a stronger com-
petitor for the other large California banks which operate 
extensive branch systems in the northern part of the State, 
there is a very heavy concentration of banking resources in 
California in a small number of very large banks and this 
transaction would increase that already high level. Overall, 
the effect on competition would be adverse. 
Report on "Mclntyre Amendments" (Item No. 2). Pursuant to the 
understanding at the meeting on December 8, 1967, there had been dis-
tributed a revised draft of report to the Chairman of the Senate Com-
mittee on Banking and Currency on amendments proposed by Senator 
Mclntyre to S. 1659, a bill to amend the Investment Company Act of 
1940. These amendments dealt, in brief, with activities of banks in 
the field of collective investment of funds. 
Governor Robertson summarized the consensus at the meeting on 
December 8, which was that while the probable benefits from increased 

478 
12/11/67 
-6-
competition resulting from operation of collective funds by banks would 
outweigh the risks, the nature of those risks should be spelled out. 
The proposed report reflected that approach. 
Governor Robertson also noted that a previous draft had included 
a paragraph that would suggest reconsideration of the feature of the 
proposed amendments that would prohibit the inclusion of a "sales load" 
in the public offering price of interests in banks1 managing-agency 
collective funds. Governor Robertson reviewed the reasons suggested 
at the December 8 meeting for omission of such a paragraph from the 
report to the Committee. However, Governor Brimmer had favored the 
inclusion of such a paragraph. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that last Friday's discussion had 
indicated that he was apparently alone in favoring the inclusion of the 
paragraph. That being the case, he would withdraw his suggestion with 
respect to the letter, but he would want to have his position, as stated 
• ixjh i .. , . • nu 
last Friday, recorded in the minutes. 
In further discussion agreement was expressed with suggested 
changes in the letter to cover certain points raised by Governor Maisel 
and an editorial suggestion by Governor Brimmer. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the transmittal of a 
report to the Chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee in 
..-tic •• B 
. ; s y. A 
j . - ' 
the form attached as Item No. 2. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman and Brill then 
withdrew from the meeting. 

4 7 3 f > 
12/11/67 
-7-
Loan of services of Mr. Koch. The Board agreed to make the 
services of Mr. Koch, Deputy Director of the Division of Research and 
Statistics, available to the Treasury for a period beginning immediately 
after December 22, 1967, and continuing until approximately February 1, 
1968, or somewhat later, for assistance in conducting the debt manage-
ment functions of that Department, it being understood that the Board 
would not request reimbursement for Mr. Koch's salary or related costs 
for the period involved. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Governor of the Central Bank of Ceylon advising, in 
response to his request, of the nomination of J. Charles Partee, Asso-
ciate Director of the Division of Research and Statistics, to lecture 
at the Seventh SEANZA Central Banking Course in July 1968. 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
December 8, 1967, recommending that Edith G. Andrews be retained as 
a substitute nurse on a contractual basis, with compensation at the 
rate of $32 per day for each day worked. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
.Salary increases 
Carol A. Poplin, Stenographer, Legal Division, from $5,416 to 
$5,859 per annum, with a change in title to Secretary, effective 
December 17, 1967. 
Bruce D. Shuter, Attorney, Legal Division, from $10,927 to $11,685 
Per annum, effective January 14, 1968. 
Nellie D. Stuart, Clerk, Division of Administrative Services, from 
$3,925 to $4,269 per annum, effective December 31, 1967. 

4787 
*• '.'• 
. i i 
12/11/67 
-8-
•::•••' ' ' V • 
•1 - : 
Transfer 
Adrien P. Francoeur, from the position of Federal Reserve Examiner 
in the Division of Examinations to the position of Operations Analyst in 
the Division of Bank Operations, with an increase in basic annual salary 
from $12,064 to $12,443, effective upon assuming his new duties. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Robert McClellan, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business January 12, 1968. 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
4788 
Item No. 1 
12/11/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 11, 1967. 
The Philadelphia National Bank, 
Walnut and Broad Streets, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The Philadelphia National Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Re serve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, located in 
Norfolk House on the corner of Frederick Street and Trinity Place, 
Nassau, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the pro-
visions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, when the branch is open for business. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

478.9 
BOARD CDF GOVERNORS 
• F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O . C . 
2 D 5 5 I 
Item No. 2 
12/11/67 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
December 14, 1967 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr, Chairman: 
This is in response to your communication of November 14, 
requesting the Board's views on Amendments proposed by Senator Mclntyre 
to S. 1659, a bill to amend the Investment Company Act of 1940. Said 
Amendments were introduced on November 13 and are designated "Amend-
ment No. 438". 
A principal purpose of the Amendments is to amend certain 
provisions of Federal law that have been interpreted as impeding or 
preventing banks from establishing and maintaining funds for the 
collective investment of so-called "managing agency accounts", which 
are similar, in major respects, to investments in shares of open-
end investment companies ("mutual funds") as defined in the Investment 
Company Act of 1940. The Amendments would make clear that Federal law 
does not prevent banks from investing collectively either managing 
agency accounts or retirement trusts for self-employed individuals 
(so-called "Smathers-Keogh trusts" or "H.R. 10 plans"). Other important 
aspects of the Amendments are their effect on (a) the applicability of 
the Federal securities laws to collective Smathers-Keogh funds maintained 
by banks and (b) the administration of those laws as they relate to such 
funds. 
The chief question of legislative policy presented by the 
Amendments is whether it would be in the public interest for banks to 
establish and operate collective funds that would be similar to, and 
would compete with, mutual funds. Opponents of the Amendments contend 
that permitting banks to engage in this activity would constitute an 
undesirable departure from the policies of the Banking Act of 1933 
(the Glass-Steagall Act). 

4 7 3 0 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
The Board continues to believe that the principle of separa-
tion of commercial banking from investment banking, which was recognized 
by the Congress in the Banking Act of 1933, is a sound and significant 
one. This separation, we are convinced, avoids certain conflicts of 
interests that might impair the ability of commercial banks to devote 
themselves single-mindedly to their primary function of serving their 
depositors, borrowers, correspondents, and trust accounts. 
It must be borne in mind, however, that the service which 
would be performed by banks, if their collective funds were made 
available to the general public as investment media, would be similar 
in many respects to services already performed by banks for their 
individual trust and agency accounts. Moreover, the purposes of separat' 
ing commercial banking from investment banking are not significantly 
relevant to operations of the kind under discussion, for the following 
reasons. 
The principal dangers of combining operations in those two 
fields are that, if commercial banks were permitted to underwrite and 
deal in securities, (1) a bank might find itself holding, either in 
its underwriting department or in its investment portfolio, securities 
that are unsuitable for bank investment, and (2) a bank engaged in 
underwriting and dealing might have undesirable opportunities and 
temptations to overreach its correspondent banks and other customers 
by 
selling to them unsuitable or overpriced securities it had acquired 
(or contracted to acquire) in its investment banking operations. 
When the nature and the anticipated mode of operation of 
banks1 collective funds are examined, however, it appears that neither 
°f these hazards would be present to any significant extent. In the 
°peration of collective funds, the bank itself does not become the 
owner of any securities; it receives and invests the funds of the 
Participants. In other words, an essential element of the dangers 
referred to - banks acquiring securities as underwriter or dealer -
simply is not present in connection with the operation of a collective 
fund. 
It might be contended, nevertheless, that a bank's management 
o f a collective fund would permit it to "unload" on the fund poor 
investments that the bank had accumulated in its own portfolio, or to 
S e U portfolio securities to the fund at inflated prices. The Board 
believes that these would not be real dangers, in view of provisions 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-3-
4 7 ? j i 
of the securities laws and other limitations on banks1 selling assets 
to their own fiduciary accounts, the absence from banks1 portfolios of 
the kind of assets that collective funds purchase (principally corporate 
stocks), the existence of day-to-day market prices for almost all securi-
ties purchased by collective funds, and the controls and protection 
resulting from governmental supervision of banks' operations. 
Some who oppose bank operation of managing agency collective 
funds have advanced another possible drawback, somewhat related to the 
foregoing. Banks occasionally make loans that prove difficult to collect 
because of the financial situation of the borrower. In such cases, it 
has been argued, a bank might use money of a collective fund to purchase 
a new issue of stock or other securities from the weak borrower, or 
even to make a direct loan to that borrower, in order to enable it to 
discharge its indebtedness to the bank. 
Although such conflicts of interest and consequent misconduct 
are not impossible, this area of risk is not regarded as significant. 
For many years banks have participated in the management of employee-
benefit funds and other fiduciary accounts that hold stocks and other 
securities in an aggregate amount far exceeding those held by the 
entire mutual fund industry. The examinations conducted by bank 
supervisory agencies have disclosed practically no such misuse by banks 
of their investment advisory and management functions. In the case of 
Managing agency funds, an additional safeguard is the prophylactic 
restrictions and requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, 
Particularly publicity of the financial transactions of registered 
investment companies, which almost inevitably would expose such mal-
feasance. A further deterrent would be the adverse impact on a 
ctive fund's performance - its comparative financial record -
'f any of its resources were used to make unprofitable investments; 
the detrimental effect on sales of participations might outweigh any 
benefits the bank could reasonably expect from its breach of fiduciary 
duty. 
On the basis of the experience described and the additional 
safeguards that exist in the mutual fund field, the Board believes 
that this alleged risk is negligible. 
The suggestion has also been advanced that bank operation of 
"Paging agency collective funds might, in certain circumstances, 
diminish 
banks1 prestige and even public confidence in the banking 
system. An individual who invested $10,000, for example, in such a 
fund would feel that he had sustained a $3,000 loss if the market 
value of the stocks held by the fund fell 30 per cent in a bear market. 

47.92 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-4-
It is argued that this might be misunderstood (by persons who were not 
aware of the difference between bank deposits and mutual fund invest-
ments) as indicating that the bank was insolvent, and that undesirable 
consequences would result. 
Whether there would be a material risk along these lines is 
ot course, a matter of judgment as to the extent to which investors ' 
and the banking public would be aware of the difference between (a) 
oank deposits and (b) investments in a diversified portfolio of 
securities. The Board believes that this basic distinction is well 
understood by most of the persons who would be concerned. It is also 
co be noted that Securities Act prospectuses, which must be furnished 
o persons to whom mutual fund shares are offered, call attention 
explicitly to the inevitable fluctuations in value - that is, the risk 
r loss as well as the opportunity for gain - as the market prices of 
n e portfolio securities rise and fall. 
Another argument that has been advanced against bank entry 
t h e mutual fund business is that banks enjoy advantages of 
convenience, prestige, and economies which would enable them, in time 
° gain control of the mutual fund field to the virtual exclusion of ' 
"on-bank competitors. But the Board considers it improbable, for 
easons indicated below, that banks1 collective investment funds 
ould enjoy advantages which would exclude others from the business 
establishing and maintaining mutual funds. 
Most of the billions of dollars that are invested annually 
* mutual fund shares are elicited from investors by brokers, dealers 
r salesmen motivated by the commissions to be earned through selling 
ares of 'load" type funds. It is contemplated that banks' managing 
gency funds would be of the "no-load" type, and the history of the 
austry indicates the unlikelihood that such funds would supplant 
eff 
f u n d S t h a t h a v e t h e b e n e f i t s of commission-motivated selling 
sal 
tS* 
a n a l°8° u s situation, in another field, is the limited 
J-es of savings-bank life insurance, which has been available for 
a ^y decades. Despite favorable rates, such insurance has not been 
^serious competitor in the life insurance field, perhaps because of 
e absence of aggressive efforts of agents eager to earn commissions.) 
^rthermore, an important factor affecting sales of mutual fund shares 
their "performance" as measured by capital appreciation (that is, 
crease in the market value of the portfolio), and there is no 
esent reason to believe that banks' collective funds would excel 
°se of their competitors in this respect. 

479 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-5 
In the absence of convincing reasons for barring a segment 
of private enterprise from access to additional fields of activity, 
the Board doubts that such restrictive legislation is desirable. In 
this situation, moreover, participation by banks may yield valuable 
benefits in an industry that attracts the savings of millions of savers 
of limited means. Availability of such bank-operated investment media 
could be of service to those investors by providing (a) a means of per-
forming a traditional banking function more efficiently and at less cost 
(b) more competition for the funds of such investors, and (c) the 
opportunity to combine investment service and special fiduciary services 
when needed (a combination that is often less conveniently available 
when mutual fund shares constitute the investment vehicle). 
To recapitulate, the Board recognizes that the operation of 
collective funds by banks involves elements of risk. This is true, 
however, whenever banks - or other organizations - expand the services 
they offer. If the possibility of adverse consequences, however slight 
°r remote, were regarded as sufficient ground for prohibiting such 
expansion of activities, regulated industries could not adapt to 
changed circumstances and the new needs and demands of our economy. 
In every such situation, the ultimate judgment consists of weighing 
risks against prospective benefits. With respect to the instant 
Proposal, the Board of Governors concludes that the probable benefits 
to the public from increased competition are substantial and that the 
risks are relatively less significant. The Board therefore favors the 
objective of the Amendments to authorize banks to establish and operate 
investment funds substantially similar to conventional mutual funds. 
°ur reasoning and conclusions are also applicable to collective invest-
ment of Smathers-Keogh accounts in banks. 
Assuming that banks are to be permitted to establish collectiv 
funds for managing agcrcy accounts and Smathers-Keogh accounts, we en-
counter the question as to the extent to which the Federal securities 
laws are to apply to the operations of such collective funds, disclosure 
°f information regarding their condition and transactions, and so on. 
Under the proposed Amendments, banks' collective funds for 
managing agency accounts would have the same securities-laws status, 
broadly speaking, as the mutual funds with which they would compete -
that is, they would be subject to those laws, under the administration 
°f the Securities and Exchange Commission, although they would not be 
subject to certain limitations on personnel and affiliations that 
apply to mutual funds sponsored by others. 

4794 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-6-
The situat ion would be otherwise, however, with respect to 
banks1 Smathers-Keogh collective funds. Under the Amendments (§§ 102(a) 
and 103(a)), those funds would be excluded from the definitions of 
"security" in the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, unless there was an affirmative administrative finding 
that a particular situation "requires the protection for investors" 
Provided by those Acts. The Amendments have comparable provisions 
with respect to registration of banks' Smathers-Keogh collective funds 
(§§ 102(b) and 103(b)). Administration of the 1933 and 1934 Acts with 
respect to such funds would be vested in the several Federal bank 
supervisory agencies (§§ 102(c) and 103(c)) instead of in the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, which is charged with general administration 
°f those statutes. 
The Board concurs in the criticisms of these provisions that 
were expressed in the testimony before your Committee of Chairman Cohen 
of the SEC. The exclusion of banks' Smathers-Keogh collective funds 
from the category of "security" seems unjustified for the reasons 
specified by Mr. Cohen, and there appears no sufficient justification 
f°r a general exclusion of those funds from the registration and 
related requirements. 
The Board also does not favor the proposal that the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
ar*d the Board of Governors (1) administer the Securities Act of 1933 
ar*d the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to Smathers-Keogh 
collective funds in the banks they respectively supervise, and (2) 
®cide whether "the protection of investors" requires that some or all 
°f such funds be subjected to those laws. 
A comparable proposal was embodied in the bills H.R. 8499 and 
jj.R. 9410 of the 88th Congress. In testifying on those bills before a 
ut>committee of the House Interstate Commerce Committee in 1964, I 
Pointed out that "the Securities and Exchange Commission, which ad-
lnisters [the Federal securities] laws, has resources of personnel and 
experience, devoted to the administration of those laws, that would be 
ffficult to duplicate." The Board concluded that 
"The proposed exclusion of certain securities from the coverage 
of the securities laws, and the proposed transfer of jurisdiction 
in the securities field from the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission to bank supervisors, would yield no benefits of which we 

47 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-7-
are aware, but on the contrary would be injurious to investors 
and would require the Federal Reserve System and other bank 
supervisors to perform functions that can be more efficiently 
performed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, whose 
facilities are devoted entirely to this complex and important 
subject." 
It is the judgment of the Board that this reasoning is equally valid 
today, and accordingly we recommend that administration of the Federal 
securities laws with respect to banks' collective funds (Smathers-Keogh 
a s well as the managing agency type) remain within the jurisdiction of 
the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The Board favors the treatment of other types of common 
trust funds provided by the Amendment. 
Technical suggestions with respect to the language of 
Amendment No. 438 are being transmitted informally to the staff of 
your Committee. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wn. McC. Martin, Jr. 
