Minutes for 
June 18, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
\J 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
IT Meeting with Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
"•» 0 15 
: 

A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks was held 
in the Board Room of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D.C., 
a t 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday, June 18, 1968 
The purposes of the meeting 
were to continue discussion begun at a similar meeting on May 28, 
1968, of questions raised by the Final Report of the Steering Com-
mittee for the Fundamental Reappraisal of the Discount Mechanism 
and, if possible, Lo reach a decision on procedures for soliciting 
the reactions to the Report of commercial bankers, academicians, 
and other parties who might be interested. 
ixi'(i 
• . 
All of the members of the Board were present, and all of 
the Reserve Bank Presidents except Mr, Hayes and Mr. Galusha 
Treiber, First Vice President, attended from the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, and Mr. Latham, First Vice President of the Boston 
Reserve Bank, attended the meeting with President Ellis 
Members of 
the Board's staff in attendance included Messrs. Holland, Molony, 
F a r r e l l } F. Solomon, Leavitt, Forrestal, and Shull, and Miss Ormsby 
and Mrs. Semia. Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board, also 
a ttended. 
President Clay, as incoming Chairman of the Presidents' 
Conference, read the following summarization of the discussion at 
the previous day's meeting of that group, at which time the question 
o f external distribution of the Steering Committee report had been 
d iscussed: 

O O l t 
6/18/68 
-2-
"Mr. Treiber, on behalf of Mr. Hayes, Chairman, Committee 
°n Discounts and Credits, stated that as a result of the discussions 
by the Presidents of the report of the Steering Committee there 
'•tick 
v.- 
• 
appeared to be general agreement among the Presidents on the pro-
posals for seasonal credit assistance, emergency credit assistance, 
and more frequent changes in the discount rate. 
The considerable 
discussion of the basic borrowing privilege indicated that the 
Privilege would be attractive to the smaller member banks and 
therefore would make System membership more meaningful to them, 
that there would continue to be considerable problems in adminis-
tering the discount window, that it is impossible to predict the 
extent to which open market operations would be made easier or more 
difficult, and that such uncertainty counseled conservatism in 
e stablishing the initial quantitative limitations, continuing 
careful study of the effect of the privilege on open market opera-
tions, and a willingness to make adjustments in the privilege in 
light of experience. 
ray 
"While some thought was expressed in favor of a limited 
distribution of the report at this time to obtain the comments of 
3 Q 1 
selected group of banks, the Conference agreed, upon the recom-
" i 3 M 
, | 
m endation of the Committee on Discounts and Credits, that it wou 
n°
w be appropriate for the report in substantially its present 
to be made public in order to obtain the comments of all 
l nterested persons." 
Id 

6/18/68 
_ 3_ 
President Hickman reported that members of the Cleveland 
Board of Directors, who had received the report and discussed it 
with the Fourth District representative on the Federal Advisory 
Council--a procedure followed in most districts--had found the 
report difficult to understand. He suggested that some rewriting 
tc> simplify and shorten the report would be helpful, although he 
would not favor any lengthy delay while a substantially revised 
r eport was prepared. 
Governor Mitchell, Chairman of the Steering Committee, 
r ePorted that he had had the same impression of confusion on the 
P
art of readers outside the System during the June 4 meeting of 
tlle Federal Advisory Council with the Board, and during discus-
sion with the Board of Directors of the Minneapolis Reserve Bank. 
In 
view of those reactions, he said, the staff was preparing a 
r ather brief press release summarizing the proposals in less 
technical language and presenting the philosophy embodied in 
„ > 
t^e report. This would be released at the time of publication 
o f the report. 
President Coldwell reported that most of the members of the 
D a H a s Board of Directors had commented in writing on the report and 
M i a t the maioritv of the comments had been favorable. At the June 
j 
j 
B°
a r d meeting discussion, however, two somewhat surprising criticisms 
been voiced. The conservative bankers had objected to the Federal 

6/18/68 
-4-
Reserve's apparent intention to liberalize its conservative 
attitude toward lending to member banks by providing essentially 
guaranteed access within the limits of the basic borrowing 
privilege. 
Second, the proposed revision had been characterized 
by 
some as being a tool of the large city banks; this was sur-
prising in view of the more typical attitude, at least within the 
System, that the proposal was heavily weighted in favor of the 
smaller banks. 
President Heflin reported that the reaction of the Richmond 
Board of Directors had been enthusiastic. 
President Ellis reported that the Federal Advisory Council 
member from the First District had obviously been confused about 
the report, based on his discussion with the Boston Board of 
Directors. 
The major difficulty apparently concerned the basic 
borrowing privilege, and President Ellis suggested that this part 
°f the redesign might be described differently, acknowledging in 
s°me way that the big banks would, in fact, generally be limited 
only by the frequency restriction. 
He suggested as one possi-
bility the promulgation of a guideline, to be followed under normal 
circumstances, that a bank be allowed to borrow 50 per cent in 
e*cess of the amount restriction on its basic borrowing privilege 
5 0 Per cent of the time. He expressed the opinion that the report 
a s it was presently written implied that a large bank needing 

6/18/68 
-5-
credit infrequently, but in relatively large amounts, would 
immediately upon borrowing be subjected to some form of adminis-
trative surveillance or action, whereas a similar borrowing 
under present procedures would be unquestioned and virtually 
automatic. He predicted that unless some way were found to 
communicate to the member banks that such borrowings would 
continue to be an expected and unquestioned use of the discount 
window, with as liberal guidelines as currently applied, the 
larger oanks would view the redesign as a restrictive move, a 
faction clearly not desired by the System. 
President Francis reported that, while the St. Louis 
Bank was in complete sympathy with the objectives of the pro-
posal , it continued to question whether the redesign would 
actually be effective in meeting all of those objectives. 
It 
V a s felt that the creation of a basic borrowing privilege 
Providing a limited amount of credit availability would increase 
and accentuate rather than diminish administrative problems. 
Resident Francis suggested that the major difficulties in the 
C u^rent system arose because banks were unsure of the duration 
f o r which they could successfully demand discount credit. He 
therefore suggested that perhaps only a frequency limitation 
need be specified and further suggested that this might be 
accomplished by rewriting the Foreword of Regulation A without 
maJ°r changes in the operations of the discount window. 
S t ) 

6/18/68 
-6-
President Bopp reported that he had heard some comments 
to the effect that the real motivation of the redesign was to 
induce an increasing number of member banks to become indebted 
to the Federal Reserve so that the System could increase its 
administrative control over the banking system, 
Such an inter-
pretation was, of course, totally erroneous and care should be 
taken that the language of the report did not give such an impres-
sion, 
President Bopp noted that he had some clues as to which 
Parts of the report had been so Interpreted, although he had not 
Vet had time to go back and check the actual wording-
President Swan agreed with earlier statements that the 
language of the report was in places difficult for the outsider 
to understand. 
However, he felt that the report, perhaps with 
minor clarifying changes, and the press release referred to 
earlier by Governor Mitchell should be sufficient to make the 
°bjectives and mechanics of the proposal clear. 
President Clay noted that the report necessarily had 
to be a technically oriented document. 
He suggested that the 
c°nfusion among members of the Boards of Directors may have 
b e e n most prevalent among the non-banker members and noted that 
t h e distribution now contemplated, while not limited to bankers, 
W a s aimed primarily at them. 

6/18/68 
_ 7-
President Kimbrel reported that the Board of Directors 
°f the Atlanta Bank favored early distribution. Their chief 
motivation was a desire to obtain the reactions of small banks, 
since they felt it would otherwise be impossible to predict 
whether those bankers would actually respond to the change by 
increasing the frequency with which they came to the discount 
window. 
President Scanlon opposed making any material changes 
in the wording of the report at this stage. However, he noted 
I r i » . 
that, while the proposal was in many ways geared to the smaller 
hanks, it could only be successful if it were also accepted by 
fche large banks. He observed that if the report was to be a 
satisfactory document for these banks the objectives of the 
Proposal (chiefly the fact that credit would continue to be 
Mailable on request in excess of the amount limitation on the 
^
a s i c borrowing privilege to meet reasonable needs) must be 
m a d e clear. 
Chairman Martin concluded the meeting by saying that 
light of the recommendation of the Conference of Presidents 
nc* the general tenor of today's discussion the staff would 
P
r°ceed with the necessary steps looking toward publication of 
the 
report. He suggested that any proposed changes in wording 
b e 
sent to Mr. Holland. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
