Minutes for November 27, 1968 
To: 
Members of thfe Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the S ecretary s Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
/ 

4089 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, November 27, 1968. The Board met in the 
Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Keir and Shull, Assistant Advisers, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons and Reynolds, Associate 
Directors, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson and Miss Hart, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 

4090 
11/27/68 
-2-
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Doyle, Heyde, Lynch, Mertz, Noble, 
Plotkin, and Sanders of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Burton, Goodfellow, Kline, 
McAninch, and Ponczka of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Higgins and Veenstra of the Division 
of Data Processing 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under 
the respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to The White House stating that the Board 
1 
has no recommendations for legislative proposals 
for Presidential submission at the opening of the 
new session of the Congress or for material to be 
included in the President's State of the Union 
Address. 
Letters (1) to the Chief Federal Reserve Examiner 
2-3 
and (2) to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
Banks regarding the appropriateness of Reserve 
Bank expenditures for catering services in certain 
circumstances. 
Reporting requirements for Swiss branch (Item No. 4). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated November 6, 1968, from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Legal Division regard-
ing reporting requirements for a proposed branch of Morgan Guaranty 
Trust Company, New York, New York, in Zurich, Switzerland, establish-
m ent of which was approved by the Board in May 1968. The Swiss Federal 

4091 
11/27/68 
-3-
Banking Commission had requested a confirmation regarding the Board's 
reporting requirements for the branch similar to that supplied by the 
Comptroller of the Currency with respect to the Swiss branches of two 
national banks. It was understood that the Swiss authorities would 
complete their processing of the branch application only after receipt 
of the confirmation. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to Morgan 
Guaranty, which would "confirm that any reporting requirements of the 
Board applicable to a branch of your bank operating in Switzerland are 
made subject to the assumption that the branch will furnish only such 
information as it is permitted to furnish by the laws of Switzerland." 
An opinion of the Swiss counsel for Morgan Guaranty relating 
to Swiss banking secrecy and other rules of Swiss law stated in part: 
Neither a bank nor its officers may disclose to the public 
any information relating to the affairs of the bank's clients. 
The above provision does not apply to disclosure of the 
affairs of the bank itself, including statistical data, so 
long as such information does not permit conclusions to be 
drawn with respect to the affairs of specific clients. 
Information may be given by a branch to its head office, 
provided that the head office may in no case disclose this 
information to the public. 
The memorandum discussed various aspects of the situation 
^earing upon the Board's authority to require reports regarding foreign 
^ranches. Certain alternatives were mentioned, although not recom-
mended, under which attention would be called to the Board's statutory 

r*.\«y 
11/27/68 
-4-
authority to require reports of condition and of examination of for-
eign branches of State member banks, explain that in practice the 
Board relied on records maintained at head offices regarding a bank's 
foreign branches, but note that there might be instances in which the 
Board would consider it necessary to resort to its statutory authority, 
It was brought out that in granting permission for the establishment 
of a foreign branch the Board must be deemed to have recognized that 
the branch's operations would be conducted subject to all applicable 
statutory and regulatory requirements of the host country, including 
any requirements restricting the disclosure of information. The 
critical question appeared to be whether, if such foreign laws and 
regulations in a given instance might frustrate necessary and appro-
priate bank supervision in the U.S., the establishment of the branch 
ought not be permitted or previously granted permission should be 
revoked. It was believed that if a confirmation such as stated in 
the draft letter were later asserted to be a waiver of the Board's 
statutory authority, such contention would not be sustained as a 
matter of law. 
Governor Mitchell said it was not clear to him why there was 
any problem if only disclosure to the public was in question. The 
Board would have no intention of disclosing information regarding the 
°Perations of the branch to the public. 
Mr. Shay expressed the view that as a practical matter the 
Problem was probably not as important as the memorandum might suggest. 
4 

4093 
11/27/68 
-5-
The Comptroller had apparently had no trouble in getting adequate 
information with respect to the Swiss branches of two national banks. 
Although national bank examiners were not sent to Switzerland, when 
they examined the head offices of the two banks they had access to 
copies of audit reports made by Swiss auditors. The Swiss put a 
great deal of reliance on independent outside auditing firms; the 
audit report in effect was an examination report, the notable omission 
being the names of individuals. The only way to obtain identification 
of a line of credit that might be considered excessive, for example, 
was for the bank customer to sign a waiver of secrecy. 
Governor Daane commented that it seemed to him that prohibition 
°f public disclosure and of disclosure of the affairs of particular 
bank customers would not interfere with the branch's furnishing infor-
mation to Federal Reserve examiners through the bank's head office. 
Mr. Shay replied that the word "public" apparently should be 
understood to include the Federal Reserve or any other bank supervisory 
authority in the U.S. The attitude of the Swiss authorities in regard 
to disclosure, understood in this sense, was so strong that there was 
some likelihood that any branch not conforming to its policy might be 
closed. 
In further discussion, agreement was reached with a suggestion 
by Governor Robertson for revised wording in the letter. 
The let ter was then approved unanimously in the form attached 
a s Item No. 4. 

4094 
11/27/68 
-6-
Application of First Wisconsin Bankshares (Items 5-8). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's action on September 24, 1968, denying the application of First 
Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of First Wisconsin National 
Bank of Greenfield, Greenfield, Wisconsin, a proposed new bank. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are 
attached as Items 5 and 6. Copies of the dissenting statements of 
Governors Mitchell and Daane are attached as Items 7 and 8, respectively. 
Bank holding company applications. The following bank holding 
company applications were approved unanimously after consideration of 
background information that had been made available to the Board, 
including in each case a favorable staff recommendation: 
Application of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, 
Columbus, Ohio, to acquire 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of The Farmers Bank of Ashland, 
Ashland, Ohio. 
Application of First Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, 
Wisconsin, to acquire 80 per cent or more of the vot-
ing shares of New Berlin State Bank, New Berlin, 
Wisconsin. 
It was understood that an order and statement regarding each 
°f these decisions would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Application of First Bank System. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated November 15, 1968, from the Division of Supervision 

4095 
11/27/68 
-7-
and Regulation, with other pertinent papers, relating to the applica-
tion of First Bank System, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire 
all of the outstanding voting shares (except directors1 qualifying 
shares) of First Plymouth National Bank, Minneapolis, Minnesota, a 
proposed new bank. 
The Division recommended approval, as had President Galusha 
on behalf of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. The Reserve 
Bank's Examinations Department recommended denial, and its Research 
Department made no recommendation but took the view that an adverse 
competitive effect was probable. 
The new bank was to be established in a ghetto area of 
Minneapolis now served by two branches of the applicant's lead bank, 
Urst Nat ional Bank of Minneapolis, and a branch of Northwestern 
National Bank, the lead bank of Northwest Bancorporation. The branch 
°f Northwestern National and one of the branches of First National 
Bank were to be relocated away from the principal service area pro-
posed for the new bank. The remaining branch of First National Bank 
was said to have been unable to establish meaningful relations with 
the black community. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation, feeling that the 
information originally submitted with the application was insufficient, 
had arranged a meeting of the Board's staff with representatives of 
the applicant and of the Reserve Bank on October 7, 1968,'and the 

4096 
11/27/68 
-8-
Division's background memorandum was based on the transcript of that 
meeting as well as on the material previously submitted. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had had rather extensive 
conversations about the case. He was troubled only by the apparent 
lack of perception, on the part of the Examinations Department of the 
Reserve Bank. In his opinion the prospect of other banks moving into 
the area was remote; the smaller banks had shown no interest over the 
years. The ratio of population to banking office was unusually high 
and would be higher after the relocation of two of the three branches 
now in the area. The proposed bank was supported by the local business 
community, and he applauded the efforts of the proponents. He hoped 
that the flavor of the analysis by the Banking Markets Section would 
he reflected in the Board's statement. 
Governor Robertson expressed interest in having the Board's 
statement drafted carefully. If a special factor—contribution to the 
well-being of a blighted area--had not been present there would have 
heen insufficient support for approval. But whenever such a factor 
was present, the effort should be encouraged. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement reflecting this decision would be 
Prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Research requiring condition and earnings data. There had 
heen distributed a memorandum dated November 20, 1968, from Mr. Langham 

11/27/68 
-9-
regarding a request by Mr. Mann, Vice President and General Economist 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, that the Board review a 
research proposal received from Mrs. Lucille S. Mayne, Assistant 
Professor of Finance at Pennsylvania State University. Mrs. Mayne 
hoped to compare standards of capital adequacy among the three Federal 
bank supervisory agencies, and for that purpose had requested certain 
data from call reports and earnings reports from 1961 through 1967 
for approximately 490 insured commercial banks in Ohio, as well as 
other related information. 
Although identification of information for individual banks 
would be difficult and costly, it could be accomplished from the 
requested figures. The proposal contemplated that the Cleveland 
Reserve Bank would perform the programming and computer processing 
required, and that the data would then be furnished to Mrs. Mayne on 
magnetic tape for her further use, presumably on a computer at 
Pennsylvania State University. The project apparently would be carried 
out in accordance with high academic standards. However, because of 
difficulties of monitoring the use of the data to insure that confi-
dentiality would not be violated, based on experience with a somewhat 
similar situation at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Mr. Langham 
recommended that the request in its present form not be approved. 
Several precedents in support of that position were cited. Attached 
to the memorandum was a draft letter couched in terms of denial, 

40 9S 
11/27/68 
-10-
although with indication that the Board would reconsider the matter if 
appropriate plans for safeguarding confidentiality could be developed. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the terms of the 
proposed reply were rather harsh. It appeared that the project was 
one that might add to the System's knowledge and that cooperation 
should be extended if satisfactory arrangements could be devised. 
Governor Daane also expressed interest in finding a way to 
accommodate the project without endangering the confidentiality of 
individual bank data. If there was no question of Mrs. Mayne's creden-
tials, and apparently there was not, he believed that the draft letter 
suggested too abrupt a rejection of what might be a valuable piece of 
research. 
Mr. Langham verified that the only concern was with regard to 
uncontrolled use of the data. 
Governors Mitchell and Daane then suggested the possibility 
of establishing some relationship such as a consultant arrangement 
between the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and Mrs. Mayne in order 
that the project could go forward. 
It was brought out that the Federal Reserve also had an obliga-
tion to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which made data 
regarding insured nonmember banks available to the System with the 
understanding that confidentiality would be preserved, but that the 
Corporation was understood to use arrangements such as a consultant 
relationship to accommodate scholarly research. 

4093 
11/27/68 
-11-
Mr. Cardon suggested that thought should be given to problems 
involved in getting ii;to a posture in which data that might be denied 
to a Congressional committee would be made available to individuals in 
the interests of scholarly research. 
At the conclusion of the discussion there was unanimous agree-
ment with a suggestion by Chairman Martin that Governors Mitchell and 
Daane explore the feasibility of alternative arrangements under which 
the Mayne project could be accommodated. 
Request for Nevada deposit data (Item No. 9). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated November 21, 1968, from Mr. Langham 
regarding a request by Oscar R. Goodman, Professor of Finance, 
Roosevelt University, Chicago, Illinois, for selected deposit data 
for Nevada, by individual banks and by counties, as of several dates. 
The immediate question presented to the Board related only to bank and 
branch deposit figures for mid-year 1964. Population and banking 
office patterns were such that response to Professor Goodman's request 
would identify deposit data of individual banking offices in seven 
instances beyond the identifications possible through the publication 
of the 1964 issue of "Distribution of Bank Deposits by Counties and 
Standard Metropolitan Areas." 
In telephone conversations with members of the Board's staff 
Professor Goodman had stated that he was representing a bank in a 
"bank merger case," and his letter confirming his request indicated 

. 4100 
11/27/68 
-12-
that he was "making a study of the state in relation to a bank merger 
case . . 
It appeared, nevertheless, that his study might be solely 
for academic research purposes. 
The memorandum set forth background information, including 
statements made to responding banks in 1962 regarding the use that 
would be made of the branch deposit data. One such statement indicated 
that the information was being collected with the understanding that 
it would be considered public information with respect to applications 
for mergers or branches or applications under the Banking Holding Com-
pany Act. 
Mr. Langham recommended, on the basis of available information 
from Professor Goodman, that the request not be approved. He further 
recommended that Professor Goodman be informed that if in fact he was 
representing a prospective bank merger applicant, and if his principal 
would write to the Board stating that it was preparing a merger appli-
cation and needed the detailed Nevada figures for that purpose only, 
the request would be reconsidered. A draft of letter to Professor 
Goodman was attached. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the data probably 
were being requested in connection with the defense of an antitrust 
Proceeding the Department of Justice had instituted in Nevada to block 
a proposed merger. He was not sure what policy should be followed with 
regard to supplying such data for use in those circumstances, but in 

4101 
11/27/68 
-13-
any event it seemed desirable that the real purpose behind the request 
first be made known. 
Governor Brimmer commented that it seemed clear that if a 
merger applicant had anticipated the usefulness of such information 
and had requested it for use in preparing an application, the Board 
would have supplied the data. 
There was agreement that Professor Goodman should be asked to 
verify the purpose for which the data were requested by having his 
principal make a direct request, and that if the Board should sub-
sequently agree to supply the information the Department of Justice 
should be so informed in order that, if that fact had a bearing upon 
its antitrust proceeding in Nevada, all parties to the proceeding 
would have access to the figures. 
The letter was then approved unanimously in the form attached 
as Item No. 9. 
Exemption for third market makers. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from the Divisions of Supervision and Regulation and 
Research and Statistics dated November 19, 1968, regarding requests 
by Mr. Emil Pattberg, Jr., Chairman of First Boston Corporation, that 
the Board grant an exemption from margin requirements to firms making 
third markets in registered stocks, similar to the exemption now avail-
able under Regulation U (Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing 
or Carrying Registered Stocks) to specialists on the New York Stock 

4102: 
11/27/68 
-14-
Exchange. Recommendations regarding his original request, made in 
1967, had been delayed pending receipt of comments from the New York 
Reserve Bank and resolution of the question of granting an exemption 
from margin requirements for market makers in convertible securities. 
Study of the latter question had resulted in a conclusion that it was 
not practical to grant an exemption. 
The memorandum set forth background information and noted that 
although it would seem preferable to defer questions relating to the 
need for exempt credit for market making functions until there could 
be a study in depth of this aspect to the securities markets, it did 
not seem feasible to commit the Board to such a study in the near 
future. Neither did it seem fair to defer consideration of Mr. 
Pattberg's request indefinitely. Accordingly, the staff recommended 
sending him a letter along the lines of an attached draft. The letter 
would state that in the light of experience in regard to market makers 
in convertibles it would not appear appropriate at this time to grant 
an exemption such as he had requested, but the letter would suggest 
that the industry might wish to submit statistical and other data in 
support of granting an exemption. The staff further proposed that a 
System committee be formed to study the issues involved in the possible 
extension of exempt credit to market makers in the third market. 
Today's discussion began with comments regarding the feasi-
bility of a study in depth and the reasons for the negative attitude 

4103 
11/27/68 
-15-
of the New York Reserve Bank toward granting an exemption such as 
Mr. Pattberg had requested, the principal one being that the Bank 
felt it would have difficulty in supervising an exemption. 
Mr. Solomon observed that the question was complex and would 
require extensive analysis. 
The proposed reply to Mr. Pattberg was 
brought to the Board at the present time, however, because he had 
been insistent upon receiving a reply. 
The New York Reserve Bank had 
been of the opinion that it should be in the nature of a denial, but 
the proposed reply held open the door to submission of further infor-
mation or proposals. 
Several members of the Board, including Governors Mitchell and 
Daane, expressed the view that the letter, as drafted, was written 
in too negative a vein. 
Mr. Partee then described a recent conversation he had had 
with Mr. Pattberg, during which the latter had asked if he might come 
personally to discuss the matter with the Board. 
Miss Hart commented 
on the interest expressed by other representatives of the securities 
industry, and mentioned that the view of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission's staff was that third market makers were performing an 
important function. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that since it appeared that 
there was a strong element of public interest in having certain types 
of firms in the market, the Board should not take the attitude that 
its regulations were a closed subject. 

4104 
11/27/68 
-16-
Governor Brimmer suggested that the Board was too prone to 
deal with the public by saying that questions at issue were being 
studied. He suggested that the Board call in industry representatives 
to confer not only with respect to the present question but also regard-
ing the exemption expected to be necessary for market makers in over-
the-counter securities. He believed that the public relations problem 
could be minimized by explaining to the industry what the Board was 
doing. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that arrange-
ments would be made for a visit by Mr. Pattberg, as well as other 
industry representatives who might be interested, to meet with the 
staff and such members of the Board as were available for further 
exploration of possible solutions to the problem. 
Stock option plan question (Item No. 10). Vice President 
Huning of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland had submitted to the 
Board a question regarding the possible applicability of the Board's 
Regulation G, Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers 
-
for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities, 
and Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or 
Carrying Registered Stocks, to certain loans by National City Bank of 
Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio, to employees of Hanna Mining Company. 
Under the stock option plan of Hanna Mining Company an officer or 
i 
employee would obtain a loan for the purchase price of the stock by 

4105 
11/27/68 
-17-
executing an unsecured note to National City Bank of Cleveland. The 
company would issue to the bank a guaranty of the loan and hold the 
purchased shares as collateral to secure it against loss on the 
guaranty. Stock of Hanna Mining Company was registered on a national 
securities exchange. It was understood that the amount of the loans 
by the bank exceeded the maximum loan value of the stock pledged with 
Hanna Mining Company under the current supplements to Regulations G 
and U. 
There had now been distributed, with a memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated November 21, 1968, a 
draft of reply to Mr. Huning that would take the position that Regula-
tions G and U were applicable to the transactions in question and that 
under the regulations National City Bank of Cleveland could not arrange 
for guarantees in excess of the maximum loan value of the stock pledged 
to secure the guarantees. 
In reply to a question, Miss Hart explained that the position 
taken in the proposed letter was believed warranted in order to avoid 
a substantial loophole in the regulations, the nature of which she 
described. 
Governor Maisel then expressed the view that a matter of this 
kind should be looked at in terms of policy objectives. It seemed to 
him that if the Board had seen fit to allow exercise of stock options 
through credit, and if the plan used in the present instance was a 

11/27/68 
-18-
logical and efficient one, an effort should be made to accommodate it 
under the regulations,, with whatever limitations were necessary to 
preserve the Board's objectives. 
Further discussion brought out that there were certain alter-
natives available that would be permissible under the regulations, and 
it was agreed that the letter should be expanded to describe those 
alternatives. Accordingly, approval was given to the sending of a 
letter in the form attached as Item No. 10. It was understood that 
an interpretation based thereon would be published in the Federal 
Register. 
Holding of political or public office (Item No. 11). At its 
meeting on October 11, 1968, the Board requested the staff to prepare 
a statement explaining the Board's policy as to the holding of politi-
cal or public office and participation in political activities by 
directors, officers, and employees of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Accordingly, there had been distributed a memorandum from the Office 
of the Secretary dated October 29 submitting a draft of letter to the 
Chairmen and Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks, prepared by Mr. 
Hackley, that would supersede a number of letters issued in recent 
years interpreting the Board's resolution originally adopted on 
December 23, 1915, on the subject of holding political or public office. 
A revised draft of letter also had been distributed under date of 
November 6, 1968. 

4107 
11/27/68 
- 1 9 -
Th e memorandum also set forth information bearing upon the 
question whether the pplicy should be applied also to members of the 
Federal Advisory Council. The view was expressed that unless the 
Board felt that the past practice of not applying the policy to 
Council members had been in error, it would seem unnecessary to make 
any change in the coverage of the 1915 resolution. 
The letter in the form of the November 6 draft was approved 
unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 11. There was agreement 
with a suggestion that the letter be furnished to new directors of 
Fede ral Reserve Banks and branches for their guidance. 
Advertising rules. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated November 8, 1968, from the Legal Division describing interagency 
staff conferences looking toward implementation of the recent interest 
rate legislation under which the Board and the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation were given permanent authority (and the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board temporary authority) to prescribe regulations governing 
advertising and other matters relating to interest on deposits. The 
memorandum discussed various issues involved, including the relative 
merits of using a regulation or an interagency statment of policy. 
Attached was a draft of proposed rule making designed for the following 
purposes: 
(1) To consolidate the Board's rules governing advertising 
of interest on deposits in one new section of Regulation Q, 
Payment of Interest on Deposits; 

lies 
11/27/68 
-20-
(2) To add a new rule relating to the advertising of 
interest on deposits under which a member bank would be 
prohibited from advertising an effective average yield 
on a deposit; 
(3) To extend the authority of a member bank to pay 
interest at the maximum permissible rate on funds for 
periods when they are not on deposit with the bank 
(grace periods) to time deposits; 
(4) To limit the use of grace periods for banks paying 
interest at less than the maximum permissible rate to the 
grace periods authorized for banks paying the maximum; and 
(5) To eliminate an unnecessary section of the regulation 
relating to continuance of time deposit status. 
It was recommended that the Board present such a proposal to the other 
agencies at the level of the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation 
in order to expedite resolution of the issues involved. 
Governor Mitchell referred to a passage in the memorandum 
indicating that, with respect to the question of advertising interest 
rates, the following language developed by the Board's staff had served 
as the basis of interagency discussion: 
"Interest or dividend rates should be stated in terms 
of the annual interest rate, and the advertisement should 
state whether earnings are compounded and, if so, the basis 
of compounding. 
If the effective rate of interest is stated, 
the rate of simple interest should be presented with equal 
prominence. No advertisement should include any indication 
of the total percentage return if held to final maturity 
exceeding one year, or the average annual rate achieved by 
compounding over a period of more than one year." 
Governor Mitchell emphasized his desire to see that policy written into 
the regulations and questioned whether the draft did in fact incorpo-
rate the policy. Mr. Sanders replied that he thought the substance 

. 4108 
11/27/68 
-21-
was incorporated, although the form was somewhat different. Governor 
Mitchell said he would not be willing to depart to any significant 
extent from that statement of policy, which he thought represented a 
correct posture. 
The discussion also included comments on the likelihood of 
being able to arrive at interagency agreement, the desirability of 
which was noted. There was general satisfaction with the substance 
of the proposed regulations, and Board members expressed themselves 
in favor of the adoption of regulations as opposed to the issuance of 
a statement of policy. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
draft of rule making would be used as a basis for discussion by 
Governor Robertson with the Coordinating Committee. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Director appointments. The following actions were taken with 
respect to the appointment of Chairmen, Deputy Chairmen, and Class C 
directors at Federal Reserve Banks and the appointment of directors at 
Federal Reserve Bank branches, with the understanding that advice of 
the appointments would be sent to the respective appointees at an 
appropriate time and that public announcement would be made near the 
end of the year in accordance with the usual practice: 

4110 
11/27/68 
-22-
The following were reappointed as Class C directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks indicated, each for a three-year term 
beginning January. 1, 1969: 
Name 
Bank 
D. Robert Yarnall, Jr. 
Wilson H. Elkins 
Edwin I. Hatch 
Frederic M. Peirce 
Robert F. Leach 
Bernard T. Rocca, Jr. 
Philadelphia 
Richmond 
Atlanta 
St. Louis 
Minneapolis 
San Francisco 
The following were reappointed as directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank branches indicated, each for a three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1969: 
Name 
Branch 
Norman F. Beach 
Graham E. Marx 
John L. Fraley 
Eugene C. Gwaltney, Jr.—/ 
Castle W. Jordan 
Frank G. Smith, Jr. 
Joseph M. Ray 
R. M. Buckley 
Francis B. May 
J. L. Atwood 
Buffalo 
Cincinnati 
Charlotte 
Birmingham 
Jacksonville 
New Orleans 
El Paso 
Houston 
San Antonio 
Los Angeles 
The following were reappointed as directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank branches indicated, each for a two-year term 
beginning January 1, 1969: 
Name 
Branch 
D. R. C. Brown 
F. W. Zaloudek 
Henry Y. Kleinkauf 
Robert F. Dwyer 
Peter E. Marble 
Denver 
Oklahoma City 
Omaha 
Portland 
Salt Lake City 
1./ It subsequently developed that Mr. Gwaltney was unable to accept 
reappointment. 

4111 
11/27/68 
-23-
The following were designated as Chairmen and Federal Reserve 
Agents of the Federal Reserve Banks indicated for the year 
1969, with compensation fixed at an amount equal to the fees 
that would be payable to any other director of the same Bank 
for equivalent time and attendance to official business: 
Name 
Bank 
Howard W, 
. Johnson 
Boston 
Willis J, 
. Winn 
Philadelphia 
Albert G, 
, Clay 
Cleveland 
Wilson H. 
. Elkins 
Richmond 
Edwin I. Hatch 
Atlanta 
Franklin J. Lunding 
Chicago 
Frederic M. Peirce 
St. Louis 
Robert F. Leach 
Minneapolis 
Dolph Simons 
Kansas City 
Carl J. Thornsen 
Dallas 
0. Meredith Wilson 
San Francisco 
The following were appointed as Deputy Chairmen of the Federal 
Reserve Banks indicated for the year 1969: 
Name 
Bank 
John M. Fox 
Boston 
James M. Hester 
New York 
Bayard L. England 
Philadelphia 
J. Ward Keener 
Cleveland 
Robert W. Lawson, Jr. 
Richmond 
John C. Wilson 
Atlanta 
Emerson G. Higdon 
Chicago 
Smith D. Broadbent, Jr. 
St. Louis 
Willard D. Hosford, Jr. 
Kansas City 
Max Levine 
Dallas 
S. Alfred Halgren 
San Francisco 
It was agreed to ascertain through the Chairmen of the appro-
priate Fede ral Reserve Banks whether the following persons would 
accept appointment if tendered as Reserve Bank or branch directors for 
the terms indicated, with the understanding that if it were found that 
they would accept, the appointments would be made: 

4112 
11/27/68 
-24-
James S. Duesenberry, Professor of Economics, Harvard Univer-
sity, Cambridge, Massachusetts, as a Class C director of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston for the three-year term begin-
ning January 1, 1969. 
Albert L. Nickerson, Chairman of the Board, Mobil Oil Corpora-
tion, New York, New York, as a Class C director of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York for the unexpired portion of the three-
year term ending December 31, 1969, such unexpired portion to 
begin January 1, 1969, with the understanding that if Mr. 
Nickerson accepted the appointment he would be designated as 
Chairman and Federal Reserve Agent of the New York Bank for 
the year 1969. 
Roswell L. Gilpatric, Partner, Cravath, Swaine & Moore, New 
York, New York, as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York for the three-year term beginning January 1, 
1969. 
Richard M. Cyert, Dean, Graduate School of Industrial Adminis-
tration, Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
as a director of the Pittsburgh Branch of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland for the three-year term beginning January 1, 
1969. 
Edward J. Boling, Vice President for Development and Adminis-
tration, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee, as a 
director of the Nashville Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Atlanta for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1969. 
William H. Franklin, President, Caterpillar Tractor Company, 
Peoria, Illinois, as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago for the three-year term beginning January 1, 
1969. 
Sam Cooper, President, HumKo Products Division of National 
Dairy Products Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, as a Class 
C director of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis for the 
unexpired portion of the three-year term ending December 31, 
1969, such unexpired portion to begin January 1, 1969. 
C. Whitney Brown, President, S. C. Toof & Company, Memphis, 
Tennessee, as a director of the Memphis Branch of the Federal 
Re serve Bank of St. Louis for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 1969. 

4113 
11/27/68 
-25-
David M. Lilly, Chairman of the Board, Toro Manufacturing 
Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, as a Class C director 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis for the unexpired 
portion of the three-year term ending December 31, 1969, 
such unexpired portion to begin January 1, 1969, with the 
understanding that if Mr. Lilly accepted the appointment he 
would also be appointed Deputy Chairman of the Minneapolis 
Bank for the year 1969. 
Warren B. Jones, Secretary-Treasurer, Two Dot Land & Live-
stock Co., Harlowton, Montana, as a director of the Helena 
Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis for the 
two-year term beginning January 1, 1969. 
Clifford Morris Hardin, Chancellor, University of Nebraska 
at Lincoln, Lincoln, Nebraska, as a Class C director of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City for the three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1969. 
C. Henry Bacon, Jr., President, Simpson Timber Company, 
Seattle, Washington, as a director of the Seattle Branch of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for the two-year 
term beginning January 1, 1969. 
Secretary's Note: It subsequently developed 
that Dr. Hardin would be unable to accept the 
appointment. It having been ascertained that 
acceptances would be forthcoming, appointment 
telegrams were sent to the other persons listed. 
Board staff. Governor Sherrill stated that he had reviewed 
certain recommendations that had been made relative to the staffing 
of the Division of International Finance. These included the appoint-
ment of Bernard Norwood (on loan from the Department of State on a 
reimbursable basis) as Adviser, the appointment of Robert F. Gemmill 
and Samuel Pizer as Associate Advisers, and the appointment of Murray 
Altmann as Senior Economist (a non-officer position). It had also 
been recommended that the Special Studies and Operations Section be 
split into a Special Studies Section and a Balance of Payments Section. 

4114 
11/27/68 
-26-
Governor Sherrill said that he found no objection to the 
recommendations and that he understood all members of the Board were 
now satisfied. 
Accordingly, the recommendations were approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that matters of implementation such as salary 
rates and effective dates, were referred to Governor Sherrill with 
power to act. 
Secretary's Note: The appointment of Mr. 
Norwood was made effective December 2, 1968; 
the appointments of Mr. Gemmill and Mr. Pizer 
were made effective January 1, 1969, and their 
annual salaries were fixed at $24,000 and 
$25,500, respectively, effective that date; 
and the reorganization creating the two new 
sections was made effective January 1, 1969. 
Atlanta Reserve Bank (Item No. 12). Reference was made to a 
meeting that the members of the Board's Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans, plus Governor Sherrill, had had with 
President Kimbrel of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. While the 
main purpose of the meeting was to discuss recommendations for officer 
salaries for 1969, the occasion had been taken to raise with President 
Kimbrel questions concerning evaluation of official staff, why several 
younger officers had left the Bank during the past year, and the nature 
°f reassignments of officers that had been made or were contemplated. 
A view was expressed to President Kimbrel that leadership at the level 
°f First Vice President more vigorous than apparently could be provided 
by the incumbent was needed. 

. jt — < J 
11/27/68 
-27-
The report on the meeting was supplemented by comments by 
Governor Sherrill regarding conferences that he had had with President 
Kimbrel and others at the Reserve Bank. Governor Sherrill concurred 
in the view that a change was needed at the First Vice President level, 
but he felt that in other respects the situation was fairly promising 
and that the Bank had quite a good pool of talented younger men. He 
believed that the meeting of the Board's Committee with Mr. Kimbrel 
had been helpful. 
Unanimous approval then was given to a letter to the Atlanta 
Bank interposing no objection to the appointment of Arthur H. Kantner 
as Vice President and Manager of the New Orleans Branch effective 
December 1, 1968, or to the appointment of George C. Guynn as Assistant 
Vice President of the Branch effective January 1, 1969, with salary at 
the current rate in each case. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 12. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

4 1 1 6 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R 5 
I t e m No. 
1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/27/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
November 29, 1968. 
Mr. Joseph A. Califano, Jr., 
Special Assistant to the President, 
The White House, 
Washington, D. C. 20501 
Dear Mr. Califano: 
This is in response to the President's mem-
orandum of November 18, 1968, concerning legislative 
proposals for Presidential submission at the opening of 
the new session of the Congress and for material for 
inclusion in the forthcoming State of the Union Address. 
The Board of Governors has no recommendations 
to submit on these matters. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Fr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

411' 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 11 
11/2/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 27, 1968. 
Mr. Lloyd M. Schaeffer, 
Chief Federal Reserve Examiner, 
Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations, 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 
20551 
Dear Mr. Schaeffer: 
This is in response to your request for guidance 
concerning the appropriateness of Reserve Bank expenses for 
catering services in connection with the entertainment of 
official Bank guests in the homes of Reserve Bank officials. 
The Board has considered this matter and feels that there are 
occasions when it would be appropriate for the Reserve Banks 
to incur such expenses. However, they should be carefully 
scrutinized and should bear a reasonable relationship to the 
costs that would be incurred if the official guests were 
entertained elsewhere. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4118 
... 
\i 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
11/27/68 
S-2070 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 29, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
A question has arisen concerning the appropriateness 
of Reserve Bank expenses for outside catering services in 
connection with the entertainment of official Bank guests in 
the homes of Reserve Bank officials. 
The Board has considered this matter and feels there 
are occasions when it would be appropriate for the Reserve Banks 
to incur such expenses. However, they should be carefully 
scrutinized and should bear a reasonable relationship to the 
costs that would be incurred if the official guests were 
entertained elsewhere. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
jl','4; 

OfGOv'.. 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 11 
11/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 27, 1968 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
This will confirm that any reporting requirements 
of the Board applicable to a branch of your bank operating 
in Switzerland will not oblige the branch to furnish to the 
public any information relating to the affairs of the bank's 
clients that it is not permitted to furnish by the laws of 
Switzerland. 
This letter may be shown to the Swiss Federal 
Banking Commission in connection with the establishment by 
your bank of a branch in Zurich. 
Very truly yours, 
V • .. < 
. 
. . . . 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
! 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
First Wisconsin National Bank of 
' 
Greenfield, Greenfield, Wisconsin, a 
' 
proposed new bank. 
1 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Wisconsin Bankshares Cor-
poration, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of First 
Wisconsin National Bank of Greenfield, Greenfield, Wisconsin, a 
proposed new bank. 
Aa required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 
Item No. 11 
11/33/68 
SYSTEM 

4121 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on May 17, 1968 (33 Federal Register 7338), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit com-
ments and views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy 
of the application was forwarded to the United States Department of 
Justice for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views 
has expired and all those received have been considered by the 
Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and 
hereby is denied. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 27th day of November, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 11 
11/6/68 
APPLICATION BY FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FIRST WISCONSIN NATIONAL BANK OF GREENFIELD 
STATEMENT 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of First 
Wisconsin National Bank of Greenfield, Greenfield, Wisconsin ("Bank"), 
a proposed new bank, 
1/ 
Applicant controls 12 banks 
with total deposits of $1.3 
2/ 
billion as of December 31, 1967. 
Applicant estimates that Bank 
will have $3.9 million deposits after three years of operation. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1./ Includes First Northwestern National Bank of Milwaukee, a proposed 
new bank, the acquisition of which was approved by the Board on 
July 2, 1968. 
Z./ All banking data are as of this date unless otherwise noted. 

4123 
-2-
of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or con-
spiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of 
banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve 
a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the 
country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to 
create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint 
of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of 
the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest 
by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served. In each case the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Wisconsin, of which 6 are bank holding 
3/ 
companies, 
control $3.1 billion of deposits, or 39.3 per cent of 
the total deposits held by all insured commercial banks in the State. 
3/ Includes First Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, which became a 
bank holding company on April 10, 1968. 

. 4124 
-3-
Applicant, the largest banking organization in the State, controls 
about 17 per cent of such deposits. 
The Milwaukee Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA") 
includes Milwaukee County and three other counties. The 3 largest 
banking organizations in this area, all of which are Milwaukee-based 
bank holding companies, control about 65 per cent of the total deposits 
in the SMSA and about 73 per cent of the deposits in Milwaukee County. 
Subsidiaries of Applicant control 34 per cent of the deposits in the 
SMSA and 38 per cent of the deposits in Milwaukee County. 
It is anticip ated by Applicant that Bank will serve an area 
of about 4.5 square miles in southwestern Milwaukee County, about nine 
miles from the central financial area of the City of Milwaukee. The 
population of this area, presently 10,600, is expected to increase by 
about 50 per cent by 1980, and business growth of the area is expected 
to be even more rapid. There is now being developed immediately adjacent 
to Bank's proposed site a shopping center which, when completed in 1970, 
will be the largest in the State of Wisconsin and is expected to attract 
shoppers from the entire southwest section of the county. Only one 
banking office, a branch of Layton Park State Bank, Milwaukee (total 
deposits of $22 million), is located within the area designated by 
Applicant as the area to be served by Bank. Eight other banks, all 
located within nine miles of Bank's site, are regarded as competing 
significantly within the area. Included among the eight are Applicant's 

a A * >r-
^tJl^O 
-4-
largest subsidiary bartk, First Wisconsin National Bank of Milwuakee, 
which has three offices located from two and one-half to six and 
one-half miles of the site, and another Applicant subsidiary, Southgate 
National Bank, Milwaukee, located four miles from the site of Bank. 
Applicant's subsidiary banks derive $1.2 million in deposits from 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations located in the area. It 
is estimated by Applicant that a significant portion of the $3.9 million 
of deposits projected for Bank after three years of operation will 
result from accounts transferred from offices of other of Applicant's 
subsidiaries. 
In the Statement which accompanied its Order approving Appli-
cant's acquisition of First Northwestern National Bank of Milwaukee, — 
the Board indicated its views with respect to the considerations 
applicable to a proposal such as the present one: 
Since the instant proposal involves the acquisition of a pro-
posed new bank which will be opened only in the event of approval 
of the application, no existing or potential competition between 
Bank and Applicant's present subsidiaries would be eliminated 
by the proposal and no immediate increase in banking concentration 
in any area would result. Nevertheless, in view of the significant 
degree of concentration reflected by the foregoing data, and the 
extent of Applicant's participation in such large organization 
control of banking rcjocurcGS, it caauot be said that a proposal 
by Applicant to establish a new subsidiary in the area of its 
greatest domination (Milwaukee County) presents no competitive 
issues. Inasmuch as entry into a commercial banking market 
is restricted, opportunities for deconcentration are limited. 
This is particularly true in a State such as Wisconsin, where 
branching is highly restricted. If every newly developing need 
for banking facilities which arises in a concentrated market 
V 
1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 645, 647-640. 

4126 
-5-
were to be filled by the market's dominant organization, any 
meaningful deconcentration of the market's banking resources 
would be made impossible, and further concentration might be 
encouraged. Each application by such an organization to expand 
within its present trade area, even through acquisition of a 
new bank, must therefore be examined to determine its probable 
effect on existing concentration, whether it will foreclose 
an opportunity for new entry which could provide additional 
competition and possibly promote a decrease in concentration, 
and its effect in limiting the development of existing com-
petitors located in or near the area to be served by the new 
institution. 
In the case of Applicant's acquisition of First Northwestern 
National Bank, the Board noted that: "While it seems clear that new 
entry would be a competitively preferable means of satisfying the 
present and anticipated banking needs of the community, nothing in 
the record provides a basis for concluding that such entry is reasonably 
probable within the foreseeable future.' 
The Board viewed the mere 
possibility of a procompetitive alternative as an insufficient basis 
for concluding that consummation of the proposal would result in a 
substantially less competitive market than would otherwise likely 
develop, and therefore approved the application. 
In the present case, the record postures a different con-
clusion. The shopping center to be developed adjacent to Bank's 
proposed site will contain four major department stores, numerous 
other businesses, office buildings, a theatre, a restaurant and motel, 
and will have parking facilities for 8,000 automobiles. A shopping 
center of this size and nature typically includes at least one bank-
ing office, and the satisfactory growth attained by most of these 
offices evidences the favorable prospects which the large-scale 
development in Greenfield will offer for a bank located in or near 
the proposed shopping center. 

- 6 -
Determination of the competitive effects of a proposed 
holding company acquisition, whether the proposal is one to acquire 
an existing bank or a new bank to be organized under the holding 
company's direction, turns on the issue of whether consummation of 
the proposal will result in a substantially less competitive banking 
market than is likely to exist or develop in the event that the pro-
posal is not consummated. In the present case, consummation of the 
proposal would result in expansion of the dominant banking organi-
zation in Milwaukee County and would tend to preclude entry which 
could lessen the extent of Applicant's dominance in the county, and 
provide competition to offices of Applicant's present subsidiaries 
which serve the immediate area. 
In the event Applicant's proposal is not consummated, the 
record provides reasonable assurance that new entry would be effected. 
In view of the opportunity which the growth potential of the proposed 
service area provides, it would be difficult, under any circumstances, 
to avoid the conclusion that efforts to provide banking service to 
the area will not be limited to Applicant. In addition, however, the 
record indicates that an application was filed by the developers of the 
proposed 
shopping center for a national bank charter for a new bank to 
be located in the center. That application was opposed by Bank's 
organizers for the stated reason that it would be premature to grant 
such a charter so soon after the preliminary approval given to Bank's 
organization, and the Comptroller recently denied the developers1 

bank charter application. Without expressing any opinion as to the 
overall merits of that particular application, the Board views the 
fact of its filing as significant evidence of the likelihood that 
efforts will be made to provide competitive banking facilities for 
the area. 
In view of present concentration in Milwaukee County banking 
and the desirability of encouraging the development of new sources 
of competition, it seems clear that if Applicant's proposal had in-
volved an attempt to acquire a new bank chartered by independent 
interests, the standards of the Act would require a finding that 
competition would be substantially lessened by the proposal's con-
summation. But the law is no less opposed to a proposal which 
suppresses the development of competition than to one which elimi-
nates competition which already exists. In every case, the test is 
the probable effect x^hich the acquisition would have on future 
competition in the relevant market. On the present record, it 
appears probable that consummation of Applicant's proposal would 
result in a substantially less competitive and significantly more 
concentrated banking market in the immediate area and in Milwaukee 
County than would likely develop if the proposal were not consummated. 
The Board is therefore precluded from approving the application unless 
such anticompetitive effects are clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by the proposal's effect in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served. 

-8-
41 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved, - The 
convenience and need's of customers in those areas in which Applicant's 
present subsidiaries are located would not be affected by consummation 
of the proposal. 
It appears that the banking needs of customers located in 
Bank's service area are presently being served, in varying degrees of 
convenience, by one banking office located within the area and by 
banking offices located outside the area, including four offices of 
Applicant's subsidiary banks. Consummation of the proposal would make 
the services of Applicant's system more conveniently available to 
present customers located within the area, and would provide residents 
and businesses in the projected service area with a local alternative 
source of banking services. This consideration is of little signifi-
cance, however, in view of the evidence that the community will be 
provided with additional local banking facilities in any event, 
and from a source independent of those already available with 
reasonable convenience. Moreover, inasmuch as the announcement of 
the proposed shopping center appears to be the event which princi-
pally dictates the need for additional banking facilities, it would 
appear that such need would be served with somewhat greater con-
venience to the community by a facility located within the shopping 
center than by a facility located adjacent to it, as contemplated 
by Applicant's proposal. Consummation of the proposal would represent 
an impediment to the establishment of facilities which would offer 
greater community convenience. 

-9-
4130 
Considerations under this factor do not outweigh the 
significant anticompetitive effects earlier noted. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition, and that of its subsidiary banks, is 
regarded as satisfactory. The prospects of Applicant ancl its subsidiary 
banks are regarded as favorable and management throughout Applicant's 
organization is considered capable and experienced and in all respects 
satisfactory. 
Bank has no financial or operating history. Its management 
will be derived from Applicant's present subsidiaries, and its projected 
growth and earnings indicate favorable prospects. 
Considerations under this factor are consistent with approval 
of the application, but provide no significant weight in favor of 
approval. 
Summary and conclusion. - Previous Board determinations on 
applications by a dominant bank holding company to expand by acquisition 
of a proposed new bank have indicated the considerations applicable to 
such a proposal. Although such an acquisition has some inherent anti-
competitive implications, it also sometimes represents the least anti-
competitive means of expansion of such an organization within its 
immediate area, so that particular care is required in analyzing the 
facts of each case to avoid a determination which would stifle the 
enterprise, energy and far-sightedness necessary to meet the banking 
needs of the community. Thus, in those cases in which a proposal 
has been responsive to a clear and present need for banking facilities, 

- 1 0 -
4131 
the Board has approved such an acquisition, and in one case did so 
despite the fact that proposals which may have been competitively 
preferable were belatedly advanced, ~ 
In other cases, in \-7hich the 
need to be served was not imminent or where it appeared probable 
that competitively preferable proposals adequate to meet the needs 
would be timely advanced, applications by a large holding company 
to acquire a proposed new bank have been denied. —^ 
The principles evolved by those cases, and those con-
siderations discussed in the Board's earlier-cited Statement on 
Applicant's proposal to acquire First Northwestern National Bank, 
represent a sound policy from which the Board sees no reason to depart, 
and adherence to that policy dictates that the present application be 
denied. The application here was filed within several weeks of the 
5/ Application of First Uisconsin Bankshares Corporation, 1960 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 266. In that case, which involved a bank to be 
located within a shopping center, the Board noted that "although the 
shopping center had been proposed for many years and had been in 
operation for some time," only after a Tentative Decision of the Board 
indicating that the Applicant's proposal would be approved did anyone 
other than the Applicant evince interest in establishing banking 
facilities in the area. Under those circumstances, the Board stated 
(p. 263): "to deny Bankshares'application because of these recent indi-
cations of interest would tend to discourage initiative in providing 
needed banking facilities. The Board has concluded that such an outcome 
would not be in the public interest." 
.6/ Application of Northwest Bancorporation, 1958 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
11; Application of TJisconsin Bankshares Corporation. 1958 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 15; Application of First Bank Stock Corporation. 1958 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 1061; Application of Northwest Bancorporation, 1961 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 1209; Application of Central Wisconsin Bankshares, 
Inc., 1966 Federal Reserve Bulletin 29. 

1132 
-li-
announcement of the proposed shopping center, which announcement clearly 
stimulated the present proposal and in all likelihood will stimulate 
less anticompetitive proposals to serve the same anticipated banking 
needs. The shopping center, still in the early stages of construction, 
is to be completed in two stages, with less than one-half the floor 
space completed in 1969 and the balance in 1970. These facts present 
no urgent public need, the satisfaction of which overrides in the 
public interest the significant anticompetitive effects inherent in 
the proposal. 
On the basis of all relevant facts contained in the record, 
and in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, 
it is the Board's judgment that Applicant's proposal may have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition, and that the anti-
competitive effects of the transaction are not clearly outweighed in 
the public interest by any probable effect of the transaction in 
meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Accordingly, the application should be denied. 
November 27, 1968 
* 

4133 
Item No. 7 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR MITCHELL 
11/27/68 
The majority in this case has denied First Wisconsin 
Bankshares de novo access to a market area in suburban Milwaukee. 
It has done so by preventing Bankshares from creating a new 
banking affiliate. 
The newly organized bank would have served portions of 
the communities of Greenfield and Greendale. The estimated 
population of the two communities is 36,500 and the population of 
the bank's "primary service" area (defined as the area from which 
75 per cent of projected deposits will originate) is estimated at 
10,600. Bank of Greenfield ($2,234,000 in deposits), State Bank 
of Hales Corners ($17,035,000 in deposits) and a branch of Layton 
Park State Bank ($22,000,000 in deposits) are, respectively, 
1-1/4, 2-3/4, and 1-1/4 road miles from the proposed location and 
are the major competitors for locally oriented business. First 
Wisconsin Bankshares already has customers in the area with 
deposits estimated at $1,200,000. The other major Milwuakee banks 
also have customers in the area with undisclosed holdings. 
The proposed office would enable Bankshares to better 
service its existing customers in the area and to attract new 
customers as the community grows. Denial of this application 
will impair Bankshares' ability to offer its services in a 
convenient location and to attract new business on the strength 
of the quality and diversity of its services. 

4134 
- 2 -
Most individual depositors and small businesses select 
a banking connection as close to home or work as is feasible. In 
suburban residential areas such as Greenfield these customers 
would ordinarily be within a radius of 1 to 3 miles of a banking 
office, depending on competitive alternatives, the income level of 
the community and the population per square mile. Under present-
day conditions, rejecting an application for an office in this 
suburban area is tantamount to excluding Bankshares from effectively 
competing for such customers in the area. 
Only a compelling and plainly evident conflict with the 
public interest would justify the rejection of the Applicant's 
right to earn-~not purchase through merger or consolidation—the 
patronage of suburban customers. Does the public interest require 
so drastic a measure as confinement of internal expansion by First 
Wisconsin Bankshares? 
The proposal could conceivably be rejected on two grounds: 
that it contravenes State banking policy or that it contravenes 
Federal policy on concentration of power and a trend toward monopoly. 
A State government under the so-called "dual banking system" 
has the power to exclude from effective competition banks chartered 
under the laws of other States, to restrict competition among the 
State banks it charters and to limit their market areas in any 
manner it deems consistent with the State's interest. It may even, 

through anti-branching restraints and home office protection lav/s, 
create local monopolies. A State's power over State banks is all 
the greater because of the established Federal policy to impose 
on National banks the same office location restrictions as are 
applicable to State banks. 
State laws governing the access of banks to local markets 
within the State are extremely diverse; but three groupings are 
roughly distinguishable: 
(1) State-wide access to local markets 
through branching or holding companies or both, (2) limited access 
confined to a single city, a county or contiguous county areas, 
often combined with State-wide access through holding company 
affiliation, (3) local access limited to a one-office location, 
usually with an explicit statutory prohibition with respect to 
holding company affiliation or at least uncertainty that other 
statutory provisions covering banking or general corporate powers 
xrould be interpreted to permit such affiliation. 
Wisconsin does not fit any of these categories very well 
but it has more in common with the second category than the others. 
Some branching has been inherited from earlier statutory provisions, 
State-wide access through holding company affiliation is allowed, 
and recently the State opened to branching those municipalities 
without a banking office. 
Under the spirit of the Federal policy which yields to a 
State the determination of the scope of banking markets within its 

413G 
-49-
boundaries, it could be argued that in the absence of more 
expansive provisions with respect to branching in Wisconsin, 
Bankshares should not be allowed an affiliate in locations where 
branches would be more in keeping with general banking practice. 
But I am more persuaded to the contrary by the precedents that 
have come into being under the Wisconsin law. Over a long period 
of time several affiliates of this type have been organized and 
operated without statutory challenge or correction. It seems 
appropriate to regard such affiliates as consistent with State 
banking policy. The proposal, therefore, should not be struck 
down on the grounds it contravenes State policy as defined by 
the legislature. 
It is obvious from the facts contained in its statement 
that the majority has been influenced toward its denial by 
statistical measures of banking concentration. The concentration 
ratios for First Wisconsin Bankshares are in their judgment too 
large; therefore, that organization is denied the right to expand even 
de novo--»in fact, it is exposed to the risk of losing some of its 
present customers to more convenient banking accommodations because 
it cannot even adapt to population shifts within the metropolitan 
area. 
The statistical measures of concentration for States or 
metropolitan areas are useful if used with caution and consideration 

4137 
-50-
as to their real significance. The standard metropolitan area as 
a significant market area for the sale of products, services or 
labor clearly has its limitations and qualifications. It is not 
ordinarily a suitable basis for gauging competition in providing 
banking services to individuals and smaller firms and associations, 
unless the competitors blanket the entire area with their offices. 
The "total deposit" measure most commonly used is also 
inappropriate in those cases where some deposits are nonlocal in 
origin reflecting larger banking organizations1 penetrations of 
national and international deposit markets. Thus, while the 
great majority of a bank's customers may be recruited within close 
proximity to its offices, the larger businesses, some of the larger 
local governments or their agencies, nonprofit organizations and 
x^ealthy individuals can and do transact some of their banking 
business elsewhere, and irrespective of their residence or principal 
place of business. In some banks these larger depositors hold a 
preponderance in the bankfs deposit aggregate. 
Bearing in mind these limitations, what approach should 
be taken to the problem of judging whether or not acme particular 
level of statistical concentration is or is not compatible with 
the public interest? Ue can look at some comparative situations. 
Before doing so, however, I think the presumption underlying such 
a procedure should be bared. 

413S 
It seems to me reasonable to presume that if Congress, 
after evaluating banking service and performance, held to the view 
that there was excessive banking concentration in metropolitan 
areas throughout the Nation it would direct the Federal super-
visory agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board, to attack 
that problem directly and on a widespread basis by prohibiting 
further branching of any kind in any such areas by the largest 
banking organizations. Congress has authorized no such step unless 
to implement State policy and, in my opinion, the majority in 
this denial has over-reached its Congressional mandate by so 
using Federal power in the Bankshares case. 
Could the majority reasonably contend, however, that the 
situation in the Milwuakee metropolitan area is so extreme a case 
of concentration as to justify the unusual constraint it has 
introduced against de novo entry? 
The latest facts on concentration levels in 17 metropolitan 
areas are contained in the attached table; they are as of June 1966. 
The metropolitan areas included bracket Milwualcee in population size 
ranging from 500,000 to 2,500,000 and are located in States where 
some type of branching and/or holding company affiliation is permitted 
within all or nearly all of the related metropolitan area. 
California SMSA's are excluded because of data non-comparability. 

4133 
-52-
The data i.n the table reveal the relatively low level 
of banking concentration in the Milwuakee metropolitan area. Using 
the market share of the four largest banks in each area as a criterion, 
Milwuakee tanks 17th among 17 in concentration of offices, total 
deposits, and demand deposits of less than $100,000, and 16th in 
concentration of savings deposits of less than $100,000. 
Using the market share of the largest banking organization 
in each area as a criterion, Milwaukee ranks 15th in concentration of 
offices and savings deposits of less than $100,000, 16th in concentration 
of demand deposits under $100,000 and is tied for 13th in concentration 
of total deposits. 
The shares of large (over $100,000) IPC time and demand 
accounts are also shown in the table but are far less significant 
indicators of concentration in local markets since they include 
the balances of regional, national and international customers as 
well as those of local depositors. 
One finds, therefore, slight justification in terms of 
the actual banking structure patterns in the Nation's metropolitan 
areas for characterizing the llilwuakee situation as comparatively 
over concentrated. These real-life criteria seem to me a sounder 
basis for approval than the majority intuitive judgment is for 
denial. 
One also finds no hint in the record that the performance 
of Bankshares, or Milwuakee banks generally, is anti-competitive 

4140 
-53-
in consequence of the extant degree of concentration. On the contrary, 
such performance as can be deduced from the record is indicative of 
a vigorous competitive climate. The benefits to bank customers 
show up in the level of interest charges on loans, interest rates 
paid on deposits and a variety of service features. On the record, 
Bankshares' role in the Milwuakee metropolitan area is not one 
that should be repressed or cut off but one that should be recognized 
as contributing to the competitive environment the majority seeks. 
November 27, 1968. 

Shares of Banking Markets in 17 Metropolitan Areas, June 1966 
4141 
Metropolitan Area 
(1960 population 
in thousands) 
Nujnber 
of 
Banking 
Org.j/ 
Market Shares (Per cent) 
Number 
of 
Offices 
Total 
Deposits 
Small Accounts 
(Less than $100,000) 
IPC Demand Savings 
Large Accounts 
(Over $100,000) 
IPC Demand 
Deposits 
IPC Time 
Deposits 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
Cleveland, Ohio 
| Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
' Baltimore, Md. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
Buffalo, N.Y. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
Milwaukee, Wis. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
New Orleans, La, 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
Portland,Ore. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
^ovidence, R.I. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
Columbus, Ohio 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
(2,405) 
(1,909) 
(1,804) 
(1,307) 
(1,279) 
(907) 
(822) 
(821) 
(755) 
48 
44 
24 
20 
28 
24 
10 
6 
48 
44 
23 
21 
15 
11 
16 
12 
24 
52 
32 
34 
70 
72 
72 
88 
79 
77 
98 
99 
28 
12 
21 
23 
2 
1 
31 
34 
42 
41 
20 
24 
69 
82 
79 
86 
83 
77 
31 
18 
21 
14 
17 
23 
21 
27 
29 
22 
30 
79 
71 
81 
78 
73 
93 
98 
29 
19 
22 
27 
7 
2 
40 
49 
47 
46 
58 
45 
96 
97 
97 
96 
99 
100 
4 
3 
3 
4 
1 
19 
34 
25 
28 
50 
25 
38 
62 
29 
70 
30 
52 
60 
40 
14 
31 
31 
46 
77 
72 
19 
54 
23 
28 
26 
38 
36 
65 
86 
81 
17 
35 
14 
19 
41 
61 
91 
89 
39 
9 
11 
45 
45 
43 
78 
95 
92 
22 
5 
8 
17 Data are consolidated for banks within holding companies 
59 
41 
88 
12 
57 
43 
34 
45 
17 
70 
90 
62 
30 
10 
38 
36 
41 
36 
83 
94 
99 
17 
6 
1 
59 
46 
60 
91 
94 
95 
9 
6 
5 
47 
51 
17 
93 
99 
100 
7 
1 
- -

-2-
4142 
| 
(Ivj 
Shares of Banking Markets in 17 Metropolitan Areas, June 1966 
Metropolitan Area 
(1960 population 
^in thousands) 
Number 
of 
Banking 
Org.!/ 
Market Shares (Per cent) 
Metropolitan Area 
(1960 population 
^in thousands) 
Number 
of 
Banking 
Org.!/ 
Number 
of 
Offices 
Total 
Deposits 
Small Accounts 
(Less than $100,000) 
Large Accounts 
(Over $100,000) 
Metropolitan Area 
(1960 population 
^in thousands) 
Number 
of 
Banking 
Org.!/ 
Number 
of 
Offices 
Total 
Deposits IPC Demand 
Deposits 
Savings 
Deposits 
IPC Demand 
Deposits 
IPC Time 
Deposits 
Rochester, N.Y. 
(733) 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
Phoenix, Ariz. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
Albany, N.Y. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
tkron, Ohio 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
Norfolk, Va. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
SVracuse, N.Y. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
Vtford, Conn. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
; 
Gr eensboro, N.C. 
Largest 
4 largest 
Others 
(664) 
(658) 
(605) 
(579) 
(564) 
(549) 
(520) 
18 
26 
85 
39 
94 
34 
93 
IT 
L: V 
32 
92 
64 
99 
45 
98 
14 
15 
6 
7 
8 
1 
2 
10 
36 
49 
45 
49 
50 
40 
92 
94 
93 
91 
98 
97 
6 
8 
6 
7 
9 
2 
3 
18 
14 
32 
20 
17 
32 
54 
54 
78 
68 
54 
83 
91 
14 
46 
22 
32 
46 
17 
9 
11 
37 
42 
45 
29 
47 
54 
66 
83 
85 
83 
94 
95 
7 
34 
17 
15 
17 
6 
5 
11 
27 
48 
41 
36 
59 
72 
65 
79 
75 
73 
92 
91 
7 
35 
21 
25 
27 
8 
9 
10 
34 
29 
27 
30 
35 
30 
90 
93 
92 
90 
99 
97 
6 
10 
7 
8 
10 
1 
3 
17 
23 
45 
38 
37 
59 
60 
70 
93 
89 
83 
98 
99 
13 
30 
7 
11 
17 
2 
1 
11 
30 
51 
37 
53 
53 
62 
69 
94 
93 
90 
98 
100 
7 
31 
6 
7 
10 
2 
banks within holding companies. 

4143 
Item No. 8 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR DAANE 
11/27/68 
I concur wholeheartedly in Governor Mitchell's dissent. 
I would only comment additionally that I remain skeptical of the 
Board's prescience in pre-determining that approval precludes any 
other entrants while denial assures another entrant of a character 
such as to provide a greater competitive force. 
November 27, 1968. 

4144 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
O F T H E 
Item No. 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/27/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 29, 1968 
Mr. Oscar R. Goodman, 
Professor of Finance, 
Roosevelt University, 
430 South Michigan Avenue, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60605 
Dear Professor Goodman: 
The Board has considered your request of November 12 for 
access to midyear 1964 branch deposit figures reported by individual 
banks in Nevada, by counties. The further breakdown of these de-
posits by size of deposit and by number of deposits was not reported 
in 1964. For 1966 and 1968, data for deposits by counties were 
gathered and compiled by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Although the Board recognizes that your proposed study 
could be of significant benefit to the public and to the System 
the conditions under which deposits by counties data for 1964 were 
gathered restrict the secondary use of such information reported by 
individual banks. 
y 
If you represent a bank involved in a merger case, such 
bank may write the Board stating that the 1964 deposit data re-
quested are needed and will be used for that purpose only. Release 
of the information requested will be reconsidered in the light of 
any such communication. 
Very truly yours, 
Arthur L. Broida, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4145 
.vos^a^v.. 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
11/27/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 6, 1968. 
Mr. Harry W. Huning, 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
This refers to your letter of June 10, enclosing a letter of 
June 3, 1968, and supporting materials, from Mr. Theodore W. Jones, General 
Counsel to the National City Bank ("City Bank") of Cleveland, Cleveland, 
Ohio, with regard to the possible applicability to certain loans by City 
Bank to employees of Hanna Mining Company ("Hanna") of the Board of Gov-
ernors' Regulation G, "Credit By Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, or 
Dealers for Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities" 
and Regulation U, "Credit By Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carry-
ing Registered Stocks." 
Under the facts summarized in Mr. Jones' letter, an officer or 
employee included under the stock option plan of Hanna who wishes to ex-
ercise his option, obtains a loan for the purchase price of the stock by 
executing an unsecured note to City Bank. Hanna issues to the bank a 
guaranty of the loan and holds the purchased shares as collateral to secure 
it against loss on the guaranty. Stock of Hanna is registered on a national 
securities exchange. It is understood that the amount of the loans by City 
Bank exceeds the maximum loan value of the stock pledged with Hanna, under 
the current Supplements to Regulations G and U. 
A lender is subject to the registration requirement of Regulation G 
if, in the ordinary course of the lender's business, he extends credit on 
collateral that includes any registered equity securities in the amount of 
$50,000 or more in any calendar quarter, or has such credit outstanding in 
any calendar quarter in the amount of $100,000 or more. If a lender is subject 
to the registration requirement, any credit he extends is subject to the margin 
and other requirements of the regulation if the credit is for the purpose of 
purchasing or carrying registered equity securities, and is secured, directly 
or indirectly, by any such securities. 
It is assumed that under the arrangements described above, Hanna 
has $100,000 in guaranties outstanding during the current calendar quarter. 

Mr. Harry W. Huning 
- 
2 
-
4148 
The guaranties are secured by stock of Hanna, so that Regulation G applies to 
Hanna if (1) such a guaranty is an "extension of credit" for purposes of 
the regulation, and (2) the guaranties are given in the ordinary course of 
business of Hanna. 
» 
The Board has considered the question whether a guaranty is itself 
an extension of credit, under circumstances such as those described above, 
and reached the conclusion that a person who guarantees a loan, and becomes 
liable for the amount loaned in the event the borrower should default, is 
lending his credit to the borrower. This conclusion accords with that reached 
by courts which have considered the matter. For example, in discussing a 
parallel situation, the Supreme Court of Connecticut has stated that "ob-
viously the acts here charged, the endorsements of notes, are extensions of 
credit." 
(State v. Zazzaro, 128 Conn. 160; 20 A. 2d 737 (1941)). 
Turning to the question whether such an extension of credit is in 
the ordinary course of business of the guarantor, § 207.2(b) provides that 
"The term 'in the ordinary course of his business' 
means occurring or reasonably expected to occur from time 
to time in the course of any activity of a person for prof-
it or the management and preservation of property or in 
addition, in the case of a person other than an individual, 
carrying out or in furtherance of any business purpose." 
This language clearly covers an arrangement of the kind described above. The 
conclusion that a guaranty of a loan to exercise a stock option is "in fur-
therance of . . . (a) business purpose" of a corporation for purposes of the 
regulation is also supported by the fact that the regulation includes, in 
§ 207.4(a), special provisions relating to credit extended by corporations 
to finance the exercise of such options. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the guaranty by Hanna is an 
extension of credit under Regulation G, that Hanna is required to register 
pursuant to § 207.1(a) of the regulation, and that such guaranties may not 
be given in excess of the maximum loan value of the collateral pledged to 
secure the guaranty, which is 20 per cent under the current supplement to 
the regulation. 
An extension of credit by a bank is subject to Regulation U if the 
credit is (1) for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any registered stock, 
and (2) is secured, directly or indirectly, by any such securities. The loans 
described above are for the purpose of purchasing stock of Hanna, so that the 
loans by City Bank are subject to the regulation if they are "indirectly secured" 
by the stock pledged to secure Hanna's guaranty. It is not necessary, however, 
to reach the question whether the pledge amounts to "indirect security" within 
the meaning of the regulation, since the Board has concluded that the activ-
ities of City Bank in this connection amount to "arranging" for credit on 
terms on which the bank itself could not extend such credit, under § 221.3(u) 

Mr. Harry W. Huning 
- 3 -
? - 3 /I 
4 X 4 r 
of the regulation, which provides that 
"No bank shall arrange for the extension or 
maintenance of any credit for the purpose of purchasing 
or carrying any stock registered on a national secu-
rities exchange, except upon the same terms and condi-
tions on which the bank itself could extend or maintain 
such credit under the provisions of this Part." 
It seems clear that in any usual sense of the word, City Bank took 
part in "arranging" for the giving of a guaranty by Hanna to secure the loans 
described above. Hence, since the Board concludes that the giving of such a 
guaranty amounts to an extension of credit, City Bank could not arrange for 
the giving of such guaranties in excess of the maximum loan value of the stock 
pledged to secure the guaranties. 
It would be appreciated if you would advise City Bank and Hanna of 
the Board's conclusions, so that the situation can be brought into conformity 
with applicable provisions of both regulations as soon as possible. In this 
connection, you may wish to point out that substantially similar results could 
be achieved in conformity with both regulations, if Hanna were to adopt a plan 
pursuant to § 207.4(a) of Regulation G. Under this section, the corporation 
could extend credit to its officers and employees on whatever terms it deemed 
appropriate, so long as the loans were subject to the restrictions imposed 
therein. These restrictions were adopted by the Board to make it less likely 
that stock purchased under such plans would be sold in the securities markets 
to repay the loans, and the credit used to purchase the stock contribute to 
the total amount of credit in those markets. 
Section 221.2(b) permits a bank to finance a plan described in 
§ 207.4(a), provided the bank does not have recourse to any stock purchased 
pursuant to such a plan. Thus, City Bank could lend Hanna, or a "plan-lender" 
established by Hanna, funds necessary to finance such purchases, provided that, 
as is the case with the loans the bank has made directly to officers and em-
ployees of the corporation, discussed above, the purchased stock did not secure 
the loans. In addition, § 207.4(a)(3) of Regulation G provides that such loans 
by a bank to finance a plan subject to § 207.4(a) shall not be deemed to be 
"indirectly secured" by the purchased stock, so long as such stock is not 
repledged to secure the extension of credit to the plan-lender, and the total 
amount borrowed does not exceed the amount loaned under the plan. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4148 
s a f e - . 
% 
is; 
£ 
B D A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 11 
11/27/68 
S-2071 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 29, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
Since 1915 the Board has taken the position,as a matter of 
policy, that directors and officers of a Federal Reserve Bank should not 
engage in any political activity or serve in any public office where 
such activity or service might be interpreted as associating the Reserve 
Bank with any political party or partisan political activity or might 
embarrass the Reserve Bank or the Federal Reserve System as a whole in 
the conduct of its operations,or raise any question as to the indepen-
dence of the individual's judgment or his ability to perform the duties 
of his position with the System. On December 23, 1915, the Board adopted 
a resolution reading in part as follows: 
"WHEREAS, It is the opinion of the Federal Reserve 
Board that persons holding political or public office in 
the service of the United States, or of any State, 
Territory, county, district, political subdivision, or 
municipality thereof, or acting as members of political 
party committees, can not consistently with the spirit 
and underlying principles of the Federal Reserve Act, 
serve as directors or officers of Federal Reserve Banks. 
"RESOLVED, That the Federal Reserve Board hereby 
expresses to the member banks its opinion that no such 
persons should henceforward be elected or act as directors 
or officers of Federal Reserve Banks; and prescribes as a 
condition of eligibility that candidates for election 
shall comply with the terms of this resolution." 
The policy embodied in this resolution has been applied to employees 
of the Federal Reserve Banks as well as to directors and officers. 

* A, ,m € \ 
4149 
S-2071 
- 2 -
In issuing this policy statement and in interpreting and 
applying it over the years, the Board's aim has been to keep the Federal 
Reserve System free from partisan political activities—not to preclude 
persons associated with the System from participating in public affairs 
as individual voters or as members of nonpartisan public service bodies 
when that would not be potentially embarrassing to the System. In the 
case of full-time officers and employees, a factor considered in 
relation to their possible participation in a nonpartisan public body 
would also be the amount of time and energy that might be required by 
the activity and whether such demands might impair the individual's 
ability to perform satisfactorily his duties as a member of the staff. 
Obviously, the question whether a particular activity or 
service in a particular office violates the spirit and purpose of the 
Board's resolution is a matter of judgment that in many cases may have 
to be determined in the light of the factual situation. However, it 
seems desirable at this time to restate the views of the Board regarding 
this matter as expressed in earlier letters and to elaborate to soma 
extent upon those views in the light of decisions made by the Board 
over the years in individual cases. 
The Board's policy is not, of course, intended to restrict 
the right of any person associated with the Federal Reserve Banks to 
express his personal political views in an individual capacity or to 
indicate his preference for a political candidate for public office. 
The policy does not preclude a director of a Federal Reserve Bank or 
Branch from permitting his name to be listed among a group of persons 
as supporting a specific candidate if such listing does not involve 
any activity on his part as a campaign speaker or fund raiser. 
Similarly, Reserve Bank officers or employees are not necessarily 
precluded from permitting the use of their names in such listings, 
although the Board assumes that they would rarely if ever have 
occasion or desire to give such permission. 
The policy does, however, forbid a person connected with a 
Reserve Bank from engaging in partisan political activities such as 
acting as a delegate to a political nominating convention, serving as 
a member of a fund-raising or campaign committee, making speeches in 
support of a candidate in a partisan election, or otherwise taking an 
active part in partisan political activities that would publicly 
identify the individual as being associated with the Federal Reserve. 
It is also contrary to the Board's policy for a person connected with 
a Reserve Bank himself to hold, or to be a candidate for, any public 
office the election or appointment to which involves partisan politics. 
For example, the Board has held in individual cases that it is contrary 

4150 
S-2071 
- 3 -
to the Board's policy for a person connected with a Reserve Bank to be 
a candidate for election as a member of Congress or as governor of a 
State or to serve as a State senator. Ordinarily, the same restriction 
has been applied to local offices such as a mayor or councilman of a 
city, a county treasurer or member of the county board of supervisors, 
or paid members of various local authorities. 
On the other hand, the Board has permitted exceptions in 
specific instances when party designation, nomination, or sponsorship 
were completely absent, when little or no compensation was involved, 
or when the holding of the office did not seem likely to require so 
much time as to interfere with the individual's responsibilities to 
the Federal Reserve System. Thus, to cite only a few examples, the 
Board has held that its policy is not violated by service as a member 
of a school board, a State roads or bridge commission, a park planning 
commission, or a local board of health. 
Even where partisan politics is not involved, a consideration 
in determining whether service in a public office by a full-time officer 
or employee of a Reserve Bank is permissible under the Board's policy 
is whether such service would involve a considerable amount of the 
individual's time and might therefore impair the performance of his 
duties at the Reserve Bank. Another consideration is whether the 
service in question might in any way involve a conflict of interest 
with the person's duties as a director, officer, or employee of a 
Federal Reserve Bank. For example, the Board has held that membership 
of a Reserve Bank director on a State banking board would not be 
consistent with the Board's policy, largely because of the potential 
for conflicts of interest. 
Literally, the Board's 1915 resolution requires compliance 
by persons who are "candidates for election" as Reserve Bank directors. 
There may be cases in which the nature or importance of the political 
or public office held by a candidate for election as a Reserve Bank 
director might tend to associate the Reserve Bank in the public mind 
with political activities; and in such a case retention of such an 
office while a candidate might be contrary to the spirit of the 
resolution. On the other hand, there have been other cases in which 
the office was of such a non-political nature as to make it unnecessary 
for the candidate to resign the office prior to his entry upon duty as 
a Reserve Bank director. 
On some occasions, questions have been presented to the Board 
regarding the applicability of the 1915 resolution after a director, 

4153 
S-2071 
-4-
officer, or employee of a Reserve Bank has accepted a public office the 
holding of which might be precluded by this letter. In order to permit 
advance consideration of such questions and to avoid embarrassment, each 
Reserve Bank should make every effort to keep its directors, officers, 
and employees informed of the Board's policy so that any such question 
may be brought to the attention of the appropriate officers of the 
Reserve Bank and, if necessary, to the Board's attention, before the 
individual concerned seeks or accepts an office of a public or political 
character. It might be well to bring this letter to the attention of 
directors and officers periodically, for example at the beginning of any 
year in which a general election is to be held. 
This letter supersedes the Board's letters of August 3, 1950 
(S-1134, F.R.L.S. <3 100.40), June 30, 1954 (S-1537, F.R.L.S. <j 100.41), 
and October 14, 1959 (S-1713, F.R.L.S. <j 100t42). It also supersedes 
the third paragraph of the Board's letter of September 16, 1960 
(S-1762, F.R.L.S. <3 100.43). 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 12 
11/27/68 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
T^LRE^. 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
November 27, 1968. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
In connection with your Bank's advice to the Board 
of Governors of official staff changes at the New Orleans 
Branch, the Board interposes no objection to the promotion of 
Arthur H. Kantner as Vice President and Manager at New Orleans, 
effective December 1, 1968; and the promotion and transfer to 
that Branch of George C. Guynn as Assistant Vice President, 
effective January 1, 1969, at their current salary rates of 
$17,000, and $16,000, respectively. 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
