Minutes for 
M a Y 13, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1740 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 13, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Harris, Coordinator of Defense Planning 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons and Reynolds, Associate 
Directors, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Noble, Porter, and Shuter of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Kichline and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, Lyon, and Rumbarger 
of the Division of Examinations 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by the available 
members of the Board at the meeting held on Friday, May 10, 1968, as 
recorded in the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous 
vote. 

5/13/68 
-2-
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under 
the respective item numbers indicated. 
Letter to Chemical International Banking 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to purchase shares of Bank of New 
Providence, Ltd., Nassau, Bahamas. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget regarding 
a proposal for State legislation to authorize 
investments in obligations of the Asian 
Development Bank. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed merger of State Bank and Trust Company, Greenwood, South Carolina, 
with Batesburg State Bank, Batesburg, South Carolina, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion read 
as follows: 
There is little existing competition between Batesburg 
State Bank and State Bank and Trust Company, Greenwood, and 
potential for increased competition between them is somewhat 
limited. The overall competitive effect would be slightly 
adverse. 
Applications of Bancorporation of Montana (Items 3-7). There 
had been distributed drafts of orders and a statement reflecting the 
Board's action on April 10, 1968, approving the applications of 
Bancorporation of Montana, Great Falls, Montana, to acquire the entire 
Item No. 
1 
2 

5/13/68 
-3-
voting stock of Eastside Bank of Montana, Great Falls; Pondera Bank of 
Montana, Conrad; Valier Bank of Montana, Valier; and The People's 
State Bank of Missoula, Missoula, Montana. 
After discussion, the issuance of the orders and statement was 
authorized. Copies of the documents, in the form in which they were 
issued, are attached as Items 3-7. 
Application of Huntington Bancshares. There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated May 2, 1968, from the Division of Examinations, 
with other pertinent papers, regarding the application of Huntington 
Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of The Savings Bank Company, Chillicothe, 
Ohio. The Division recommended approval, as did the Banking Markets 
Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
Mr. Lyon summarized the application and thereafter responded 
to several questions by members of the Board. 
Governor Brimmer then observed that although the area served 
was primarily agricultural the Chillicothe bank's portfolio included 
only a small percentage of agricultural loans. He went on to comment 
concerning a recent visit to Ohio, during which a presentation on the 
banking structure had convinced him that the State's branching laws 
were so restrictive, and were likely to remain so, that the bank hold-
ing company would probably be the principal device for expansion. He 

17 
5/13/68 
-4-
added that small, sluggish banks such as the one here involved would 
probably have to become holding company subsidiaries if they were to 
remain viable. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that, while the staff apparently 
believed there was only slight weight in favor of the proposal, he was 
inclined to think there would be a positive benefit in terms of agri-
cultural financing. The Chillicothe community could use a more active 
banking organization. 
Other members of the Board also indicated that they would 
approve the application, although Governor Robertson commented that 
he thought there was not a great deal of weight on the side of approval 
The application was thereupon approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that an order and statement reflecting this decision 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Messrs. Noble, Wiles, Kichline, Burton, Lyon, and Rumbarger 
then withdrew from the meeting. 
Foreign time deposits (Item No. 8). There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated May 9, 1968, from the Legal Division regarding a 
request from Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee on Banking and 
Currency for a report on S. 3215, a bill "to extend the authority of 
domestic banks to pay interest on time deposits of foreign governments 
at rates differing from those applicable to domestic depositors." The 
Board had previously taken the position (in testimony by Governor 
Robertson on April 3, 1968, before the Subcommittee on Financial 

1744 
5/13/68 
-5-
Institutions of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee) that the 
statutory exemption for certain foreign deposits was unnecessary so 
long as there remained in effect the Board's flexible authority under 
section 19(j) of the Federal Reserve Act to prescribe different maximum 
rates of interest, or to refrain from prescribing any maximum rate, for 
different types of deposits. However, present indications were that 
the temporary authority under section 19(j) would not be extended for 
more than one, or possibly two, years. 
Various other considerations were discussed in the memorandum, 
and attached were alternative drafts of reply to Chairman Sparkman. 
One would recommend extension of the statutory exemption, with an 
optional suggestion regarding maturity limitations. The other would 
question the need for extension of the statutory exemption, even though 
it now seemed unlikely that the Board's flexible authority under sec-
tion 19 would be made permanent at this time. 
Discussion developed agreement upon a reply stating that, while 
the statutory exemption for certain foreign time deposits did not appear 
essential so long as the Board retained its flexible authority under 
section 19, if the Congress saw some advantage in the certainty of 
specific legislation, the Board would have no objection to enactment 
of S. 3215. 
The letter was then approved unanimously in the form attached 
as Item No. 8. 

1745 
5/13/68 
-6-
Appointment of truth-in-lending consultants. Pursuant to a 
recommendation by Mr. Solomon in a memorandum dated May 10, 1968, the 
Board approved unanimously the appointment of the following persons as 
consultants to advise on consumer credit rate charts, effective until 
December 31, 1968: 
Charles H. Gushee, 
Financial Publishing Company, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
Joseph H. Pitts, 
Carleton Financial Computations, Inc., 
South Bend, Indiana. 
Leroy Rogers, 
American Charts Company, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
The appointments were made on a temporary contractual basis with com-
pensation at the rate of $90 per day for each day worked and trans-
portation expenses and per diem in accordance with the Board's travel 
regulations. 
Employee responsibilities and conduct (Items 9 and 10). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated May 9, 1968, from Governor 
Robertson recommending certain procedures to insure maintaining high 
standards of conduct and integrity throughout the Federal Reserve 
System. A draft of letter to the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents was 
attached. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement with a 
suggestion by Governor Brimmer that the letter be expanded to request 

17-16 
5/13/68 
-7-
that the Reserve Banks send to the Board summaries of their rules of 
employee conduct, the letter was approved unanimously in the form 
attached as Item No. 9, along with the other recommendations in 
Governor Robertson's memorandum, a copy of which is attached as Item 
No. 10. 
Sublease of Watergate space. Pursuant to a recommendation by 
the Division of Administrative Services in a memorandum dated May 9, 
1968, the Board approved unanimously subleasing to General Adjustment 
Bureau, Inc., 3,000 square feet of the space leased by the Board at 
the Watergate Building, for a temporary period of from three to five 
months beginning May 1, 1968, at a monthly rental of $1,750 including 
furniture and fixtures. 
Bank protection law. Governor Robertson referred to the enact-
ment of legislation that would require banks to comply with prescribed 
minimum protection standards and expressed the view that steps should 
be taken to enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities effec-
tively. These might include the appointment of a consultant, whose 
name Governor Robertson mentioned, as well as attendance by members 
of the staff at seminars devoted to the subject. One such seminar 
was reportedly being planned under the sponsorship of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Agreement was expressed that steps along such lines would be 
appropriate. 

1747 
5/13/68 
-8-
Possible violations of Regulation U. There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated April 26, 1968, from the Legal Division 
reporting on the status of investigation of transactions involving 
Karl H. P. Swensson, of Seattle, Washington, and his two brothers. 
Some 39 banks had made a series of stock collateral loans, many with 
the assistance of a New York City brokerage firm, that apparently 
violated the Board's margin regulations. Late in 1966 the Board 
arranged for special inspections of the banks involved, with the coop-
eration of other supervisory authorities. The inspections were com-
pleted by March 1967 and subsequent staff review resulted in a tentative 
conclusion that 19 of the banks had shown something close to willful 
disregard of the regulations. However, a representative of the Depart-
ment of Justice had expressed doubt that a criminal prosecution would 
succeed. He recommended that enforcement of Regulation U be tightened 
and a form of purpose statement prescribed that would permit prosecution 
of the borrower for a false statement knowingly made to the bank. 
(The 
Board had now adopted such a statement.) 
The staff then explored with the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission the possibility of civil action. However, an official of the 
Commission indicated that he would like to study further the matter of 
criminal prosecution. To aid in this study, the Board's staff had 
furnished to the Commission, on a confidential basis, draft summaries 
of the inspections. The results of the study by the Commission's 
staff were now awaited. 

17 
5/13/68 
-9-
Governor Mitchell inquired whether it was not feasible, in the 
course of examination, to require corrective action by a bank that was 
making loans that violated a margin regulation. Mr. Solomon replied 
that if an examiner reported such a circumstance the supervisory author-
ity must determine whether to issue a cease and desist order, refer the 
matter to the Department of Justice, or refer it to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission with a view to issuance of an injunction. With 
respect to the Swensson case, he believed the problem had arisen in 
large measure because of the weakness that had now been corrected by 
the new purpose statement. 
There ensued comments on the use of moral suasion in another 
instance recently, and on the view of the Department of Justice that 
examiners had not been sufficiently diligent. Governor Maisel spoke 
in favor of a follow-up with the 19 banks principally involved, after 
which Governor Robertson suggested that the banks might be informed of 
the conclusions reached by the Board's staff and asked to advise of 
corrective measures taken. 
Governor Brimmer raised the question whether it would be 
adequate simply to inform the banks of the results of the inspections, 
particularly if it was possible to obtain injunctions. Mr. Hexter 
pointed out, in responding, that there might be a question of propriety 
in asking the banks for assurances while the Securities and Exchange 
Commission was still considering the possibility of injunctive or other 
proceedings. 

1749 
5/13/68 
-10-
Governor Robertson then suggested, as a first step, asking the 
Commission about the status of its study; depending on the answer the 
Board, with the cooperation of the Comptroller of the Currency, might 
want to approach the banks in question. 
There was general agreement with Governor Robertson's sugges-
tion. 
Problem banks. Pursuant to suggestions by Governors Mitchell 
and Robertson, it was understood that the staff would prepare material 
regarding the status of problem banks and supervisory measures being 
taken in those instances, after which the Board might want to discuss 
the more important cases. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent 
today to First National City Bank, New 
York, New York, acknowledging receipt 
of notice of its intent to establish 
four additional branches in Montevideo, 
Uruguay, to be located in the Centro, 
Cordon, Union, and Pocitos areas of 
Montevideo. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the sending of a 
letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York (copy attached as Item No. 11) 
regarding arrangements whereby William J. 
Milusich, an examiner for the Bank, would 
be assigned to the Board's Division of 
Examinations for a period of one month 
beginning June 3, 1968. 

1750 
5/13/68 
-11-
Governor Robertson also approved today 
on behalf of the Board a request from 
Joseph C. Golden, Senior Economist in 
the Division of Research and Statistics, 
for permission to lecture at the School 
of Banking of the South at Louisiana 
State University during the week of 
June 3-7, 1968, while on administrative 
leave, it being understood that Mr. 
Golden's travel expenses would be paid 
by the school but that he would not 
accept an honorarium. 
On May 13, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Item No. 
Letter to Joy State Bank, Joy, Illinois, 
waiving the requirement of six months' 
notice of withdrawal from membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
12 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in 
Fresno. 
13 
Secretary 

1751 
BOARD OF G D V E R N • RS 
I t e m No> 
1 
D F T H E 
5/13/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 13, 1968. 
Chemical International Banking Corporation, 
20 Pine Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 23, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for Chemical International Banking Corpora-
tion ("CIBC") to purchase and hold up to 50 per cent of the capital 
stock of Bank of New Providence, Ltd., Nassau, Bahamas ("Probank"), 
at a cost of approximately $704,000, provided that approximately 25 
per cent of the stock of Probank is acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. In this connection, the Board also approves the 
purchase and holding of such shares in excess of 15 per cent of 
CIBC's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of Probank by CIBC is granted subject to the following conditions 
(1) That CIBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in Probank if Probank at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if Probank establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any oper-
ation in the Bahamas or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to CIBC; 
(2) That CIBC shall not carry the shares acquired of Probank 
at a net amount in excess of the proportionate share 
of the book capital accounts of Probank, after giving 
effect to the elimination of all known losses; 
(3) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CIBC will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activi-
ties of CIBC as it may require from time to time; and 

17 
Chemical International 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
(4) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Probank 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Probank were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board sus-
pends until further notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) above, 
so far as they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Probank in 
the Bahamas in the currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, and Chemical 
International Finance, Ltd., and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

~ B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
1753 
Item No. 2 
5/13/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
H O A R D 
May 13, 1968 
Mr. Phillip S. Hughes, 
Deputy Director, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Attention Mr. Thomas J. Graves. 
Dear Mr. Hughes: 
This refers to your letter of April 29, 1968 requesting 
a report by May 17, 1968 on a proposal under consideration by the 
Committee on Suggested State Legislation of the Council of State 
Governments to recommend adoption by the various States of legis-
lation authorizing investment in obligations of the Asian Devel-
opment Bank by insurance companies, fiduciaries, State banks, 
credit unions and savings and loan associations, pension funds, 
State and local governmental units and any other person or entity. 
National banks already have authority to underwrite, invest and 
deal in such obligations within certain limits. 
The Board of Governors favors the principle of making 
obligations of the Asian Development Bank eligible investments 
under State law. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1754 
Item No. 3 
5/13/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
^CORPORATION OF MONTANA, 
Great Falls, Montana, 
approval of the acquisition of 
100 per cent of the voting shares of 
Eastside Bank of Montana, Great Falls, 
Montana. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
lQ42(a)(3)), and section 222.4(a)(3) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.4(a)(3)), an application by Bancorporation of Montana, 
Great Falls, Montana, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares of Eastside Bank of Montana, 
Great Falls, Montana. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
th 
a e Montana Superintendent of Banks of the application and requested his 
V*eWs and recommendation. The Superintendent replied that he had no 

1*1 r* 
M
O 
- 2 -
objection to the proposed application provided that proceeds for the 
purchase of Bank's stock were obtained by Applicant through the sale 
of Applicant's common stock. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on November 29, 1967 (32 Federal Register 16295), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
• . . ? 
. . . 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
, • •i v' • -'' . 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
tor filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
* 
* 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
/ 
Utuess such period is ej:tended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority, 
a n d provided further that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
c°nsummated unless cash with which to pay for the shares proposed to 
e acquired has been raised by issuance of Applicant's stock, or 
; VV 
L. 
Applicant has a firm commitment from a reliable and independent under-
writer that sufficient proceeds from the sale of Applicant's stock will 

be provided Applicant within three months of the date of this Order 
to liquidate all debt incurred in connection with the purchase of 
shares of Eastside Bank. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th day of May, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
•ft 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
i> 
(Signed) Robert F. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

-to/ 
Item No. 4 
5/13/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BANCORPORATION OF MONTANA, 
Great Falls, Montana, 
for approval of the acquisition of 
100 per cent of the voting shares of 
Pondera Bank of Montana, Conrad, 
Montana. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1042(a)(3)), and section 222.4(a)(3) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.4(a)(3)), an application by Bancorporation of Montana, 
Great Falls, Montana, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares of Pondera Bank of Montana, Conrad, 
Montana. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Montana Superintendent of Banks of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Superintendent replied that he had no 

1758 
- 2 -
objection to the proposed application provided that proceeds for the 
purchase of Bank's stock were obtained by Applicant through the sale 
of Applicant's common stock. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 29, 1967 (32 Federal Register 16295), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority, 
and provided further that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated unless cash with which to pay for the shares proposed to 
b e acquired has been raised by issuance of Applicant's stock, or 
Applicant has a firra coumitment from a reliable and independent under-
writer that sufficient proceeds from the sale of Applicant's stock will 

1759 
-3-
ke provided Applicant uithin three months of the date of this Order 
to liquidate all debt incurred in connection with the purchase of 
shares of Pondera Bank. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th day of May, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Ilitchell. 
; ( s 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1760 
Item No. 5 
5/13/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C# 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BANCORPORATION OF MONTANA, 
Great Falls, Montana, 
for approval of the acquisition of 
!00 per cent of the voting shares of 
Valier Bank of Montana, Valier, 
Hontana. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
and section 222.4(a)(3) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.4(a)(3)), an application by Bancorporation of Montana, 
Great Falls, Montana, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares of Valier Bank of Montana, Valier, 
Montana. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
tlle Montana Superintendent of Banks of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Superintendent replied that he had no 

. 1761 
- 2 -
objection to the proposed application provided that proceeds for the 
purchase of Bank's stock were obtained by Applicant through the sale 
of Applicant's common stock. 
Notice of receipt of the application uas published in the 
Federal Register on November 29, 1967 (32 Federal Register 16295), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing 
comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority, 
Qnd provided further (that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
c°nsummated unless cash with which to pay for the shares proposed to 
^e acquired has been raised by issuance of Applicant's stock, or 
Applicant has a firm commitment from a reliable and independent under-
writer that sufficient proceeds from the sale of Applicant's stock will 

be provided Applicant within three months of the date of this Order 
to liquidate all debt incurred in connection with the purchase of 
shares of Valier Bank of Montana. 
Dated at Uashincton, D. C., this 13th day of May, I960. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal," 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

Item No, 
5/13/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
lr* the Matter of the Application of 
» 
i 
^CORPORATION OF MONTANA, 
* 
Great Falls, Montana, 
• 
* 
' 
i 
for approval of the acquisition of 
• 
per cent of the voting shares of 
1 
Ahe People's State Bank of Missoula, 
' 
Wissoula, Montana. 
• 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Ban!: Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
lu'2(a)(3))f and section 222.4(a)(3) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
C F R 222.4(a)(3)), an application by Bancorporation of Montana, 
reat Falls, Montana, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares of The People's State Bank of 
His 
ssoula, Missoula, Montana. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
Mont-
"ntana Superintendent of Banks of the application and requested his 
;s and recommendation. The Superintendent replied that he had no 

1764 
-2-
objection to the proposed application provided that proceeds for the 
Purchase of Bank's stock were obtained by Applicant through the sale 
of Applicant's common stock. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on November 29, 1967 (32 Federal Register 16295), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority, 
B n J 
Provided further that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
c°nsummated unless cash with which to pay for the shares proposed to 
acquired has been raised by issuance of Applicant's stock, or 
^Plicant has a firm commitment from a reliable and independent under-
writer that sufficient proceeds from the sale of Applicant's stock will 

be provided Applicant within three months of the date of this Order 
to liquidate all debt incurred in connection with the purchase of 
shares of The People's State Bank of Missoula. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th day of May, 1960. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal," 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1766 
a 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 7 
5/13/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEII 
APPLICATIONS BY BANCORPORATION OF MONTANA, GREAT FALLS, 
MONTANA, FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF FOUR BANKS IN THE STATE OF MONTANA 
STATEMENT 
Bancorporation of Montana, Great Falls, Montana ("Applicant"), 
registered banl: holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( the Act"), for prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent of 
th 
n e voting shares of the following four banks located in Montana: 
Eastside Bank of Montana, Great Falls; Pondera Bank of Montana, Conrad; 
V a U e r Bank of Montana, Valier; and The People's State Bank of Missoula, 
Hi 
- f 
lssoula. At June 30, 1967, 
Applicant controlled seven banks with 
total deposits of $44.1 million. Eastside Bank of Montana ("Eastside 
arik") opened for business in January 1967 and has total deposits of 
Approximately $732,000. Pondera Bank of Montana ("Pondera Bank") holds 
total deposits of $1.3 million. Valier Bank of Montana ("Valier Bank") 
a a total deposits of $1.6 million. The People's State Bank of Missoula 
lssoula Bank") has total deposits of $1.8 million. Of the four proposed 
^ ^ ^ e s s noted, all*~banking data are of this date and refer to insured 
c°nmercial banks. 

- 2 -
1767 
subsidiary banks, three are nonmember insured institutions. Valier Ban!: 
is a Federal Reserve member bank. At the present time 45 per cent of 
Applicant's common voting stock is controlled by two brothers, who to-
gether control an additional 7.6 per cent of Applicant's stock through a 
profit-sharing trust. The brothers are Chairman of the Board of Applicant 
and its President, respectively, and together own 95 per cent of the voting 
stock of Eastside Bank, 96 per cent of the voting stock of Pondera Bank, 
% per cent of the voting stock of Valier Bank, and 91 per cent of the 
voting stock of Missoula Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
bV section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the applications was given 
t o ttie Montana Superintendent of Banks, and his views and recommendations 
V7ere requested. The Superintendent replied that he had no objection to the 
Proposed acquisitions provided suitable financial arrangements for the 
Purchases were assured by Applicant. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(a) of the Act provides that 
e Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly 
0 r 
would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
or 
attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United 
S t a t es. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed acquisition the effect 
0 f which, i n a n y s e c t i o n o f t h e country, may be substantially to lessen 
^Petition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner 
b e in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompeti-
V e effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public 

1768 
-3-
interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each case, the 
Board is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transactions. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations operating in the State of Montana control 65.6 per 
cent of total bank deposits. Among these, four bank holding companies, 
including Applicant and three larger bank holding companies that are head-
bartered outside the State, control 52.3 per cent of the total bank deposits. 
Under existing law, none of the three out-of-State bank holding companies 
may acquire through stock acquisition additional banks within the State. 
A p p H c a n t is permitted to acquire the four banks that are the subjects 
these applications, concentration of deposits in the 10 largest bank-
organizations, and in the four bank holding companies, would be in-
creased, respectively, to 66.1 per cent (an increase of .5) and to 53.2 per 
c e n t (an increase of .4). Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization 
t n the State, controls 3.0 per cent of the total deposits in the State. 
^Orisummation of its four proposed acquisitions would increase that control 
t o 4.2 per cent and would place 11 of the 133 banks in Montana under 
Applicant's control. On the basis of the evidence of record, the Board 
c°ncludes that Applicant's acquisition of the four banks proposed would 
n°t result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination or con-
sP*-racy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize in any area relevant to 
the subject applications. 

176 
-4-
Turning to the probable impact on existing and potential 
competition of each of Applicant's proposed acquisitions, the record 
reflects that Eastside Bank is located in and its primary service area"'' 
constitutes the southeastern section of Great Falls. Five other banks, 
all subsidiaries of registered bank holding companies, and including 
Applicant's subsidiary Central Bank of Montana (deposits of $6 million), 
a r e located outside of Bank's primary service area in Great Falls' main 
business district. The four banks not affiliated with Applicant have 
dePosits ranging from $10 to $58 million, and each competes within Eastside 
Bank's primary service area. If Applicant acquires Eastside Bank, approxi-
mately 5 per cent of the total deposits and 4 per cent of the loans in the 
Great Falls area would be controlled by Applicant. 
Competition among the banks in Great Falls appears to be vigorous 
and there is no indication that such competition, including that offered 
^thin Eastside Bank's primary service area, will be significantly lessened 
b y applicant's acquisition of Eastside Bank. On the contrary, considering 
E 
astside Bank's size, its affiliation with Central Bank under Applicant's 
X;nership offers a potential for increased competition for the area's four 
lar2er banks. 
Except for Central Bank, none of Applicant's subsidiary banks is 
°cated within 65 miles of Eastside Bank; and the three proposed subsidiary 
are 
1 respect to each of the proposed acquisitions, the primary service 
that from which Applicant estimates that at least 75 per cent of 
held 
° s i t s o f individuals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC deposits") 
by the bank involved are derived. 

banks are located, respectively, 65, 90, and 152 miles from Eastside Bank. 
Central Bank is situated 2-1/4 miles from Eastside Bank, and derives 
approximately 10 per cent of its total IPC deposits, 6 per cent of its 
commercial and industrial loans, and 21 per cent of its consumer loans 
from Eastside Bank's primary service area. Uhile the volume of business 
thus derived from Eastside Bank's service area is significant in relation 
t o the total of such deposits and loans held by Eastside Bank, any judgment 
actual and potential competition between Central Bank and Eastside Bank 
must be made in light of the facts that (1) Eastside Bank was organized 
bV individuals who are the principal shareholders of Applicant and both 
Central Bank and Eastside Bank are presently affiliated through the aforesaid 
common ownership; (2) Eastside Bank has been in existence for only 10 months 
anc*> presumably, a significant portion of Central Bank's business derived 
from Eastside Bank's primary service area predated the latter bank's organ-
isation; and (3) Eastside Bank derives no deposit business from Central 
Bank's primary service area. While denial of this application could result 
i n the termination of the aforementioned affiliation through the sale of 
Eastside Bank, the ultimate competitive benefit that might be realized could 
measurably less than the benefit to result from approval of Applicant's 
pr°posal. As earlier stated, Eastside Bank's present competitors other than 
central Bank are all subsidiaries of bank holding companies. Two of these 
banl:s, located 2-1//; and 3 miles, respectively, from Eastside Bank, are 
Subsidiar ies of the same holding company and are $53 million and $10 million 
. 
- 
• 
iri deposit size. The third competing bank, 2-1/4 miles from Eastside Bank, 

< <1 
-6-
has approximately $42 million in deposits, while the fourth competitor, 
2-1/2 
miles from Eastside Bank, has deposits of $25 million. Eastside 
Bank's acquisition by Applicant will not reduce the number of alternative 
banking sources now available to the area, and Bank's ability to compete 
successfully with its larger area competitors would appear more certain as 
a subsidiary of Applicant than if it were to operate as an independent in-
stitution. 
or as presently affiliated. 
Pondera Bank and Valier Bank are both located in Pondera County, 
some 26 miles apart. If Applicant acquired Pondera Bank it would control 
per cent of the total deposits in the county; acquisition of both 
Pondera Bank and Valier Bank would give Applicant control of 23 per cent of 
Such deposits. Pondera Bank's competitor would control the remaining 
^ per cent of the county deposits, 
Pondera Bank, with deposits of $1.3 million, is the smaller of 
tl7° banks located in Conrad, Bank's primary service area. Its competitor 
l n Conrad, Farmers State Bank, has deposits of $9.7 million. No other 
bar*s compete within Pondera Bank's service area. Four banks ranging 
i n deposit size from $1.3 million to $9 million are located 25 to 
27 
niiles from Conrad. One of these is Valier Bank, proposed to be 
acquired by Applicant. The closest of Applicant's present subsidiary 
°anks to Pondera Bank is Central Bank in Great Falls. In view of the 65 miles 
that separate the two banks, and considering Pondera Bank's size, competition 
betl;een the two banks is found to be insignificant, and the potential for 
c°mpetition unlikely. As earlier stated, Pondera Bank's principal competitor 
i s located two blocks from Bank and is appro3:imately eight times Bank's size. 

W f i O 
4 < ^ 
-7-
The competitive situation presently existing between these banks would be 
virtually unchanged by Applicant's acquisition of Pondera Bank inasmuch 
as present competition reflects the afore-described affiliation existing 
between Applicant and Pondera Bank through their common ownership. 
Valier Bank, 26 miles northwest of Conrad with deposits of 
million, is the only bank located in Valier, Bank's primary service 
area. The next closest banks are two banks located in Shelby, some 25 milei 
from Valier and the two banks in Conrad. Applicant's closest subsidiary 
bank 
it 
to Valier is Central Bank, 90 miles to the southeast of Valier. Neither 
n°r Pondera Bank, Applicant's proposed subsidiary, competes to any sig-
nificant degree with Valier Bank. For the reasons set forth in discussing 
p , 
n d era Bank, the Board is unable to foresee any significant competition 
arising between Valier Bank and any of Applicant's present and proposed 
subsidiaries. 
Missoula Bank, Applicant's proposed fourth subsidiary bank, is 
loc ated in Missoula, Montana, some 132 miles northwest of Butte. Missoula 
Bank's 
loc 
primary service area is the City of Missoula in which there are 
ated four banks in addition to Missoula Bank. Two of these banks, sub-
diaries of a registered bank holding company, are located within one mile 
0 f Missoula Bank and have total deposits of $29 million and $7 million, 
espectively. The remaining two banks in Missoula, with respective total 
deP°sits of $27 million and approximately $1 million, are affiliated through 
Ctnm°n ownership and common officers. Missoula Bank is fourth in size of 
110 five banks, holding 2.7 per cent of the total deposits of the banks in 

1773 
-35-
Hissoula. The two largest banks in Missoula combined hold 36 per cent of 
the total deposits. Applicant's acquisition of Missoula Bank would not 
reduce the existing number of banking alternatives in the affected area. 
Applicant's Butte subsidiary, Miners Bank of Montana, is a $12 million 
institution serving principally the Butte area. Neither it nor any of 
Applicant's present or proposed subsidiaries compete within the area pri-
marily served by Missoula Bank. In view of the deposit size and existing 
^filiations of Missoula Bank's present competitors, and considering the 
Pre-existing common o^mership affiliation between Missoula Bank and Applicant, 
there i s n o r e ason to believe that Applicant's acquisition of Missoula Bank 
effect any significant change in the competition now offered by the 
Missoula area banks. 
Review of the record in each of the four applications before the 
Board satisfies the Board that none of the four acquisitions proposed is 
likely to present a sufficiently greater competitive force with respect to 
Co^peting institutions serving the areas involved as to present a considera-
te 
° n adverse to approval. On the contrary, with respect to all but the 
Vali 
l e r Bank, Applicant's control of the banks proposed would provide a 
S°mei;hat greater competitive force in areas in uhich bank holding company 
u^sidiaries or otherwise affiliated banks are now operating. The Board 
°ncludes that consummation of the proposed transactions would not sub-
tantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor in any other 
banner 
r restrain trade in any relevant section of the country. 

• 
. 1771 
-9-
the need for strengthening its capital position, particularly in relation 
to the purchase for cash of the shares of each of the four banks. In this 
connection, Applicant has given assurance that should approval be given to 
cne acquisitions proposed, such acquisitions will not be consummated unless 
until cash with which to pay for the shares of the banks has been raised 
hy sale of Applicant's stock, or a firm and unconditional commitment to pro-
vide sufficient funds from the sale of Applicant's stock for the purchase of 
t h e banks has been given by a reliable and independent securities underwriter. 
The Board has analyzed the pro forma financial statement submitted by 
vV v;-1 
Applicant 
with respect to its proposal to raise additional capital and is 
satiSfied with its reasonableness in the light of the obligation to be 
incurred i n the purchase of the banks' stock. In offering no objection to 
A 
^PUcant's proposed acquisitions, the Montana Superintendent of Banks 
a avi s e d t h a t h l s o o s i t t o n V7as conditioned upon Applicant's aforementioned 
commitment for strengthening its capital position. Assuming the accomplish-
m e n t of its proposed capital improvement plan, the Board finds Applicant's 
U r e operating prospects to be satisfactory. 
Financial and nmna^erial^ resources J^nd^jjture prospects. - The 
financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its present and proposed 
subsidiary banks are generally satisfactory. While the future prospects of 
the four banks are reasonably satisfactory, if their operation continues 
under the existing affiliation, the banks' prospects are believed to be 
more favorable as subsidiaries of Applicant. 
Regarding Applicant's future prospects, in connection with its 
submission of these applications, Applicant has stated its recognition of 

-10-
Convenience, needs, and welfare of the areas involved. -
Applicant's representations with respect to the effect of its proposals 
i 
0 n the convenience, needs, and welfare of the four areas involved are, 
in 
Najor respects, identical. There is no showing made of any substantial 
listing deficiency in bank services in any of the areas affected. As to 
each application, the record reflects that the communities affected are 
adequately served by existing facilities. However, consistent with approval 
0 1 these applications is the fact that if approval is denied, one or more 
° f t h e banks involved might cease its common oxmership affiliation with 
Applicant - an occurrence that could result in a lessening of the quality 
2nd quantity of service now being provided. Consummation of Applicant's 
°Posal, in the Board's judgment, would afford a more assured and more con-
Venient-
source of banking service than would be the case if any or all the 
atlUs °Perated as independent institutions. 
The Board concludes that the evidence relating to the convenience 
2nd 
needs of the areas involved with respect to each of the applications is 
**®nsisf 
ent with and offers slight weight for approval of the applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
ntained i n the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in sec-
tion 3( \ 
of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
a c t ^ 
n s would be in the public interest and that subject to the conditions 
f°rth in the Board's Orders of this date the application should be 
^Proved. 
1968. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
Item No. 8 
5/13/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 14, 1968 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This refers to your request dated March 25, 1968 
for a report on S. 3215, a bill "To extend the authority 
of domestic banks to pay interest on time deposits of 
foreign governments at rates differing from those appli-
cable to domestic depositors". This bill would extend to 
October 15, 1971 the exemption of certain foreign govern-
mental time deposits from interest rate limitations im-
posed by the Board of Governors and by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation. It would also modify the present 
provisions of this statutory exemption to make clear that 
deposits received prior to the extended expiration date 
would continue to be exempt thereafter. 
On January 18, 1968 the Board of Governors amended 
its Regulation Q to permit member banks to agree to con-
tinue to pay interest, even after expiration of the statu-
tory exemption, at rates higher than otherwise permissible 
on .such foreign time deposits which are received, extended 
or renewed (for not more than two years) prior to expira-
tion of the Board's flexible authority under section 19(j) 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371b) to prescribe 
different maximum rates of interest, or to refrain from 
prescribing any maximum rate, for different types of de-
posits. Pursuant to similar authority the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation adopted a comparable amendment to its 
regulation regarding payment of interest on deposits. 
Statutory exemption for such deposits is not es-
sential so long as the Board's above described flexible 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
1777 
The Hon. John Sparkman, Chairman:--#2 
authority under section 19(j) remains in effect. However, 
if the Congress sees some advantage in the certainty of 
specific legislation - contrasted with the flexibility of 
regulatory authority - the Board would raise no objection 
to the enactment of S. 3215. 
Sincerely, 
l
/ 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
S-20^6' ' -
Item No. 9 
5/13/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B D A R D 
Hay 29, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has recently had occasion to review measures taken 
by the Board and Federal Reserve Banks for maintaining high standards 
of conduct and integrity throughout the Federal Reserve System. 
Consideration of the results of this review and the many 
important functions of trust performed by the Board and Reserve Banks 
on behalf of the Government leads the Board to suggest that Reserve 
Banks should (1) make certain that their written rules on standards 
of employee conduct are as high and as comprehensive as those contained 
in the Board's regulation issued pursuant to Executive Order 11222, and 
(2) provide their employees with annual reminders containing a summary 
of such rules, including the duty, as stated in the Code of Ethics, to 
expose corruption wherever discovered," and information on confidential 
channels for reporting instances of corruption or breach of trust. 
A copy of the Board's revised regulation and a copy of its 
revised summary of rules of conduct which is to accompany the annual 
reminder to Board employees are enclosed for your information. The 
Board will appreciate receiving a copy of each Bank's summary of 
rules of conduct. 
The Board's examiners have been instructed to ascertain 
during the course of the regular annual examination of Reserve Banks 
whether Reserve Banks have adopted rules on employee responsibilities 
and conduct comparable to those adopted by the Board pursuant to 
Executive Order 11222, and whether they have provided their employees 
with annual reminders containing a summary of the rules of conduct, 
including the duty of all employees to "expose corruption wherever 
discovered," and information on confidential channels for reporting 
instances of corruption or breach of trust. 
Sincerely yours, 
^ 
J ( 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
or T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 J 7 7 M 
Item No. iO 
* 
5/13/68 
ce Correspondence 
Date May 9, 1968. 
^—Soayd of Gpyernors 
Subject: Recommpndations for improving 
measures to maintain the highest standards 
Lfimor Robertson 
of integrity throughout the Federal Reserve 
System. 
In order to improve measures for maintaining high standards of con-
duct and integrity throughout the Federal Reserve System, it is recommended: 
First, that Reserve Banks again review the Board's regula-
tion on "Employee Responsibilities and Conduct" (12CFR264.735) 
transmitted to the presidents of all Reserve Banks by letter 
•dated April 15, 1966, and make certain that standards of conduct 
adopted by Reserve Banks are as high and as comprehensive as 
those contained in the Board's regulation issued pursuant to 
Executive Order 11222.1/ 
Second, that Reserve Banks provide their employees with 
annual reminders containing a summary of the Bank's rules of 
conduct, including the duty to "expose corruption wherever 
discovered, "2/ and information on confidential channels for 
reporting instances of corruption or breach of trust. 
Third, that the Board's examiners be instructed to ascer-
tain during the course of the regular annual examination of 
Reserve Banks whether Reserve Banks have adopted rules on 
employee responsibilities and conduct comparable to those 
adopted by the Board pursuant to Executive Order 11222, and 
whether they have provided their employees with annual re-
minders containing a summary of the rules of conduct including 
the duty of all employees to "expose corruption wherever dis-
covered" and information on confidential channels for reporting 
instances of corruption or breach of trust. 
y 
The Board's regulation covers the following subjects: 
(1) gifts, enter-
tainment, favors, and loans; (2) outside employment; (3) financial interests; 
(4) use of Board property; (5) misuse or disclosure of unpublished informa-
tion; (6) indebtedness; (7) gambling; (8) general conduct; (9) statement of 
employment and financial interests; and (10) employee responsibility. 
2/ 
This duty or standard of conduct is contained in the Code of Ethics endorsed 
by the Congress of the United States in Concurrent Resolution 175--85th 
Congress and transmitted to the presidents of all Reserve Banks by letter 
dated September 16, 1958. 

1780 
: Board of Governors 
-2-
Fourth, that there be added to the summary of the Board's 
rules of conduct that accompanies the annual reminder to Board 
employees, the duty to "expose corruption wherever discovered," 
and guidance to the effect that instances of misconduct may be 
reported, in confidence, to one's supervisor, the Director of 
the Division of Personnel Administration, or a Member of the 
Board, as appropriate. 
A proposed letter transmitting the substance of these recommenda-
tions to the Reserve Banks is attached. 
Attachment. 

S&ssgfo. 
1781 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 11 
5/13/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 14, 1968 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
°ear Mr. Hayes: 
I n accordance with the tentative arrangements made 
with Assistant Vice President Quackenbush by the Board's Division 
or Examinations, it is understood that your Bank will make avail-
of m 
-3 P e r i ° d ° f o n e m o n t h> beginning June 3, 1968, the services 
Mr. William J. Milusich, an examiner in the Bank Examinations 
epartment of your Bank. While in Washington, Mr. Milusich will be 
ssigned to the foreign banking section of the Board's Division of 
laminations and will be designated as a Federal Reserve Examiner. 
Y 
It is understood that the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
ork will absorb all of Mr. Milusich's salary and travel expenses 
connection with the assignment. 
T h e Board of Governors appreciates the cooperation of 
y ur Bank in making the services of Mr. Milusich available during 
this period. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
ITEM NO. 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
5 / 1 3 / 6 8 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(J 12) HA 7-2320 
May 13, 1968 
Mr. R. C. Levis, Cashier 
Joy State Bank 
Joy, Illinois 
Daor Mr, Levis: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank waives the requiraaent of six 
Booths* notice of withdrawal from the Federal Reserve System, 
ttoder the provisions of Section 206.10(c) of the Board's 
Regulation H, your institution may accomplish termination of 
its membership at any time within eight months from the date 
that notice of intention to withdraw frcta membership was given. 
Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bonk of Chicago of the 
Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, such stock 
will be cancelled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership 
be returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
/ lt' "t -V L l* ,/ ' ' •' —' 
Lei and Ross 
Vice President 
cc - Board of Governors 
C O P Y 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
B A N FRANCISCO, C A U F O R N I A 
04120 
« * 13. m a 
Mr. Robjrt H. Steele, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California 94120. 
Dear Mr. Steele: 
On behalf of the Boa*£l of Governor^ of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting ^nder delected authority, 
thi6 Bank has approved an extensron to November 17, 1968, 
of the time within^htclr^tells F a r ^ o ^ n k may establish 
a branch office at the intersectionW First Street and 
Shaw Avenue, Fresno, California. 
\ 
This extension is granted in connection with 
'(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. JenningE, 
Vice President. 
