•pT, 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 2, 1969 

o ^ o o 
- p m 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Tuesday, September 2, 1969. 
The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification at 
the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of First National Bank of Scotch 
Plains, Scotch Plains, New Jersey, into Franklin State Bank, Franklin 

9/2/69 
-2-
Township, New Jersey, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little competition existing between First 
National Bank of Scotch Plains and Franklin State Bank, 
Franklin Township, while there is some potential for 
increased competition between them. The overall compet-
itive effect of the proposed transaction would be slightly 
adverse. 
Delegation of authority. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated August 28, 1969, 
recommending that the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority be 
amended to permit the Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
to authorize the issuance of, and certain additions to, the Board's list 
of over-the-counter margin stocks and to delegate to the Federal Reserve 
Banks authority to approve applications for termination of registration 
by persons registered pursuant to Regulation G, Securities Credit by Persons 
other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers. 
The proposed amendments were approved unanimously, effective 
September 4, 1969. A copy of the amendments in the form transmitted for 
publication in the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 1. 
Baltimore Branch alterations. Unanimous approval was given to a 
telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond approving the awarding 
of appropriate contracts for alterations to the Baltimore Branch building 
in connection with the Washington-Baltimore regional check clearing center 
and authorizing an expenditure of approximately $125,000, including a 
contingency allowance of $13,000. A copy of the telegram is attached as 
Item No. 2. 

9/2/69 
-3-
Recommendations of the Administrative Conference. There had 
been distributed a memorandum from Mr. Forrestal dated August 27, 1969, 
relating to a request from the Chairman of the Administrative Conference 
of the United States for a report on the recommendations adopted at the 
Plenary Session of the Conference in December 1968, as they might be 
applicable to the activities of the Board. 
The memorandum reviewed briefly the purposes and functions of 
the Conference and the background against which it was organized, and 
then commented on each of the eight recommendations of the Conference. 
Mr. Forrestal expressed the view that, for reasons set forth in the 
memorandum, four of the recommendations were either inapplicable to or 
required no implementing action by, the Board. Of the remaining recommen-
dations, three were more or less routine. The first related to the 
development of adequate hearing facilities, and Mr. Forrestal recommended 
that the General Counsel or his delegee be designated to work with General 
Services Administration in the development of a program to improve such 
facilities. 
The second recommendation concerned the preparation of material 
for use in the U.S. Government Organization Manual and it was Mr. Forrestal' 
recommendation that the Board continue to assign this function to an office 
having the ability to achieve the desired "brevity, clarity, and general 
excellence of presentation required", as well as to include in the 
description of the System's organization and functions information as to 
how more detailed information might be obtained. 

/ O O 
9/2/69 
-4-
With 
respect to the third recommendation, having to do with a 
revision of published statements of statutory authorities and rules in 
the Code of Federal Regulations, Mr. Forrestal recommended that the General 
Counsel or his delegee be assigned responsibility for determining that 
the cited authorities were complete, accurate, and current. 
The remaining recommendation presented more of a problem. It 
related to the representation of the poor in agency rule-making of direct 
consequence to them. Several procedures were suggested by the Conference, 
which also recommended that Congress enact legislation creating a People's 
Counsel Corporation to represent the interests of the poor in all Federal 
administrative rule-making substantially affecting the poor. (No imple-
menting action by the Board would be required on the latter.) After 
analysis of the impact of the proposal, Mr. Forrestal recommended that 
the Conference be advised that, while the Board had no program directly 
involving the poor, it would utilize procedures suggested by the Conference 
to info 
rm the poor of their interests if the Board engaged in rule—making 
that would affect the poor substantially. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft reply to the Chairman of 
the Administrative Conference reflecting Mr. Forrestal1s recommendations. 
Following comments by Mr. Forrestal in further explanation of 
certain points, Mr. Hexter called attention to inquiries concerning 
representation of the poor that had been received from a group led by 
Mr. Ralph Nader. Mr. Hexter cautioned that any procedure agreed to by 

Kt 4 t >U 
9/2/69 
-5-
the Board in light of the recommendations of the Administrative Conference 
might have far-reaching consequences to which careful consideration should 
be given. 
Mr. Forrestal indicated that the proposed reply to the Adminis-
trative Conference could be considered as an interim report and that the 
Board would not be precluded, as the situation developed, from bringing 
segments of the poor into the Board's deliberations as it saw fit. 
Mr. Forrestal added that the answer proposed was the same type of general 
response that had been made to a questionnaire submitted to the Board 
by Senator Kennedy earlier this year. 
There followed a discussion of procedures that might be followed 
for ascertaining the views and needs of the poor, with individual members 
of the Board offering various suggestions, but there was general agreement 
that the Board's procedures in this regard were adequate at the present 
time. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the letter to the Chairman 
of the Administrative Conference, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 3. 
Mortgage commitment survey. In a memorandum dated August 28, 1969, 
Mr. Partee proposed that an informal survey be undertaken by the Federal 
Reserve Banks around the middle of this month to ascertain current and 
prospective mortgage commitment volume at leading representative commercial 
banks, mortgage companies, savings banks, and insurance companies. An 
attached draft of letter set forth the questions that would be asked of 
the parties interviewed. 

2737 
9/2/69 
-6-
The questions would be similar to those asked in last May's 
survey, with certain modifications designed to obtain types of information 
considered particularly relevant at this stage. A survey of savings and 
loan associations would be made by the Federal Home Loan Banks at about 
the same time. It was expected that the results of the surveys would be 
available for summarization as background information for the October 7 
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
Following explanatory comments by the staff, the proposed survey 
was authorized. Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of the letter sent to 
the Reserve Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2738 
Item No. 1 
9/2/69 
TITLE 12—-BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265--RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Specific Functions Delegated tc Board Employees and Federal 
Reserve Banks 
1. Effective immediately, § 265.2(c) is amended by adding subparagraph (13) 
and § 265.2(f) is amended by adding subparagraph (17), as follows: 
§ 265.2 Speoif ic functiens^ delegated to Board, employees and Federal 
Reserve 1 Vur.ks,. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(c) The Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation (or in his 
absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
* 
* 
* 
* 
it 
* 
(13) Under the provisions of §g 207.2(f), 220,2(e), and 221.3(d) of this 
chapter (Regulations G, T, and U, respectively) to approve issuance of the 
list of OTC margin stocks and to add, omit, or remove any stock in 
circumstances indicating that such change is necessary or appropriate in 
the public interest* 
f 
-k 
.v 
* 
' * 
. * 
* 
(f) Each Federal Reserve Bank is authorized, as to member banks or other 
Indicated organizations headquartered in its district: 
*
*
*
*
*
* 
(17) Under the provisions of § 207<>l(b) of this chapter (Regulation G), 
to approve applications for termination of registration by persons who 
a re registered pursuant to § 207.1(a). 

2733 
-2-
2a. The purpose of these amendments is to delegate certain functions of 
the Board relating to administration of margin requirements (Regulations G, 
T, and U) so far as they apply to securities traded over the counter, 
b. The provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, relat-
ing to 
notice anc public participation and to deferred effective dates, 
were not followed in connection with the adoption of this amendment, because 
the rules contained therein are procedural in nature and accordingly do not 
constitute substantive rules subject to the requirements of such section* 
Adopted September 4, 1969, 
By order of the Board of Governors * 
(Signed) Robert P» Forrestal 
Robert P, Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SFAL) 

I t e m No. 
T E L E G R A M 
g/2/69 
I c i c cn 
lvi o r 
cr o u I r r 
' 
' 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD O F GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
• September 2, 1969 
HEFLIN - RICHMOND 
Board approves awarding of appropriate contracts for alterations to 
the Baltimore Branch in connection with the Washington-Baltimore 
regional clearing center as described in Mr. Black's letter of 
August 21, and authorizes expenditure of approximately $125,000 
which includes a contingency allowance of $13,000. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
F0RRESTA.L 

Oh-< si ^ 
a- 7 41. 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N • R 5 
C F T H E 
W A S H I N G T O N . • . C. 
2 0 S S I 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 3 
9/2/69 
September 3, 1969 
Mr. Jerre S. Williams, Chairman, 
Administrative Conference of the United States, 
726 Jackson Place, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 20506 
Dear Mr. Williams: 
This is in reply to your request Inviting consideration by 
the Board of Governors of the eight recommendations adopted at the 
Plenary Session of the Administrative Conference of the United States 
held on December 10 and 11, 1968, as they may have application to the 
activities of the Board. 
dations, and has concluded that Recommendations 4, 5(B), 6, 7, and 8 
are either inapplicable to, or require no action by, the Board. 
Recommendations 4, 7, and 8 are, as you have indicated in your letter, 
of specialized applicability. Recommendation 5(B) requires Congressional 
action, and Recommendation 6 has been determined inapplicable to the 
Board because the Board does not have a substantial caseload of formal 
adjudications requiring the establishment of intermediate appellate 
boards. 
The Board has further determined that Recommendations 1, 2, 
3, and 5(A) are applicable to the Board, and the Board has approved 
such recommendations insofar as they relate to its own activities. 
With respect to the recommendations determined applicable 
to it, the Board has implemented such recommendations in the following 
manner: 
Recommendation No. 1 - Adequate Hearing Facilities. - The 
Board has designated its General Counsel, or his delegee, to 
work with the General Services Administration in the procurement 
and planning of hearing facilities. 
The Board has c o n s i d e r e d each o f 
t h e C o n f e r e n c e ' s 
recommen-

* * 
/ 
Mr. Jerre S. Williams 
-2-
Recommendation No. 2 - U.S. Government Organization Manual. -
The Board has in the past assigned the writing of material for 
submission to the United States Government Organization Manual 
to an office having the competence to achieve the brevity, 
clarity, and general excellence of presentation required to 
serve the purpose of the Manual and to reflect credit on the 
Government. The Board will continue this assignment and, in 
addition, will continue to include in the description of its 
organization and functions information concerning how more 
detailed knowledge of the agency may be obtained. 
Recommendation No. 3 - Published Statement of Statutory 
Authorities and Rules. - The Board has assigned to its General 
Counsel, or his delegee, responsibility for reviewing all of the 
Board's rules published in the Code of federal Regulations to 
determine if the cited authorities are complete, accurate, and 
current. 
Recommendation No. 5(A) - Representation of the Poor in 
Agency Rulemaking of Direct Consequence to Them. - The Board's 
statutory responsibilities for the formulation and implementation 
of monetary policy, and for bank regulation, do not involve any 
programs relating directly to the economically underprivileged. 
The activities of the Federal Reserve System, however, have an 
important, effect on the economy and, to that extent, have an 
impact, albeit an indirect one, on the poor in our society. Not-
withstanding the Board's indirect involvement in rulemaking con-
cerning the poor, it is prepared to utilize as many of the proce-
dures suggested by the Conference as are feasible, practicable, 
and necessary to assure that the poor are fully informed of any 
actions taken by the Board which might have a substantial impact 
on them. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

2743 
B D A R D G F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
9/2/69 
A D D R E S S 
o r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B D A R D 
September 2, 1969 
Dear Sir: 
The Board would appreciate having a capsule report of 
your impressions concerning the current situation and near-term 
outlook in the residential mortgage market in your District, to be 
forwarded to reach the Board not later than Friday, September 19. 
In order to parallel a simil-ar Federal Home Loan Bank 
survey of savings and loan associations, your report should reflect 
informal interviews with some (perhaps 15 to 25) representative 
bank and nonbank lenders in your District other than savings and loan 
associations—i.e., commercial banks, mutual savings banks, life 
insurance companies, and mortgage companies. These interviews should 
elicit responses to the attached questions, which generally parallel 
those asked in last IJay's survey. Interviews may be conducted at 
any time after September 7, so long as summaries of the findings 
reach the Board by the deadline indicated above. 
The questions to be asked are included in the attached 
questionnaire. After surveying all respondents, please summarize 
your impressions of typical District conditions in brief narrative 
form. In doing so, please comment on any striking differences 
among types of lenders, properties, or areas, and any other unusual 
developments of interest. Of special interest in this survey will 
be findings that throw light on the relative importance of mortgage 
credit availability versus mortgage credit costs and nonrate terms 
in influencing market supply ana demand. In that connection, 
comments will be particularly helpful on responses to Questions 7, 
8> 13, and 14. In replying, please take each question in turn and 
indicate, where appropriate, the total number of respondents of 
each type that chose each of the various multiple-choice answers. 

The reports for all Districts will be tabulated and 
summarized by the Board's staff, along with the findings of the 
Federal Home Loan Banks, for distribution in the Green Book of 
October 7. (For your reference purposes, the survey made last 
y w a s summarized in an attachment to the Green Book of ;.'ay 21.) 
Survey replies should be sent to the Secretary's Office, if the 
reply is made by letter, an original plus three copies would be 
appreciated. L'eanwhile, questions regarding the survey should 
be addressed to L'r. Robert Fisher at the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Attachment. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 

ATTACHMENT 
MORTGAGE MARKET SURVEY QUESTIONNAIRE 
I- Savings and Cash Flow Prospects 
1. (For commercial banks and savings banks.) Aside from any 
change resulting from seasonal influences, how do you expect that your 
net savings inflow (i.e., new savings minus withdrawals) will change over 
the next 3 months? 
(For commercial banks, include consumer or personal-
type savings; exclude large negotiable C D s . ) 
(a) up; (b) essentially 
unchanged; (c) down moderately; (d) down considerably; (e) down sharply 
(one-third or more). 
2. (For life insurance companies.) 
A. Aside from any change resulting from seasonal influences, 
how do you expect that your cash flow potentially available for invest-
ment in residential mortgages will change over the next 3 months? 
(a) up; (b) essentially unchanged; (c) down moderately; (d) down 
considerably; (e) down sharply (one-third or more). 
B. In making this estimate, how do you expect that your policy 
loan demand will change over the next 3 months? 
(a) up sharply (one-
third or more); (b) up considerably; (c) up moderately; (d) essentially 
unchanged; (e) down. 
*** 1 - 4 Family Home Properties 
3. (For commercial banks and mortgage companies.) Aside from 
any change resulting from seasonal influences, the dollar volume of new 
commitments being made by your institution for short-term construction 
loans, on homes row as compared with last spring is: (a) larger; 
(b) essentially unchanged; (c) moderately smaller; (d) considerably 
smaller; (e) sharply smaller (down one-third or more). 
4. (For commercial banks and mortgage companies.) Aside from 
any change resulting from seasonal influences, how do you expect that the 
dollar volume of your new short-term construction loan commitments on 
homes will change over the next 3 months? 
(a) up; (b) essentially 
unchanged; (c) down moderately; (d) down considerably; (e) down sharply 
(one-third or more). 
5. (For all respondents.) Aside from any change resulting 
from seasonal influences, the dollar volume of new commitments being 
made by your institution on long-term home mortgages now as compared 
with last spring is: 
(a) larger; (o) essentially unchanged; 
(c) moderately smaller; (d) considerably smaller; (e) sharply smaller 
(one-third or more). 

2746 
-2-
6. (For all respondents.) Aside from any change resulting 
from seasonal influences, how do you expect that the dollar volume of; 
your new long-term^ 
home mortgage lean commitments will 
change over the next 3 months? ""(a) up; (1b) essentially unchanged; 
(c) down moderately; (d) down considerably; (e) dox^n sharply (one-
third or more). 
7. (For all respondents.) What, in your judgment, is the 
impact of present levels of mortgage interest rates and discounts on 
demands for mortgage credit by prospective home buyers? 
(a) relatively 
unimportant; (b) discouraging to some prospective home buyers; (c) an 
important factor discouraging many prospective home buyers. 
8. (For all respondents.) What, in your judgment, is the 
impact of other mortgage terms and conditions (such as maturities, down-
payments, or borrower income requirements) on present demands for mort-
gage credit by prospective home buyers? 
(a) relatively unimportant; 
<b) discouraging to some prospective home buyers; (c) an important 
factor discouraging many prospective home buyers. 
.5-or More Unit Apartment Properties 
9. 
(For commercial banks and mortgage companies.) Aside from 
a ny change resulting from seasonal influences, the dollar volume of new 
commitments being made by your institution for short-term construction 
ioans on apartment houses now as compared with last spring is: 
larger; (b) essentially unchanged; (c) moderately smaller; 
considerably smaller; (e) sharply smaller (down one-third or more). 
10. 
(For commercial banks and mortgage companies.) Aside from 
any change resulting from seasonal influences, how do you expect that the 
Volume of your new short-term construction loan commitments on apartment 
houses will change over the next 3 months? 
(a) up; (b) essentially 
unchanged; (c) down moderately; (d) down considerably; (e) down 
sharply (one-third or more). 
11. 
(For all respondents.) Aside from any change resulting 
from seasonal influences, the dollar volume of new commitments being made 
by your institution on long-term 
apartment-house mortgages 
now as compared with last spring is: (a) larger; (b) essentially 
unchanged; (c) moderately smaller; (d) considerably smaller; 
<<0 sharply smaller (down one-third or more). 

2747 
-2-
12. (For all respondents.) Aside from any change resulting 
m s e a sonal influences, how do you expect that the dollar volume of° 
your new lonq-tem. 
apartment-house nort<^_JjMn commitments 
( rs 
O V e r t h e n e x t 3 months? 
(a) up; (b) essentially unchanged; 
W 
down moderately; (d) down considerably; (e) down sharply (one-
tnird or more). 
1 3' 
( F o r 
respondents.) h'hat, in your judgment, is the 
impact of present levels of mortgage interest rates and discounts on 
emands for mortgage crcdit by prospective apartment-house developers? 
U ) 
relatively unimportant; (b) discouraging to some prospective devel-
opers; (c) an important factor discouraging many prospective developers. 
7.4. (?or all respondents.) What, in your judgment, is the 
mpact of other mortgage terms and conditions (such as maturities, loan-
o--value ratios,or debt-service coverage ratios) on present demands for 
mortgage crcdit by prospective apartment-house developers? 
(a) relatively 
unimportant; (b) discouraging to some prospective developers; (c) an 
important fa ctor discouraging many prospective developers. 
