MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 17, 1972 

1814 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 17, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr, Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The staff presented a review of domestic and international 
developments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings 
of the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical materials 
prepared for this review have been placed in the Board's files, along 
with copies of the individual briefings. 
Those who had attended the meeting specifically for the economic 
review then withdrew and the following joined the meeting: 
1/ Entered at point indicated in minutes. 
2/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1815 
7/17/72 
-2-
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Anderson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Dacotah Bank Holding Co., Aberdeen, South Dakota, to acquire 
shares of Lemmon Insurance Agency, Inc., Lemmon, South Dakota, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. The Board 
also approved transmittal of a letter to Dacotah Bank Holding Co. 
regarding a prepayment for the shares of Lemmon Insurance Agency. 
Copies of the order and the letter are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Governor Daane joined the meeting at this point. 
Reserve Bank budgets. With a memorandum dated June 19, 1972, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations presented its review of 
the proposed budgets of the Federal Reserve Banks and branches for the 
second half of 1972. 
In a memorandum dated June 27, 1972, the Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans recommended acceptance 
of the proposed budgets subject to the deferment of certain positions. 
The Board had briefly discussed the proposed budgets at its meeting on 
June 29, 1972, but had deferred action pending exploration of questions 

1818 
7/17/72 
-3-
raised by Governor Brimmer about increases in employment levels. 
In a 
memorandum dated July 13 the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
provided additional data on Reserve Bank employment levels. 
The Division's analysis of the budgets indicated that in most 
cases the Banks had made a concerted effort to comply with the Board's 
cost constraint programs, and that most budgeted increases were tied to 
high priority System programs. The Division recommended that the Board 
accept the budgets subject to the deferment of positions as outlined in 
the June 19 memorandum. 
At today's meeting Governor Brimmer indicated that the questions 
he had raised had been answered to his satisfaction. After brief dis-
cussion, the budgets of the respective Reserve Banks for the second half 
of 1972 were accepted subject to the modifications recommended with 
respect to requested exemptions. 
It was understood that the Banks would 
be so advised. A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston is attached as Item No. 3. Similar letters, reflecting vari-
ations for individual Districts, were sent to the other Reserve Banks. 
Proposed delegation of authority. 
In a memorandum dated July 10, 
1972, the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans 
recommended delegation of authority to Reserve Banks to approve Federal 
Reserve Bank officers' salaries at the Vice President level and below. 
The Banks would carry out this authority in accordance with annual guide-
lines from the Board setting forth salary ranges and other constraints. 

7/17/72 
-4-
At today's meeting it was noted that the existing guidelines 
were promulgated in 1971, and the proposed new guidelines were now 
being prepared by the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks and the Conference of Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Discussion indicated that a majority of the members present favored 
delegation of this authority. However, Governor Brimmer suggested that 
action be deferred until members of the Board had had the opportunity to 
review the proposed guidelines. 
Action was thereupon deferred until the proposed guidelines 
had been prepared. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1818 
Item No. 1 
7/17/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEli 
DACOTAH BANK HOLDING CO. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Lemmon Insurance Agency, Inc. 
Dacotah Bank Holding Co., Aberdeen, South Dakota, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(3) of the 
Act and 5 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire voting 
shares of Lemmon Insurance Agency, Inc., Lernmon, South Dakota 
("Lemmon Agency"), a company that engages in the activities of a 
general insurance agency in a community of less than 5,000 persons. 
Such activity has been determined by the Board to be closely related 
to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public 
interest factors, has been duly published (37 Federal Register 10757). 
The time for filing comments and views has expired, and the Board 
has considered all comments received in the light of the public 
interest factors set forth in g 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1343(c)). 
Applicant, the third largest banking organization in South 
Dakota, controls five banks with aggregate deposits of $43.0 million, 
representing 3.0 per cent of the total of commercial bank deposits 
in the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971 and 
represent bank holding formations and acquisitions through June 30, 
1972.) 

1819 
- 2 -
The Board approved Applicant's acquisition of the Bank 
Lemmon, Lemmon, South Dakota (deposits of $9,3 million), on 
APril 29, 1970 (1970 Bulletin 464), Lemmon Agency shares the 
quarters of Bank's main office in Lemmon (1970 population -
1>997) and also has an office at the Bank's branch in Bison 
(!970 population - 406). The building housing Bank's Bison office 
is the principal asset of Lemmon Agency, accounting for $176,000 
its $200,000 of total assets. Prior to the organization of 
Lemmon Agency in 1965, Bank engaged directly in the insurance 
agency business. 
Although Applicant has five insurance agency subsidiaries, 
the closest agency to Lemmon Agency is 90 miles away. It is unlikely 
that consummation of the proposal would eliminate any existing com-
petition nor does it appear likely that potential competition would 
b e eliminated. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that con-
summation of the proposal would result in any undue concentration 
resources, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound 
banking practices. Approval of the application would enable Appli-
Car*t and Bank to continue to provide a convenient source of insurance 
agency services in two communities, each with a population of less 
than 5,000. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
the record, the Board has determined that consummation of the 
Proposal herein can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to 
t h e public that outweigh possible adverse effects. 

1820 
- 3 -
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This determination 
is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of Reg-
ulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,U effective july 17, 1S72, 
(Signed) Tynan Sn.ith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
%J Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Brimmer, Sheohan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors ilitchell 
and Daane. 

i i p i f e 
^•irijfir 
1821 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
205S1 
Item No. 2 
7/17/72 
ADDRESS Cir TIBIAL. DDKRESPDNUENCC 
TO THE HOARD 
July 17, 1972 
•Ir• S. R. Dornbush, President 
Dacota!, Bank Holding Co. 
3>- 0V Box 1496 
Aberdeen, South Dakota 
57401 
Rear Mr. Dornbush: 
In the Board's consideration of Dacotah Bank Holding Co.'s 
aPplication pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act to acquire 63.2 per cent of the voting shares of Lemmon Insurance 
Agency, Inc., Lemmon, South Dakota, certain facts have come to the 
Sard's attention concerning an advance of funds made by Dacotah and 
USf'd for payment for shares of the insurance agency. 
The Board, has in the past indicated its disapproval of a 
W , k holding company financing the purchase of shares of a bank or 
^nk-related firm by the holding company's own officers or directors 
••^-h the expectation that, subject to Board approval, such shares will 
purchased by the holding company at a future date. The Board's 
0I-pO8i.i;icri to such financing arrangements is premised on the Board's 
Couc."iueion that structuring the transaction in such manner raises 
possible inferences that the bank holding company has acquired control 
the organisation involved without prior Board approval. 
Dacotah!s 
advance of funds for prepayment for shares of Lemmon Insurance Agency 
Raises an inference of similar nature. While the Board does not 
M i eve that further administrative action to ascertain whether Dacotah 
acquired control of shares of Lemmon Insurance Agency prior to 
r'Oard approval, would be in t;he public interest, should any such 
Prepayment arrangement take place in a future transaction involving 
3-«cotah, it will be subjected to careful staff scrutiny in relation 
c° a possible violation of Che Bank Holding Company Act. 
Very truly yours, 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

S f e * . 
f- r~ i-> r- n A i f "> r- r- FT rj\ 
/ 
£= V C I T IT KA 
7/17/72 
I&iOAJ 
B O A R D L1F G O V E R N O R E 
of" the 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
"< ' I ' j-'ii? ' 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL COHRESPDNOENCE 
', '/','•> 
TO THE BOARD 
•^Rvff.-- 
July 17, 1972 
o. 
Mr. Frank F. Morris 
President: 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear Mr, Morris: 
The Board accepts the proposed budget for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston as submitted with your letter of May 3.9, 
19,72. Kith this acceptance, the Board also approves a 
December 31, 1972, manpower level of 1,341 lull-time positions 
excluding those in disadvantaged youth or E. iZ. 0. programs. 
"it would be appreciated if the Board could continue to 
receive quarterly reports on employment, status on the 12th of the 
month following the end of the quarter. 
Very truly yours. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael -A. Greenspan 
Assistant Seerei:ary 
