Minutes for 
January 25, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

iCrio 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 25, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
t'V,, 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Rhinehart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Heller and Mr. Via, Senior Attorneys, Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Shull, Cleaver, Golden, Lawrence, and 
Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Lyon, and McClintock of the 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Veenstra, Chief, Financial Statistics Section, 
Division of Data Processing 

n
G n 
w i M o 
1/25/68 
-2-
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of Bank of Charlotte County, Drakes Branch, Virginia, into The Fidelity 
National Bank, Lynchburg, Virginia, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of the Bank of Charlotte County, 
Drakes Branch, and The Fidelity National Bank, Lynchburg, 
would eliminate a small amount of existing and potential 
competition, and the overall effect of the proposed trans-
action on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Governor Brimmer noted that the Research Department at Richmond 
had reached a conclusion that the proposed merger would have a substan-
tially adverse effect on competition. 
In response to his inquiry, Mr. 
Shull said that there had been discussions with the Reserve Bank regard-
ing analytical considerations relating to this and other cases, and 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the Banking Markets Section continue 
to discuss with the Reserve Banks the concepts embodied in the classi-
fications that the Board was using in its reports. 
Policy record entries. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from Mr. Broida dated January 23, 1968, submitting drafts of entries 
for the record of policy actions of the Federal Open Market Committee 
covering the meetings held on November 14, November 27, and December 12, 
1967, as revised to take account of comments received following dis-
tribution of preliminary drafts. Also submitted was a draft of pref-
atory statement for inclusion in the Annual Report. This was in a form 

o 
1/25/68 
-3-
similar to statements included in previous years except that reference 
was made to the practice currently in effect of making the policy record 
entries publicly available on a regular basis during the year. These 
materials were now submitted for approval by the Board for inclusion in 
its Annual Report for 1967. If approved, the entries would be distrib-
uted to the members of the Open Market Committee and other Reserve Bank 
Presidents, primarily for information but with an indication of the date 
by which any further comments should be submitted. 
i 
Under the usual procedure the entry for the November 14, 1967, 
f e t i n g would be released to the press about February 12, 1968, after 
final review by the Board, and those for the November 27 and December 12 
m e
etings about February 26 and March 11, respectively. However, the 
staff recommended that if, as frequently in the past, a request was 
received from Congressional committees for the 1967 policy record of 
the Federal Open Market Committee early in 1968, and in advance of the 
release dates indicated, the entries be released to the press at the 
same time they were supplied to the Congressional committees. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the entries for November 14, 
November 27, and December 12, and to the prefatory statement, for inclu-
sion in the Board's Annual Report, with the understanding that it was 
contemplated the entries would be released to the press, after final 
r
^view, at the approximate times indicated in February and March unless 
a
 request for the policy record was received from a Congressional source 

<>HQ 
1/25/68 
-4-
Prior to those dates, in which case the entries would be released to 
the press at the same time they were supplied to the Congress. 
Proposed revision of Regulation Y. There had been distributed 
a
 memorandum from the Legal Division dated January 22, 1968, submitting 
a
 Proposed revision of Regulation Y , Bank Holding Companies, that would 
incorporate into the regulation the substantive changes made in the law 
by 
the 1966 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
It was recom-
mended that the proposed revision be sent to the Federal Reserve Banks 
comment prior to publication in the Federal Register as an adopted 
regulation. 
Following comments by Mr. O'Connell on the proposed procedure, 
the recommendation of the Legal Division was approved unanimously. 
It 
W a
s understood that the revised Regulation Y need not be brought back 
t o
 the Board for further consideration unless changes in the draft were 
indicated in the light of Reserve Bank comments. 
Revision of bank merger application form. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated January 22, 
1968, submitting a proposed revision of the bank merger application form 
W 
70) 
developed by the Research, Legal, and Examinations Divisions in 
c
°nsultation with Governor Mitchell. The revision reflected certain 
c
hanges suggested by the Reserve Banks following their review of a 
d r a
f t form, as transmitted to them by letter dated November 1, 1967. 
It ta 
« 
was recommended that the revised application form be approved and 
P^ced in use immediately. 

1/25/68 
-5-
It was also recommended that the Delegation by the Board of 
Certain Functions of a Nonstatutory and Nonregulation Nature, adopted 
effective July 1, 1967, be amended to authorize the Director of the 
Division of Examinations (or in his absence the Acting Director) to 
Promulgate forms used by applicants in connection with mergers or con-
solidations of banks. Similar authority with respect to bank holding 
company forms had previously been delegated. 
Following comments by Mr. Solomon, unanimous approval was 
given to the recommendations of the Division of Examinations. 
The amendment to the Delegation by the Board of Governors of 
C e
rtain Functions of a Nonstatutory and Nonregulation Nature took the 
form of adding a subparagraph (4) to paragraph (c), as follows: 
(c) The Director of the Division of Examinations 
(or, in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
(4) To promulgate forms for use in connection with 
the administration of section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)). 
Employee salary structures (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval 
W a s
 given to a letter to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
except Richmond and San Francisco, regarding the raising of minimum 
rates of the employee salary structures in light of the increase in 
t h e
 minimum hourly wage to $1.60 effective February 1, 1968. A copy 
o f
 the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 

1/25/68 
-6-
Members of the staff not concerned with the following topics 
then withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Black, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Fry, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Nelson and Higgins of the Division of Data 
Processing 
Lagged reserve proposal (Item No. 2). In a distributed memo-
r a
ndum dated January 16, 1968, Governor Mitchell presented the recom-
m
endation of the Steering Committee for the Fundamental Reappraisal of 
the Discount Mechanism that the Board amend Regulation D, Reserves of 
Member Banks, so as to provide for (1) establishment of coincident one-
week reserve periods for reserve city and country banks; (2) calculation 
weekly average required reserves based upon average deposits two 
weeks earlier; (3) calculation of weekly average reserves held in sat-
isfaction for requirements based upon average vault cash held two weeks 
earlier; and (4) carrying forward to the next reserve week of either 
excesses or deficiencies averaging up to 2 per cent of required reserves. 
^ similar recommendation was adopted by the Conference of Presidents at 
its meeting on June 19, 1967. 
In essence, under the terms of the proposal all member banks 
would be placed on a one-week reserve period with required reserves 
^
a s
ed on deposits two weeks earlier; total reserves would be composed 
vault cash two weeks earlier and reserve balances in the current 

Aw 
1/25/68 
-7-
week; banks would be allowed to carry over to the next week excess 
reserves or deficiencies of up to 2 per cent of required reserves; but 
any portion of a carry-over not offset in the next period would be lost 
and could not be carried forward into an additional period. 
The recommendations were the result of extended studies of the 
subject by various System groups. Submitted with the memorandum were 
additional reports and papers discussing the technical aspects and 
summarizing findings and conclusions in connection therewith. The 
current memorandum commented on the advantages to be gained from the 
Proposed amendments. None of the advantages was regarded as major, 
but in total they were expected to alleviate a variety of needless and 
irritating pressures and produce a more smoothly functioning reserve 
^chanism. 
The memorandum contained the suggestion that prior to adoption 
the proposal be published in the Federal Register for comment. Attached 
t o
 the memorandum was a draft of proposed amendments to Regulation D 
that would accomplish the recommended changes. 
At today's meeting Governor Mitchell summarized the background 
a
gainst which the recommendations had been formulated and stated that 
^r. Black, Chairman of the Ad Hoc Subcommittee on Reserve Proposals, 
had been asked to be present in order to assist in answering questions 
t h
e Board might have. 

Aw 
1/25/68 
-8-
In commenting on the proposal, Mr. Black observed that the 
strongest support would be found in the bank relations area. He noted 
that a member bank was confronted with three major uncertainties relat-
ing to calculation of its reserve position: 
fluctuations in required 
reserves, movements in vault cash, and shifts in reserve balances. 
The proposed regulatory changes would eliminate the first two uncer-
tainties, and the ability to carry over to the next reserve week 
limited excesses or deficiencies would alleviate the third. There was 
the added factor that a member bank would not be so likely to have to 
resort to the discount window toward the end of a reserve period. 
It 
w
as expected that both member banks and Federal Reserve Banks would 
benefit from improved bank reserve management practices. 
With respect to monetary policy implications, Mr. Black con-
tinued, there was less agreement as to the advantages, but the studies 
indicated that the proposal would, among other things, reduce defensive 
°Pen market operations and reduce fluctuations in excess reserves. 
Mr. Brill agreed with Mr. Black that the benefits would be 
greatest in the area of bank relations. The other benefits did not 
a
PPear to him, or to Mr. Axilrod, to be as great as some envisaged. 
It was his understanding that the attitude of the Manager of the System 
°Pen Market Account toward the proposal was rather neutral, although 
n
°t negative. The plan would, of course, present problems in adjusting 
t o
 and interpreting new statistical patterns. However, the Division of 

1/25/68 
-9-
Research and Statistics was not registering a negative vote. Rather, 
it felt that the proposal should be considered more in terms of bank 
relationships than in terms of improvement of Desk operations. 
Mr. Axilrod said that he subscribed generally to the point of 
view expressed by Mr. Brill. There were a host of technical questions 
with respect to operations, and it was difficult to see at this junc-
ture just how the banks would react. There would be difficulties in 
interpreting the new statistics. He mentioned some of the areas where 
marginal benefits might result, but came back to the view that from the 
standpoint of monetary policy and System open market operations any 
advantages would be relatively minor. As Mr. Brill had stated, the 
chief advantages would accrue in the bank relations area. However, 
the proposal was one with which he could live. 
Mr. Holland stated that a recent check with the Desk confirmed 
the view that on balance the reaction was neutral; there would be some 
minor gains and some minor disadvantages. Advantages in the open mar-
ket and monetary policy areas would not of themselves be great enough 
to warrant the change in procedure, but the advantages to be gained 
from the standpoint of more efficient and effective reserve management 
by 
member banks were believed to be fairly significant. 
In the ensuing discussion members of the Board obtained clari-
fication of certain points, principally of a technical nature. 
Governor 
trimmer then raised a series of questions relating to the effect of the 

1/25/68 
-10-
Proposal on the process of policy making by the Federal Open Market 
Committee, whether the proposal would favor large banks as compared 
with the smaller banks, the possibility of adverse Congressional reac-
tion, and the effect, if any, on float. 
Mr. Black replied that it was expected that the banks would 
have better control of their reserve positions, and the System in its 
operations would be taking into consideration the same reserve figures 
a
s the banks. Consequently, the formulation of monetary policy should 
benefit from reductions in uncertainties, although this result could 
not be definitely predicted. As to member bank benefits from the pro-
posal, he would expect the greater gains to flow to the smaller banks, 
since they had less sophisticated techniques for estimating their 
reserve positions. 
In this connection he described a procedure con-
templated in the Fifth District whereby the member banks would be 
furnished statements regularly for their guidance. With respect to 
Congressional relations, Mr. Black indicated that he foresaw no par-
ticularly strong reaction, although others might have a better judgment 
in that regard. On the question of float, Mr. Black deferred to mem-
bers of the Board's staff who had estimated that neither an increase 
n
°r a decrease in float was to be anticipated. 
Governor Sherrill said that he would expect the plan to be well 
received by the banks, and that it might tend to make System membership 
s
°mewhat more attractive. He would expect the plan to be helpful to 

1/25/68 
-11-
the banks in the administration of their reserve positions, which in 
turn might result in greater responsiveness of the banking system to 
monetary policies. There would appear to be no major negative offsets. 
Accordingly, he would favor the proposal. 
Governor Mitchell stated that he felt any negative reaction on 
technical grounds was easily outweighed from the overall standpoint. 
It seemed to him that, if anything, Mr. Black had understated the 
interest of the banking community in a plan along the lines proposed. 
Sys tem membership had become more and more difficult to maintain, and 
a
ny proposal that would make membership more palatable was worthy of 
consideration. He would be interested in seeing what reactions to the 
Proposed amendments to Regulation D would be forthcoming if the amend-
ments were published in the Federal Register for comment. 
Governor Brimmer referred to a suggestion by some of the 
research staff that from a System standpoint the coupling of the lagged 
reserve plan with a graduated reserve requirement plan would be helpful. 
He stated that on balance he came away with the feeling that such a 
combination would be to the good. 
Mr. Brill replied that the basic reasoning behind the sugges-
tion, as he understood it, related to the mechanical and statistical 
Problems involved in instituting such changes separately, rather than 
a
ny fundamental benefit to be derived from combining them. He added 
that the conclusion of the majority of those in the System who had 

/O 
1/25/68 
-12-
considered the plans was that, all things considered, it would be 
preferable to move on the two proposals independently. 
In further discussion members of the staff commented on the 
salient points of alternative plans that had been proposed by various 
Parties and noted certain features in the recommended plan that seemed 
• 
Preferable. 
There appeared to be general agreement on the part of the Board 
that, taking into consideration the foreseeable effects of the proposed 
amendments, on balance the advantages outweighed the disadvantages. 
It 
was then agreed to publish the proposed amendments to Regulation D in 
the Federal Register with an invitation for comments. A copy of a 
related press release in the form in which it was subsequently issued 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
Regional check clearing arrangements. Mr. Black reported for 
the Board's information on the status of plans being made by the Fed-
e
ral Reserve Bank of Richmond to establish a regional check clearing 
a
rrangement in the Washington metropolitan area. Mr. Black added that 
the arrangement would be described in detail in a written communication 
from the Reserve Bank to the Board. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance, and Mr. Brill outlined the general structure of the forthcoming 
Annual Report of the Council of Economic Advisers, as indicated by 
Portions that the Board's staff had been requested to review in the 
V a
rious stages of drafting. 

1/25/68 
-13-
'^MtfJ: ' • 
The meeting then adjourned. 
n 
I 
t; a r> ya t- a 
Secretary's Note: On January 25, 1968, 
actions were taken on behalf of the Board 
under delegated authority as indicated by 
the following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item numbers 
indicated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to Security First Bank & Trust Co., 
Grand Haven, Michigan, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in Ferrysburg. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Els ton Bank & Trust Company, 
Crawfordsville, Indiana, approving the 
establishment of a branch in the Boule-
vard Mall Shopping Center. 

O f 
Aw 9 8 
BOARD CDF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 25, 1968. 
D e
ar Sir: 
As amended in September 1966, the Fair Labor Standards Act 
Provides for an increase in the minimum hourly wage to $1.60, effec-
tive February 1, 1968. 
The Board feels that it would be inappropriate for a Federal 
Reserve Bank to have an employees
1
 salary structure containing a grade 
r a
nge below $3,328 per year, irrespective of whether actual salaries 
Paid by the Bank are in excess of that level. Accordingly, you are re-
vested to give consideration to raising the minimum rates of all grades 
in your Head Office and Branch (if any) employees' salary structures 
which will be less than $3,328 as of February 1, without raising the 
Maximum of these ranges. The Board of Governors approves such adjust-
ments, if approved by your Board of Directors; 
The Board is aware that in the grade(s) affected, this will 
temporarily depart from the accepted concept of a uniform 35 per cent 
spread between the minimum and maximum of the grade. However, it is 
Relieved that adjusting the minimum of the range will tend to insulate 
the effect of the increase in the Federal minimum wage on the balance 
the structure. 
Please advise of any changes in salary ranges made to reflect 
t
^e new minimum rate. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
T
° THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS EXCEPT RICHMOND AND 
S A
N FRANCISCO. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
Item No. 2 
1/25/68 
January 29, 1968. 
For immediate release. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Proposed today an amendment to its Regulation D, "Reserves of 
Member Banks," effecting several changes in the computation of 
reserve requirements by member banks. 
The proposed changes, on which the Board invited comment 
from interested persons by March 1, 1968, would involve: 
1. establishment of coincident one-week reserve 
periods for reserve city banks and so-called 
"country banks"; 
2. calculation of weekly average required reserves 
based upon average deposits two weeks earlier; 
3. calculation of weekly average reserves held in 
satisfaction for requirements based upon average 
vault cash held two weeks earlier; 
4. provision for carrying forward to the next reserve 
week of either excesses or deficiencies averaging 
up to 2 per cent of required reserves. 
These proposed changes do not represent any change in 
Federal Reserve monetary policy, but are alterations in a technical 
r e
gulation and are designed to facilitate more efficient functioning 

Of 
the reserve mechanism. In combination, these changes are 
expected to reduce uncertainties, both for member banks and the 
federal Reserve, as to the amount of reserves required during 
the course of any reserve period. Their adoption should moderate 
Pressures for reserve adjustments within the banking system that 
sometimes develop near the close of a reserve period and can 
Produce sharp fluctuations in the availability of day-to-day funds. 
The text of the amendment in the form that it was 
forwarded for publication in the Federal Register is attached. 

301 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 204] 
[Reg. D] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Computation of Reserve Requirements 
The Board of Governors is considering amending § 204.3(a) 
a n d
 (b) to read as follows: 
' 
Deficiencies in reserves. 
(a) Computation of deficiencies. 
(1) Reserve requirements of 
member banks shall be determined on the basis of average daily net 
de
Poslt balances and average daily currency and coin covering 7-day 
computation periods which shall end at the close of business on Wednesday 
o f
 each week. 
(2) In determining whether a member bank has a deficiency or an 
G
*
c
ess in its required reserve balance for any computation period, the 
Q u i r e d reserve balance of such bank shall be based upon the average 
net deposit balances and average daily currency and coin held by the 
^mber b a n k at the close of business of each day during the second compu-
*
a t
ion period prior to the computation period for which the computation 
1 8
 made. 
(3) Any excess or deficiency in a member bank's required reserve 
Glance for any computation period, determined as provided in subparagraph 
above, will be carried forward to the next following computation 
^
r
lod to the extent that such excess or deficiency doe3 not exceed 2 per 
C e n t
 of such required reserves, except that any portion of such excess 
r
 deficiency not offset in the next period may not be carried forward to 
a d d
itlonal computation periods. 

302 
-2-
(
b
) Penalties. 
(1) Deficiencies in reserve balances remaining 
a f
ter the application of subparagraph (3) of paragraph (a) above will be 
subject to penalties, assessed monthly on the basis of average daily 
deficiencies during each of the computation periods ending in the preceding 
c
*lendar month. 
(2) Any such penalty will be assessed at a rate of 2 per cent 
P e
r annum above the lowest rate applicable to borrowings by each member 
b
ank from its Federal Reserve Bank on the first day of the calendar month 
which the deficiencies occurred. 
*
*
*
*
* 
The proposed changes are designed to provide for (1) establish-
ment of coincident one-week reserve periods for reserve city and country 
^anks; (2) calculation of weekly average required reserves based upon 
a v e
rage deposits two weeks earlier; (3) calculation of weekly average 
^serves held in satisfaction for requirements based upon average vault 
°
a
3h held two weeks earlier; and (4) carrying forward to the next reserve 
W e
ek of either excesses or deficiencies averaging up to 2 per cent of 
reserves. The changes are expected to reduce uncertainties as 
t o
 the amount of reserves required during the course of any reserve 
^
e
tiod and to moderate pressures for reserve adjustments within the bank-
system that sometimes develop near the close of a reserve period and 
C a n
 produce sharp fluctuations in the availability of day-to-day funds. 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
^ited States Code, and § 262.2(a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 

-3-
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
interested persons are invited to submit, in writing, relevant data, 
v
iews or arguments. Such material should be sent to the Secretary, 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 
20551, 
to be received not later than March 1, 1968. Under the Board's 
R u
les Regarding Availability of Information (12 CFR 261), such 
Materials will be made available for inspection and copying to any 
P
e
tson upon request unless the person submitting the material asks that 
^ be considered confidential. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 29th day of January 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
• 
• 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Of Gow-V. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
1/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 29, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Security First Bank & Trust Co., 
Grand Haven, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
establishment of a branch by Security First Bank & Trust Co., Grand 
Haven, Michigan, on the corner of Pine and Third Streets, Ferrysburg, 
Michigan, provided the branch is established within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branch would serve the convenience and needs of the community, and 
that establishment of the branch would not tend to create an unde-
sirable competitive situation. 
Preliminary figures from the most recent report of examin-
ation of your bank by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago indicate 
that your bank's capital position is less than satisfactory and has 
deteriorated since the 1966 examination. It is urged that all means 
to strengthen your bank's capital position be carefully considered. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

305 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Item No. 4 
1/25/68 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(JI2) HA 7-2)20 
January 25, 1968 
Mr. Herbex*t C. Morrison 
Chairman of the Board and President 
Elston Bank & Trust Company 
Cravfordsville, Indiana 
Dear Mr. Morrison: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
by your bank of a branch in the Boulevard Mall Shopping Center 
in the vicinity of the intersection of South Boulevard and 
Indiana Route No. U3, Cravfordsville, Indiana, provided the 
branch Is established within six months from the date of this 
letter. 
The Reserve Ban!: feels that capitalization of Elston 
Bank & Trust Company is adequate (based on 1966 exominntion 
data and perusal of the December 1967 report of condition), and 
finds that management is satisfactory, that the proposed branch 
vill serve the needs and convenience of the community, and that 
the branch will not create an undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
JRM:lp 
cc - Mr. Robert C. Holland 1 
Ind. Dept. of Fin. Inst 
Examiner's File 
C O P Y 
