PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
... . 
r: 
November 12, 1970 
Minutes for 
' 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 
It 

3155 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, November 12, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended. 
Long Island Trust Company. A draft of an order reflecting 
approval on October 29, 1970, of the proposed merger of Long Island 
Trust Company, Garden City, New York, with Seaside Bank, Westhampton 
Beach, New York, had been distributed. 
(The merger had now been 
approved by the State authorities.) 

3156 
11/12/70 
-2-
The issuance of the order was authorized. A copy of the document, 
as issued, is attached as Item No. 1. 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation. Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, Boston, 
Massachusetts, granting consent to the acquisition of shares of a holding 
company to be established in Argentina, and to the transfer to that hold-
ing company of all of the shares of the corporation's subsidiary, Corpo-
racion Financiera de Boston, Buenos Aires, Argentina. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Section 4(c)(8) determination. 
In a memorandum dated November 6, 
1970, the Legal Division advised of the intent of the General Counsel, 
,
1
 r 
• 
• i i 
acting under delegated authority, to issue an order and statement which 
would overrule the recommended negative decision of the hearing examiner 
regarding applications of The Citizens and Southern National Bank and 
The Citizens and Southern Holding Company, Savannah, Georgia, for a 
determination under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956 relating to certain planned financial and insurance activities of 
their nonbanking subsidiary, The Citizens & Southern Credit Service 
Corporation. On the basis of the proposed favorable determination the 
holding company would be permitted to insure correspondent banks against 
loss with respect to most of their small business loans in amounts between 
$5,000 and $100,000. However, the Division had some doubt as to the 

3157 
11/12/70 
-3-
appropriateness of releasing the proposed determination at this time 
in view of the pending bank holding company legislation, since it was 
felt that such action might prejudice the outcome of current negotiations 
in the Congress. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that, since the proposed 
determination would move into a new area, the matter should be considered 
by the Board and not be handled under delegated authority. Further, he 
felt that it was the duty of the Board to interpret and implement the 
law as it was presently written, and he saw no reason to delay release 
of a Board determination. 
Other comments indicated agreement that the matter should be 
considered by the Board, at a time when additional members could be 
present, and no consensus was reached on the question of the timing of 
release of a determination. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the Board consider employing 
its own hearing examiner, in view of difficulties that had been experi-
enced under the existing arrangements. Also, at the instance of Gover-
nor Maisel the staff commented on procedures provided for review of 
actions taken under the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that the 
applications would be brought back for consideration when other members 
of the Board were available. 

3158 
11/12/70 
-4-
Barik holding company legislation. In a memorandum dated 
November 5, 1970, Mr. Cardon recommended that a letter be sent to the 
Chairmen of the Senate and House Banking and Currency Committees that 
would submit for consideration at the forthcoming conference on H.R. 6778 
the so-called one-bank holding company bill, an amendment relating to 
bank stock held in trust. 
The Bank Holding Company Act exempts stock held by a bank in a 
fiduciary capacity, both for the purpose of determining whether the bank 
(or its parent company) is a holding company and for the purpose of deter 
mining whether Board approval is necessary before additional shares may 
be acquired. The House bill would repeal this exemption for the first 
purpose but not for the second. That is, it would count the shares of 
Bank A's stock held in Bank B's trust department in deciding whether 
Bank B was a bank holding company. If the answer were affirmative, 
Bank B would have, to register and file reports, but the House bill 
would not count trust holdings for purposes of section 3 of the Bank 
Holding Company Act, which prohibits formation of a bank holding com-
pany without Board approval and prohibits bank holding companies from 
acquiring more than 5 per cent of the shares of any bank. The Senate 
bill would count shares held by a bank in a fiduciary capacity for both 
purposes, but only where the shares were acquired after enactment and 
where the bank had sole discretion to vote the shares. 

11/12/70 
-5-
The proposed letter would indicate that the Board agreed with 
the Senate that the new rules should apply prospectively and should 
apply for purposes of section 3 as well as section 2. It would suggest, 
however, that particularly in the case of testamentary trusts the new 
rules should apply only to trust instruments executed in the future and 
not to acquisitions occurring in the future under instruments previously 
executed. To allow some time for banks to learn of the new rules and 
take steps to comply with them, the letter would further recommend that 
the effective date be deferred for 6 months. 
Following presentation of the issues by Mr. Cardon, clarification 
was given regarding certain technical points as well as positions that 
the Board had taken in the past with respect to the proposed legislation. 
As to the form the draft letter might take, several suggestions were con-
sidered. Some members of the Board were of the view that the problems 
described by Mr. Cardon could best be alleviated if banks were prohibited 
from exercising the right to vote shares of bank stock held in trust, and 
it was suggested that they might be given a period of time within which 
to have co-trustees designated for this limited purpose. Another sugges-
tion was that the letter might state explicitly that the new rules should 
apply only where a bank had the sole discretion to vote the shares held 
in trust. Several of the tentative suggestions that were offered were 
judged to be unappealing to the banking industry due to practical 

3160 
11/12/70 -
6-
operating difficulties or onerous record-keeping requirements that 
would be involved. It was noted, in this connection, that the banks 
undoubtedly were themselves calling to the attention of the Congress 
the problems presented for them by the pending bills. Other points 
discussed were whether it would be prudent for the Board to appear to 
support the Senate bill at this stage or, in fact, to make any recom-
mendations on an issue that was relatively unimportant when viewed in 
context of the overall legislation. 
Following further discussion it was agreed that no letter should 
be sent. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3161 
Item No. 1 
11/12/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
LONG ISLAND TRUST COMPANY, 
Garden City, New York, 
approval of merger with Seaside Bank, 
Westhampton Beach, New York. 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1328(c)), an application by Long Island Trust 
Company, Garden City, New York ("Long Island Trust"), a State member 
bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of 
the merger of that bank and Seaside Bank, Westhampton Beach, New York, 
under the charter and name of Long Island Trust. As an incident to the 
m e
rger, the sole office of Seaside Bank would become a branch of the 
resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by 
the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on the 
competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 

3162 
- 2 -
Board has considered all relevant material contained in the record in 
the light of the factors set forth in the Act, including the effect 
of the proposal on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
and prospects of the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
°f the communities to be served, and finds that: 
long Island Trust, with deposits of $242 million, is the 
second largest of 11 banks headquartered in Nassau County, where it 
operates 13 branch offices; its remaining seven offices are situated in 
Suffolk County. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1970.) 
Seaside 
Bank, deposits $11 million, operates its only office in Westhampton 
Beach, Suffolk County. In terms of deposits held, it ranks fifteenth 
o f
 16 banks located in the County. The closest offices of Long Island 
Trust and Seaside Bank are about 30 miles apart, and there is no significant 
competition existing between them. It appears that no substantial amount 
potential competition would be foreclosed by the merger, because of the 
s i
ze of Seaside Bank and due to the restrictions placed on branching 
b y S t
a t e laws. Consummation of the proposed transaction x^ould not 
r e s u l t
 in concentration levels being significantly increased on a local 
°
r
 Statewide basis. 
Based upon all the facts revealed in the record, the Board 
concludes that the merger would not have an adverse effect on competition 
in any relevant area. Consummation of the merger would provide customers 
°f Seaside Bank with more convenient access to certain banking services, 
*'hich are now available to them only from banks located several miles from 

3163 
- 3 -
i 
Westhampton Beach; these considerations lend weight tox^ard approval of 
the transaction. Considerations relating to the financial condition, 
management and prospects of Long Island Trust, Seaside Bank, and the 
resulting bank are consistent with approval of the application. It 
is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal would be in 
the public interest, and that the action should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be an4 hereby is approved, provided that 
the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 
months after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 12, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3164 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• R THE: 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
11/12/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P O N O T N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 12, 1970. 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, 
67 Milk Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of September 23 and October 20, 
1970, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
("BOFC") to acquire and hold all of the shares of a holding company 
to be established in Argentina ("HC"), at a cost of $5,000 and the 
transfer to HC of all of the shares of your subsidiary, Cotporacion 
Financiera de Boston, provided the shares of 1IC are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. In this connection, the 
acquisition and holding of shares of HC in excess of 10 per cent cf 
BOFC's capital and surplus is also approved. 
The Board's consent to the proposed acquisition and holding 
of shares of HC by BOFC is granted subject to the following conditions 
(1) That BOFC shall net hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in HC if HC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Beard of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if HC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Argentina or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to BOFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BOFC 
will, furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of HC as it may require from time to 
time; 

31ii 5 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by HC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if HC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Acr.; 
That BOFC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of HC at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of HC, after giving 
effect to the elimination of all known losses; and 
That HC will confine its leasing activities essen-
tially to the leasing of equipment under leases under 
which HC will recover the full costs of acquisition 
and any other expenses expected to be incurred by HC 
during the lease, and that HC shall not acquire equip-
ment for leasing before the prospective lessee has 
executed the lease agreement. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by HC in Argentina in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Eoard of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and Ry-Laws of HC. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, The First National Bank of Boston, and Bank of 
Boston International, and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
Kenne th A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
