MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 18, 1969 

3«28 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 18, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr, Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mr. Plotkin of the Legal Division 
Mr. Pierce of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. McClelland of the Office of the Controller 
Amendments to Regulation F. In November the Board had 
published for comment proposed amendments to Regulation F, Securities 
of Member State Banks, relating principally to the form and content of 
bank financial statements and proxy solicitation requirements. Sub-
stantially similar proposals had been published for comment by the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller of the 

3 ? 2 9 
12/18/69 
-2-
Currency, except that the latter's proposals related only to the form 
and content of financial statements. 
In a memorandum of December 15, 1969, the Legal Division 
and the Division of Supervision and Regulation summarized comments 
received and recommended adoption, effective December 31, 1969, of 
the amendments as published for comment with only a few technical 
modifications. 
In another memorandum, also dated December 15, 1969, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation reviewed a conference that had 
been held earlier this month with representatives of Commerce Union 
Bank, Nashville, Tennessee, and submitted a draft of a letter proposed 
to be sent to that bank. 
Discussion of the proposed amendments resulted in only one 
change in the staff recommendations. At present banks were required 
by Regulation F to file annual reports 120 days after the end of their 
fiscal year. One proposed amendment would have reduced the time 
permitted for filing from 120 days to 90 days, or within 15 days of 
the mailing of the bank's annual report to stockholders, whichever 
occurred first. Several banks had complained that the 15-day provision 
would not allow sufficient time for preparation, and the Board, after 
being advised that the staff had no particular objection, decided to 
change the 15-day provision to 30 days. 

12/18/69 
-3-
The amendments to Regulation F were then approved unanimously, 
effective December 31, 1969, and the issuance of a press statement in 
the form attached as Item No. 1 was authorized. A copy of the Federal 
Register notice is attached as Item No. 2, and a copy of the letter 
sent to Commerce Union Bank is attached as Item No. 3. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Kakalec, Halley, and McClelland then withdrew from the meeting. 
Board budget. Consideration of the Board's budget for 
calendar 1970 began with a statement by Governor Sherrill, who referred 
to material that had been distributed by the Office of the Controller 
under date of December 12, 1969, (revised in part December 15, 1969), 
and pointed out that the budget was being presented basically at two 
levels. One budget, designed simply to maintain programs presently 
in place, would total $18,511,000. Another, designated as a capability 
budget, would require $20,591,000. If items not regarded by the 
respective divisions as having a high priority were eliminated from 
the full capability budget, the requirement would be $19,834,000. 
As to procedure, Governor Sherrill suggested focusing first 
on the full capability budget. In his judgment the Board could not 
conduct additional activities, at least to any significant extent, 
without adding resources. The items provided for in the capability 
budget but not designated as having a high priority would appear to be 
those deserving the closest scrutiny; any of them could be extracted 
from the budget according to the Board's wishes. 

3931 
12/18/69 
-4-
Asked by Governor Robertson whether, in an inflationary 
situation, the Board should not focus primarily on cutting back 
rather than on expanding, Governor Sherrill commented on the difficulty 
involved in retrenching in the face of increasing requirements on the 
Board's organization. The basic decision that had to be made, in his 
opinion, was whether the Board wanted to lower the quality of its 
response. 
Mr. Halley then presented a general explanation of the 
program budgeting concept, which was being utilized for the first time, 
following which he summarized the results of the current year's operations 
against the background of the budget approved for the year. It was 
understood that a further analysis would be provided in the end-of-year 
budget review. 
There ensued a discussion during the course of which one 
Board member (Governor Brimmer) suggested that it might be helpful 
to have a costing-out of those functions that were not related to 
the Board's responsibilities for the flow of money and credit; he 
mentioned the truth in lending function as an example. In a somewhat 
similar vein, another member (Governor Maisel) suggested that it might 
be valuable to know how certain elements of the Board's expenditures 
(for example, those for secretarial services or library services) 
compared percentagewise with similar expenditures in other Government 
agencies. Governor Maisel also suggested, for the future, that each 

3 5 3 2 
12/18/69 
-5-
division be asked to go through the exercise of determining what it 
would do if its budget was cut by, say, 10 per cent. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether it would be appropriate 
to think about including in the budget a reserve out of which funds 
could be allocated to meet requirements that might develop during the 
year but were presently unknown. Governor Sherrill responded that 
i 
the Board could of course include an overall figure or include some 
provision to take care of items where it seemed possible that there 
would be increased requirements during the year but the outlook was 
not clear. He noted, however, that heretofore the Board had generally 
followed the practice of considering during the course of the year 
specific requests for budget overexpenditures as they appeared 
necessary. Mr. Halley added that one objective of the current budget 
procedures was to try to flush out events that might occur in the year 
years ahead that would require additional funds. 
Mr. Kakalec then presented the general outlines of the 
proposed capability budget for 1970, following which Mr. Partee returned 
to the room and discussed the indicated requirements of the Division of 
Research and Statistics. It was understood that presentations on behalf 
°f the other divisions would be made at subsequent meetings. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

K-'jf^^lii-. 
. - 
'•^^•fpi! 
•//• iV 
4D>.it;: (pi sti. 
v^-i* 
;3|JM: SitES *fcff> | W * 
^-vranfRr^TOKn; 
Item No. 1 
12/18/69 
tor immediate release. 
December 22, 1969. 
the Bocrd of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today amendments to its Regulation F, "Securities of Member State Banks," 
relating to the form and content of commercial bank financial statements 
and proxy solicitation provisions. This Regulation applies the dis-
closure provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to the secu-
rities of State member banks that have 500 or more stockholders. 
Tie amendments, which are effective December 31, are essen-
tially the same as those proposed by the Board on November ^ f and were 
ssuea after consideration of comments received since that time. 
T;»e major change will implement the "net income" concept in 
b ° n k i n c ^ e reports. Briefly, this change will require a bank to 
(!) recojr;ni;.e a loan loss factor in repotting operating expenses, 
eport securities gains and losses, is realized, in its statement 
o f income, and (3) designate the last line in the statement of income 
net income". Another change will reo.ire reporting of per share 
Minings. 
The revisions are intended to make financial reports required 
y R c & u l a ticm F ec nsistent with the format and instructions for the pre-
P^idtion of other financial reports banks are required to publish. 
Extensive revisions of the regulatory provisions relating to 
K y 
tations are also included in the amendments. 
These are 
a l n 1 y Intended to clarify the applicability of the various provisions 
thc- regulation and to incorporate administrative practices adopted 
r i n £ the five years since Regulation F was first issued, generally; 
Without * 
^posing any additional requirements. 

- 2 -
Ur-der the amendments, reports of all banks subject to 
Regulation F will be available for public inspection at the Mew York, 
Chicago, and San Francisco Reserve Banks, and at the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation's Washington headquarters. 
The nine other Federal 
Reserve banks w i U have available for inspection only those reports of 
Regulation F banks located in their own Federal Reserve districts. 
In add it ion, the amendments reduce the time permitted for 
banks to file annual reports with the Board from 120 to 90 days after 
the close of: its fiscal year, or within 30 days of the mailing of a 
bank's annual report to stockholders, whichever first occurs. 
The time 
Permitted for banks to file quarterly reports is reduced from 45 days 
to 30 days ai'ter the close of each quarter. 
Copies of Regulation F and related forms are available on 
Q 
< 
t
;
.
.
.
. 
request. 
-0-

Item No. ! 
12/18/69 
*• TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. F] 
PART 206--SECURITIES OF MEMBER STATE BANKS 
! 
Financial Statements, Proxy Solicitations, and Ocher Reports 
1. On November 15, 1969, notice of proposed rule making 
concerning amendments to Part 206 (Regulation F) was published in the 
j> 
Federal Register (34 F.R. 1831 ). Such notice indicated that consider 
at ion was also being given to amendments to § 206.42, Form for annual 
report of bank (Foim F-2) ; § 206.44, Form for quarterly report of bank 
(Form F-4); § 206.51, Form for proxy statement; statement where manage 
ment does not solicit proxies (Form F-5); and § 206.71, Forms for 
financial statements (Forms F-9 A, B, C, and D). After consideration 
of all comments presented by interested persons, the amendments to the 
Part and the Forms, as so proposed and as set forth hereinafter, are 
hereby adopted, effective December 31, 1969, subject to the following 
changes: 
j- y- 
, 
• 
(a) The last sentence of § 206.4(e) is amended by substi-
tuting "30 days" for "15 days". 
(b) The last sentence of § 206.5(a) is amended by substi-
tuting the words "an information statement" for "a statement where 
Management does not solicit proxies". 
(c) The first sentence of § 206.5(c)(1) is amended to 
,''t'J°te the phrase "on a consistent basis". 

1 mm 
-2-
(d> 
Note 1(c) to § 206.5(c)(1) is amended to read as fellows: 
"(c) Comparative statements of changes in capital accounts for each 
fiscal year similar in form to Form F-9C." 
(e) The last sentence of § 206.5(d)(1) is amended to refer 
to subparagraph "(4)" rather than to subparagraph "(3)". 
(f) The last sentence of § 206.5(d)(3) is amended by deleting t 
word "Instruction" before such sentence and beginning such sentence wicn 
the word "This". 
Such sentence will be part of the preceding paragraph. 
(g) The second sentence of § 206.5(f)(9) is amended by substi-
tuting the word "subparagraphs" for "subparagraph". 
(h) Additional amendments are adopted to Forms F-2, "Annual 
Report"; F-5, "Proxy Statement; Statement Where Management Does Not 
Solicit Proxies"; and Form F-9, "Financial Statements". 
These amendments 
are of a technical and clarifying nature except that Items 4 and 5 of 
<|(Y i <•• 
Form F-2 are amended to make such items consistent with changes in con-
parable provisions of Form F-5 that were previously announced. 
2. 
The effective date of the amendments was deferred for less 
than the 30-day period specified in section 553(d), Title 5, United 
states Code, because the Board found that it is necessary for the protec-
tion of investors that the amendments, particularly those relating to 
financial statement reporting, be applicable to information to be 
1 ported by member State banks as of December 31, 1969. 
V v| f, 
... 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 18, 1969. 
[SEAL] 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 ^ 3 7 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
12/18/69 
A D D R E B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A f c D 
December 19, 1969 
Mr. William F 0 Earthman, President, 
Commerce Union Bank, 
400 Union Street, 
Nashville, Tennessee. 
37219 
Dear Mr0 Earthman: 
with on,-. T h i S i S 
r e p l y t 0 y 0 U r l e t t e r daL'ed December 2, 1969 
SrSine 
h T ^ ' 
Board consideration comments re-
Board'? 
proposed amendments to Regulation F and requesting the 
fiS 
t h " e ^ P e C t 
t 0 
« 
accounting proce-
mentq 
With reference to comments applicable to proposed amend-
concern e v 0 ™ 
F i n a , , c i a l Statement,,, it is understood that the 
8 
" 
t
h
f 
T U t K h e a l , l 0 C a t i o n o f l o a n 
^pe»80 in the 
quirements of T 
T 
o b v i a t e d l>' clarification of the re-
b e n k ^ o w o o f ^ 
P r O P T , r e g u l a t t ° n d u r i n § t h e conference between 
representatives and the Board's staff; 
reportlne thn a C C 0 ^ n t i n ? P ^ r i b e d for security gains and losses, 
s t a t e d " 1; G. r e S u l t? o f ^vestment security transactions in the 
adhered V \ 
T ? " ' 
t h e P e r i ° d r e a l i ^ d > 
been consistently 
May 1967 
^ 
^
^ 
b a n k s uP e™isory disclosure regulations. 
In 
Currenrv\ a J 
^ 
C o n j u n c t i o n w i t h the Comptroller of the 
such bank ^ 
G r a l D e p ° S i t d u r a n c e Corporation reaffirmed 
< ^ * r c J a i a ' " i n g practice i n 3 l e t t e r 
t o 
insured 
and w « o 
S° 
G P r c s c r i b e d accounting for security gains 
a rezulnt 
r e p r 2 s e n t s generally accepted accounting practice and 
dilatory change is not contemplated. 
losses as In " ? 
® p r o p o s a l t o classify relatively large security 
1969 does 
, extraordinary item" in the statement of income for 
applicable 
l ™? * * 
b e s u P P o r t e d by generally accepted accounting 
to bankso 
Although materially fluctuating in amount from 

" 
3 8 3 8 
Mr. William F„ Earthman 
-2-
year-to-year, investment security transactions are not of a character 
significantly different from the typical or customary business activity 
of bankso Further, it was agreed during the above-mentioned conference 
that the size of security losses alone does not constitute a criterion 
for extraordinary, item treatment. It is the Board's view that the 
classification of security losses as "extraordinary items" would be 
inappropriate. 
Your interest in the proposed regulations as indicated by 
the informed comments received is welcomed0 
The personal representa-
tion made to the staff by Mr. Robert Smith and advisers on behalf of 
the bank was capably presented. Such participation in the regulatory 
process if, helpful to all parties concerned, i 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secre tary, 
