FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
October 29, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
C? 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

WJ80 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, October 29, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman \J 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Ma i s e1 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mr. Metzger and Miss Wolcott of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
1J Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

Z<J 8 1 
10/29/70 
- 2 -
Philadelphia building program. The Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia, in a letter dated September 29, 1970, requested approval 
of the design concept of its proposed new building and authority to 
proceed with the design development phase. 
The Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, in a memorandum 
dated October 23, 1970, discussed various aspects of the proposal, and 
recommended that no objection be interposed to the general design con-
cept while noting that certain procedural, security, and other questions 
needed to be resolved. 
In addition, the Division expressed concern over 
the size of the tentative budget (which would reflect costs well above 
those of recent Federal Reserve building programs) and recommended that 
the Reserve Bank be requested to take firm action during the design 
development phase to reduce the cost of the project. 
Comments by members of the Board indicated agreement that the 
time to take a firm stand with respect to the cost of the project was 
during the development period, that economies could be effected 
without violating the basic concept of the building, and that the sense 
of the Board that the cost should be reduced should be relayed to the 
Reserve Bank in strong terms. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the sending of a telegram 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia in the form attached as 
Item No. 1. 

10/29/70 
- 3 -
Implementation of one-bank holding company legislation. 
Initial 
papers on Projects 1 and 2, prepared by the staff task force working 
toward prompt implementation of proposed one-bank holding company legis-
lation upon its enactment, had been distributed with a covering memoran-
dum from Mr. Holland dated October 21, 1970. Project 1 would focus on 
the standards for determining appropriate lines of activity for bank 
holding companies, and Project 2 would look toward a framework for 
evaluating the competitive effects of acquisitions of nonbanking enter-
prises by bank holding companies. 
Each of the papers analyzed the issues 
involved and made certain recommendations for actions to be taken as well 
as alternative proposals in some instances. 
At today's meeting Mr. Holland suggested that the staff papers 
should be sent for comment to the academic consultants appointed in 
accordance with the understanding at the September 4, 1970, meeting, and 
that Professor George Stigler of the University of Chicago should be 
added to the list of academicians upon whom the Board could call for 
assistance in connection with this project. 
The Board approved the 
issuance of a letter of invitation to Professor Stigler by the Secretary. 
At the beginning of the discussion Governor Sherrill stated 
that he recognized the necessity for moving forward with planning in 
this area but he expressed some reluctance to submit papers to persons 
outside of the System prior to Congressional decision as to the form the 
proposed legislation would take. 

2 9 8 3 
10/29/70 
- 4 -
Chairman Burns agreed that the point was a sensitive one, particu-
larly since the papers leaned somewhat toward the Senate version of the 
proposed legislation. 
He mentioned some of the reasons why he would not 
favor a full-scale discussion of the papers by an academic group at 
this point, but he indicated that he would not object to one or two 
consultants being asked to work with the staff during the planning 
stage. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that certain problems could 
not be solved until the matter could be considered in terms of the 
legislation that had been adopted. 
He added that the time was drawing 
near when the Congressional conferees would have to reach a decision or 
abandon plans for one-bank holding company legislation during this 
session of Congress, and it would be his preference to await Congressio-
nal action before proceeding further. 
Question was raised as to the time schedule within which the 
Board would be expected to implement the proposed legislation once it 
became law, and the view was expressed that there would be no statutory 
time limit, but a certain amount of pressure would result from the 
position consistently taken by the Board with respect to the urgency of 
the need to regulate one-bank holding companies. 
Pressure also might 
come from the industry for information as to the new ground rules. 
The 
process through which guidelines would reach final publication was 
described. 
The present law was reviewed in terms 
of the proposed 

z<jm 
10/29/70 
- 5 -
legislation and the areas in which changes would be called for were noted. 
A time lag of as much as six months was estimated. 
The discussion then turned to the question of the point at 
which it would be appropriate to bring the academic consultants into 
the picture, and the majority appeared to favor a meeting early in 
January. Chairman Burns suggested that in the meantime, at the discre-
tion of Governor Sherrill, one or two consultants could be called upon 
to work with the staff with such frequency as was desirable. 
It was also 
understood that the staff would proceed with the drafting of a proposed 
regulation and necessary registration and other forms. 
It was agreed that the issues presented in the staff documents 
relating to Projects 1 and 2 were of sufficient importance to warrant 
detailed discussion that would require more time than was available this 
morning, and it was understood that the matter would be considered at a 
meeting in the near future when all members of the Board could be present. 
Foreign subsidiaries. Pursuant to the understanding at the 
meeting on October 15, 1970, a draft letter to all member banks and 
Edge corporations with foreign subsidiaries had been distributed with 
a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
October 26, 1970. The letter would (1) express the Board's expectations 
with respect to the measures that should be taken by the parent organi-
zation to assure the continued safety and soundness of the operations 
of its foreign subsidiaries, and (2) point out that in view of recent 

2385 
10/29/70 
- 6 -
developments added emphasis would be placed on the adequacy of the 
parent institution's capital structure in light of its existing foreign 
and other commitments. There had also been distributed a memorandum 
from Governor Brimmer dated October 26, 1970, furnishing background 
information on certain aspects of bank secrecy excerpted from an April 20, 
1970, staff memorandum on the subject. 
Governor Mitchell stated that circumstances surrounding the 
recent incident with respect to the assumption by United California 
Bank, Los Angeles, California, of up to $40 million of liabilities 
of its liquidating Swiss subsidiary had put the Board in an unfavorable 
light, and it was his view that a strong statement on the part of the 
Board was necessary in order to recover lost ground. With this in mind 
he did not feel that the proposed letter was adequate, and it would not 
be an inappropriate posture for the Board to require the parent organi-
zation to spell out in some detail the losses that it would expect to 
assume and the manner in which the desired end would be accomplished. 
He proposed certain changes in the draft letter that would reflect this 
viewpoint. 
Reservations were expressed by other members of the Board as to 
the consequences of such an approach, and the possibility of seeking 
the advice of the Federal Advisory Council in this regard was suggested, 
it being noted that the overall question of risks to domestic banks 
associated with the operation of overseas facilities was scheduled for 

10/29/70 
- 7 -
discussion at the Council's forthcoming meeting. Governor Brimmer 
stated that more information was also needed with respect to activities 
of those engaged in commercial banking as distinguished from merchant 
banking and communications might focus on that point as well. 
Governor Sherrill called attention to the fundamental study 
in progress regarding the foreign operations of U.S. banks and expressed 
the view that little risk would be run if a decision as to the content 
of the proposed letter were postponed pending formulation by the task 
force of its findings. 
Question was raised as to the process by which the examiners 
might determine what additional controls if any were being introduced 
by the parent institutions with respect to the operations of their 
foreign subsidiaries, and there followed a review of the type of informa-
tion that would normally be available in this regard. 
Following further discussion it was agreed that action would be 
deferred pending discussion of the matter with the Federal Advisory 
Council. However, Governor Robertson expressed the view that the Board's 
position with respect to adequacy of capital structure in light of 
potential loss through subsidiaries should be made known promptly. He 
felt that the statement drafted by the staff would be a good starting 
place and would not preclude further action at a later date. 
Colorado CNB Bankshares. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated September 18, 1970, and other pertinent 

ZUH7 
10/29/70 
- 8 -
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Colorado 
CNB Bankshares, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of Arapahoe 
Colorado National Bank, Arapahoe County, Colorado, a proposed new bank. 
The recommendations of the Division of Supervision and Regulation and 
the Banking Markets Section were favorable. Included in the distributed 
material were a proposed order and statement that could be used if the 
application were approved, together with a dissenting statement by 
Governor Robertson. 
Comments indicated that the majority of the Board favored approval 
of the application. However, Governor Robertson stated that he would 
dissent from the majority view on the grounds that there was little 
present need for an additional bank in the area to be served, that the 
proposal represented an attempt to "warehouse" the site, and that poten-
tial competition would be foreclosed. He could see no significant bene-
fits to the community to outweigh these adverse effects. 
There was some discussion of the competitive situation, but the 
consensus of the majority was that the establishment of a new bank by 
Colorado CNB Bankshares would have a beneficial effect upon the banking 
structure in Colorado. There was also agreement with Governor Mitchell's 
suggestion that the majority statement should be expanded to emphasize the 
need for an additional banking office in the market area. 
Comments were also directed to the undercapitalized position of 
the lead bank in the holding company system, which Governor Robertson 

wm 
10/29/70 
- 9 -
cited as another reason for his opposition to the proposed acquisition, 
and it was agreed that the letter to the applicant notifying it of the 
Board's action should stress the importance of a comprehensive capital 
improvement program. 
The application of Colorado CNB Bankshares to acquire shares of 
Arapahoe Colorado National Bank was then approved, Governor Robertson 
dissenting. The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 2, 
together with the dissenting statement; a copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
Governors Robertson and Daane then withdrew from the meeting 
to attend a funeral. 
United Banks of Colorado. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated October 20, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 
with an application of United Banks of Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado 
(formerly Denver U. S. Bancorporation, Inc.), to acquire shares of Mesa 
National Bank of Grand Junction, Grand Junction, Colorado. 
The staff 
recommendations were favorable. 
Following discussion, the application was approved unanimously, 
and the issuance of the order was authorized with the understanding that 
it would be expanded to take account of points raised by Governors 
Mitchell and Brimmer. 
It was also understood that the letter notifying 
the applicant of the Board's approval would indicate that, in reaching 

&J8S 
10/29/70 
- 1 0 -
its decision, weight had been given by the Board to the holding company's 
plans to strengthen the capital position of its subsidiary banks, and 
the materialization of those plans would be reviewed in connection with 
future applications. 
Copies of the order, as issued, and of the letter 
are attached as Items 4 and 5, respectively. 
An order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on August 17, 
1970, of the application of United Banks of Colorado, Inc., Denver, 
Colorado, to acquire shares of The Colorado Springs National Bank, Colorado 
Springs, Colorado, had been distributed. A dissenting statement by 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer had also been distributed. 
Governor Mitchell referred to Board action taken on October 22, 
1970, whereby the five members present denied by unanimous vote the 
application of The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, 
to acquire shares of The Exchange National Bank of Colorado Springs. 
He stated that upon reflection he would like to change his vote to one 
of approval and that he would prepare a statement dissenting from the 
majority view. 
The issuance of the order and statement relating to the appli-
cation of United Banks of Colorado was then authorized. Copies of the 
documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 6, together with the 
dissenting statement by Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Shawmut Association.- A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated October 19, 1970, and other pertinent papers, 

W
j
O 
10/29/70 
- 1 1 -
including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection with an 
application of Shawmut Association, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, to 
acquire shares of The Framingham National Bank, Framingham, Massachu-
setts. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
the order was authorized, with the understanding that it would be expanded 
to emphasize, as suggested by Governor Mitchell, the benefits in terms 
of increased competition that would result from the breaking of the close 
relationship between Framingham National Bank and other financial insti-
tutions in the area. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Long Island Trust Company. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated October 20, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 
with an application of Long Island Trust Company, Garden City, New York, 
to merge Seaside Bank, Westhampton Beach, New York. The recommendations 
were favorable. 
At today's meeting Mr. Egertson noted that the New York State 
Superintendent of Banks had not yet acted on the application, and, 
accordingly, he suggested that Board consideration of the proposed order 
be deferred. 
Following discussion, the application was approved unanimously 
contingent upon approval by the State authorities, and it was understood 

ZlJ<j± 
10/29/70 
- 1 2 -
that the proposed order would be brought back for consideration following 
State action. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
and Dallas on October 22, 1970, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Bank tax study. Public Law 91-156 requires that the Board report 
to the Congress on the probable economic effects of changes in State and 
local taxation of banks. The Board had previously approved the appoint-
ment of an advisory panel to assist in the planning of a bank tax study. 
At today's meeting Mr. Holland pointed out that various questions con-
cerned with procedures and c ontent of the study would need to be decided 
from time to time, and he recommended that authority to make necessary 
substantive decisions relating thereto be delegated to Governor Mitchell, 
with the understanding that the Board would be kept appropriately informed 
£ 
i, 
i j 
. 
f • • 
and that the final report of the study would come to the Board for con-
sideration prior to submission to the Congress. 
Unanimous approval was given to Mr. Holland's recommendation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item. No . • 1 
T E L E G R A M 
10/29/70 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD O F G O V E R N O R S OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 29, 1970. 
MELNICOFF - PHILADELPHIA 
•I 
Board has considered design concept of proposed new building presented 
in your letter of September 29 and other supporting material. 
Board interposes no objection to basic design concept and authorizes 
you to proceed with design development phase. While some design, 
security, and other questions need to be explored, their resolution will 
not affect basic concept and they can be pursued at the staff level dur-
ing the next phase. 
In that regard, however, Board would like to reserve 
judgment on working vault concept until feasibility of this approach can 
be established. 
On matter of project budget, while it is recognized that figures are 
tentative, Board is strongly concerned over what it believes to be 
the excessive cost of the proposed building. 
It requests, therefore, 
that meaningful reductions be effected during design development phase. 
For guidance, a budget not to exceed $55 per gross square foot is to be 
established and maintained for this project. This figure is meant to 
include an escalation factor covering the next 24 months, a contingency 
fund of 5 per cent, architects fees, and art work allowance, but excludes 
site improvement and normal current expense charges associated with new 
building programs. Depending on your time schedule as it develops, 
appropriate allowances will be made for future cost escalations as* 

MELNICOFF - PHILADELPHIA 
-2-
indicated by established construction indices for the Philadelphia area 
beyond the time span accounted for in the ceiling unit cost. Board feels 
that this can be accomplished without altering proposed design concept 
and would not be inclined to approve a contract price which exceeds the 
established budget unless there were unforeseen circumstances of a 
major nature. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KENYON 

2 9 . 9 4 
Item No. 2 
10/29/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc., 
1 
Denver, Colorado, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
' 
SO per cent of the voting shares of 
1 
Arapahoe Colorado National Bank, Arapahoe 1 
County, Colorado, a proposed new bank. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
*842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve. Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
P*ior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the voting 
shares of Arapahoe Colorado National Bank, Arapahoe County, Colorado, 
a Proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
tequested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 

- 95 -
^998 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 30, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12240), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction, A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order; and 
provided further that (c) Arapahoe Colorado National Bank shall be 
opened for business not later than six months after the date of this 
Order. The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended for 
good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 29, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
COLORADO CNB BANKSHARES, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
ARAPAHOE COLORADO NATIONAL BANK, ARAPAHOE COUNTY, COLORADO 
STATEMENT 
Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc., Denver, Colorado ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, for prior 
approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the voting shares 
of Arapahoe Colorado National Bank, Arapahoe County, Colorado ("Bank"), 
a proposed new bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller 
°f the Currency. The Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a. 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
Qcquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 

- 2 
-
2997 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect 
of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Colorado, six of which are registered bank 
holding companies, control $2,5 billion in total deposits, which 
represents 63 per cent of the deposits held by all commercial banks in 
the State.!/ Applicant, the third largest banking organization and 
third largest bank holding company in Colorado, has five subsidiary 
banks with aggregate deposits of $310 million, and controls 7.9 per cent 
of State deposits. Since Bank is a proposed new bank, the deposits 
under Applicant's control would not be immediately increased by 
consummation of the proposal* 
Four of Applicant's five subsidiary banks are located in the 
Denver metropolitan area, which is comprised of Adams, Arapahoe, Denver, 
and Jefferson Counties. In that market, as in the State, Applicant is 
the third largest banking organization, holding 12.6 per cent ($304.0 
million) of market deposits; the two larger banking organizations, both 
P 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

^ 9 9 8 
- 
3 
-
registered bank holding companies, control 22.2 per cent ($529.8 million) 
and 20.7 per cent ($495.7 million) of market deposits, respectively. 
Bank, a proposed new bank, is to be located in Arapahoe 
County, »10 miles south of downtown Denver, the location of Applicant's 
lead bank, Colorado National Bank of Denver. Bank's proposed service 
area, which is wholly contained in the service area of Colorado National 
Bank, encompasses an area of approximately 24 square miles immediately 
south of the city and county of Denver in the northern part of Arapahoe 
County; the area, which has experienced moderate growth in the past, 
has an estimated population of 26,000, and the prospects for its 
long-range development appear to be favorable. Applicant's closest 
subsidiary to the proposed site of Bank is the South Colorado National 
Bank (deposits $5.2 million), seven miles north of the site; that bank 
obtains about 3 per cent of its deposits and 11 per cent of its 
commercial loans from Bank's service area. Since Bank is a new bank, 
no existing competition will be eliminated by consummation of Applicant's 
proposal. 
Within Bank's proposed service area are two other commercial 
banks. The Arapahoe Valley Bank, located two miles northwest of Bank, 
with deposits of $14.2 million, is a subsidiary of United Banks of 
Colorado, Inc., Colorado's largest banking organization. The First 
National Bank of Southglenn, located in a new shopping center across 
the street from Bank, is a subsidiary of First National Bancorporation, 

2 9 9 9 
-4-
Inc., the States's second largest banking organization. Although 
another commercial bank, Littleton National Bank (deposits $14.3 
million), is located only 4.2 miles northwest of Bank, it is beyond 
Bank's anticipated service area, and consummation of the proposal would 
have little effect on it. 
On the basis of its review of the present case, the Board 
concludes that the establishment of the new Bank by Applicant would 
have a beneficial effect upon the banking structure in Colorado. The 
proposal would provide another banking office in the Arapahoe area, 
which like Colorado metropolitan regions in general, appears under-
banked: Colorado metropolitan regions have a population per banking 
office of 14,600, and the ratio in Arapahoe County is 13,400, compared 
with a United States average of 5,700. Applicant is approximately half 
the size of the State's two largest banking organizations, and it does 
not appear to be dominant in the Denver market. The proposed de novo 
entry into Arapahoe County will more conveniently serve a portion of 
the Denver market and will enable Applicant to compete more effectively 
in that segment of the market with the two larger banking organizations 
which are already represented therein. 
Since branching is prohibited by Colorado law, the only 
adverse effect of the proposal on potential competition would be its 
foreclosure of the opportunity of other individuals or groups to 
compete for the privilege of having a bank at the proposed location. 
In view of the absence of any indication that anyone other than Applicant 

3000 
' 
; 1 . i.i I1 
I, , . 
; 
has the desire or intention to ^^tablish a new bank in the relevant 
atea in the foreseeable future, the Board finds that consideration 
to be more than offset by the immediate effect of the proposal in 
decreasing concentration and promoting competition in Bank's service 
area. 
As to the effect of the proposal on the existing competitors 
in Bank's service area, both banks have experienced moderate growth 
in the past, and, as earlier mentioned, are affiliated with the largest 
banking organizations in the State. It therefore does not appear 
that there would be undue adverse effects on either bank and, in that 
light, the increase in competition which is to be anticipated as a 
result of the proposal tends to support approval of the application. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly 
or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any area, and would not sub-
stantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly or restrain 
trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources, and future prospects, -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 
generally satisfactory, their management is capable, and the prospects 
of the group appear favorable. 
Bank has no financial or operating history* 
It3 management 
would be derived from Applicant's present subsidiaries, and its projected 
growth and earnings indicate favorable prospects. 

3001 
- 6 -
Considerations under this factor are consistent with approval 
of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communiites involved. - The 
banking needs of the residents of Bank's service area appear to be 
adequately served at the present time by existing institutions. While 
Bank will not offer any major banking service not now offered by banks 
in the area, Applicant proposes to expand upon the consumer and small 
business oriented services now available, to the end that a third 
banking alternative offering a complete range of banking services 
will be available to the area. 
Considerations under this factor are consistent with, and 
lend some weight in support of, approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
October 29, 1970 

3002 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I do not agree with the conclusion of the majority that consum-
mation of Applicant's proposal x^ould serve the public interest and promote 
competition. On the contrary, the evidence indicates that there is 
little, if any, present need for an additional banking source in the 
area to be served by Bank, and that Applicants proposal represents 
an attempt to "warehouse" a site. Consummation of the proposal will 
tend to foreclose potential competition from sources unrelated to the 
area's dominant bank holding companies, thereby perpetuating the high 
level of banking concentration in the area. Since there are no signif-
icant benefits to the community to outweigh these adverse effects, I 
would deny the application. 
In a previous decision denying the application of a large 
bank holding company to acquire a proposed new bank, the Board observed 
that: 
"Bank holding companies often have the available resources, 
and therefore the ability, to act more quickly than a group of 
individuals in endeavoring to establish a new bank in an area 
which gives promise of supporting a successful banking operation. 
Such early establishment of a bank, and the acquisition of its 
stock by a bank holding company, may benefit the community in 
some respects. On the other hand, such an entry into an area 
by a bank holding company bank may, in some circumstances, 
expand the size or extent of the bank holding company system 
in such a manner or to such a degree as to have a strong 
tendency to preclude later entry by a bank which is not controlled 
by a bank holding company, It is apparent that in such a situa-
tion control of a bank by a bank holding company would run counter 
to [competitive] considerations...and should not be approved 
unless there are considerations favorable to the application 
that are sufficient to offset such adverse circumstances. 
i/ Application of Northwest Bancorporatlori> 1958 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 11,12. 

3003 
- 25 -
In the present case, the evidence indicates that there is no need 
for an additional, bank at Bank's proposed location at this time. 
Although Applicant estimates that deposits of Bank \7ill be $7 million 
after three years of operation, it is difficult to accept this figure 
as even reasonably accurate in light of the fact that the First 
National Bank of Southglenn, which is located in a shopping center 
across the street from Bank's proposed site, was opened in 1964 and 
its deposits are only $4.7 million after five years of operation. In 
addition, the expansion of the shopping center, from which Bank 
presumably would draw most of its customers, has not been as rapid as 
its developer originally anticipated. The two other banks in Bank's 
service area have had to rely to some extent on the resources of their 
respective parent holding companies to be profitable. The preliminary 
charter approval granted to Bank is conditioned upon its acquisition 
by Applicant, and it seems clear to me that such approval would not 
have been granted except for the assumed ability of Applicant to with-
stand the financial loss likely to result from Bank's premature 
establishment. Parenthetically, I might point out that Applicant and 
banks within its present system have some need for additional capital, 
and that the funds to be used for Bank's establishment might be used 
more productively than in an expansion which serves no public purpose. 
It is likely that, with the growth of the area involved, a 
need will develop for one or more additional banks to serve the area. 
If, at that time, Applicant's establishment of a new bank represents 

3004 
- 26 -
the only or the best means of meeting the need, I would believe it 
appropriate to consider favorable action on an application such as the 
present one. I find it inappropriate, however, to approve such a 
proposal at a time so far in advance of any real need as to preclude 
consideration of the alternatives being foreclosed. In a non-branching 
State such as Colorado, the establishment, of new banks represents 
virtually the only hope for deconcentration of significant markets. 
If the dominant organizations in such markets are permitted to pre-empt 
favorable locations before it is economically feasible for less 
advantaged organizations or individuals to compete for the privilege 
of serving, that hope is indeed forlorn. 
I believe Applicant's proposal may foreclose substantial 
competition and perpetuate present high levels of concentration in 
the Denver area. There being no public interest to be served by 
consummation of the proposal at this time, I would deny the application. 
October 29, 1970. 

B D A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
3005 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
10/29/70 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
October 29, 1970 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc. 
Seventeenth and Champs Streets 
Denver, Colorado 
80202 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc. for per-
mission to acquire at least 30 per cent of the voting shares of 
Arapahoe Colorado National Bank, Arapahoe County, Colorado, a pro-
posed new bank. 
Enclosed is the Board's Order and accompanying Statement, 
together with the press release on this action. Also enclosed is 
a Dissenting Statement of Governor Robertson. 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order 
relating to the periods of time within which the acquisition approved 
shall be consummated, and Arapahoe Colorado National Bank opened for 
business, advice of the fact of acquisition and of opening the bank 
for business should be given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City. 
I n approving the application, the Board gave weight to 
Applicant's assurances as to the amount and use of borrowed funds. 
The Board also expressed the hope that a more comprehensive capital 
improvement program, such as originally considered, be given a high 
priority in Applicant's future plans. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth.A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosures 

3006 
Item No. 4 
10/29/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C., 
In the Matter of the Application of 
UNITED BANKS OF COLORADO, INC., 
1 
Denver, Colorado, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 1 
cent or mere of the voting shares of ' 
Mesa National Bank of Grand Junction, 1 
Grand Junction, Colorado. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Banks of Colorado, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado ("Applicant") 
[formerly Denver U.S. Bancorporation, 
Inc.], a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Mesa National Bank of Grand Junction, Grand Junction, 
Colorado ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 

3007 
- 
2 -
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 16, 1970 (35 Federal Register 14522), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction, A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of the 
proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
of Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served0 Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Colorado, controls 
nine subsidiary banks with $626 million in deposits, which represent 
15.9 per cent of total deposits of all Colorado banks. (All banking data 
are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved by the Board to date, including the acquisition by 
Applicant of The Colorado Springs National Bank, Colorado Springs, Colorado, 
approved by the Board this date in a separate action.) Upon acquisition of 
Bank ($7 million deposits), Applicant would increase its shares of State-
wide deposits by .2 per cent. 
Bank is the smallest of three banks in Grand Junction, 
and is the third largest of five banks in Mesa County, the relevant 

3008 
-3-
market, with about iO per cent Of market deposits. The largest and 
second largest banks in the taarket control 43 per cent and 37 pet cent, 
respectively, of market deposits. Applicant's closest subsidiary to 
Bank is located in Denver, about 250 miles east, and it does not appear 
that existing competition would be eliminated, nor potential competition 
foreclosed, by consummation of the proposal. To the extent that affil-
iation with Applicant would enable Bank to improve its ability to compete 
with the larger banks in its market, competition would be increased 
in Mesa County. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consumma-
tion of the proposed acquisition would not have significant adverse 
effects on competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, as 
they relate to Applicant and its subsidiaries, are consistent with 
approval; as they relate to Bank, they weigh in favor of approval since 
Applicant plans to raise additional capital for Bank. Affiliation 
with Applicant would enable Bank to develop programs to attract new 
industry to the area and to accommodate the needs of the community 
through larger lending limits and specialized loan services. It is 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would be in the public interest, and that the application should 
be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition 
so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 

3009 
day following the date of this Order or (b) latet than throe fcoriths 
after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 29, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Malsel, Brimmer, and Sherrill, 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3 0 4 0 
B D A R D 
UF 
G D V E R N D R 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
10/29/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L C D R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
October 29, 1970 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
United Banks of Colorado, Inc., 
United Bank Center, 
1700 Broadway, 
Denver, Colorado. 80217 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has approved the application of United Banks of Colorado, Inc. 
for permission to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Mesa National Bank of Grand Junction, Grand Junction, Colorado. 
Enclosed is the Board's Order together with the press 
release on this action. 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the acquisition herein approved 
is to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be 
given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
In approving this application, the Board took into con-
sideration the plans of United Banks of Colorado, Inc. to raise 
additional funds in the near future through the sale of debentures 
in order to re-fund existing short-term debt and strengthen the 
capital position of subsidiary banks. Materialization of these plans 
will be reviewed in connection with any future applications. 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosures 

3011 
Item No. 6 
10/29/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
UNITED BANKS OF COLORADO, INC., 
1 
Denver, Colorado, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
1 
80 per cent of the voting shares of The 
1 
Colorado Springs National Bank, Colorado 
1 
Springs, Colorado. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Banks of Colorado, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the 
voting shares of The Colorado Springs National Bank, Colorado Springs, 
Colorado. 

3012 
- 34 -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 
The present application was filed under the name of 
Denver U. S„ Bancorporation, Inc.; during the pendency of the appli-
cation, Applicant's name was changed to United Banks of Colorado, Inc. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Register on November 5, 1969 (34 Federal Register 17930), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the application so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 

- 35 -
3013 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 29, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
and Brimmer. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3014 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
UNITED BANKS OF COLORADO, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF THE COLORADO SPRINGS NATIONAL BANK, COLORADO 
SPRINGS, COLORADO 
STATEMENT 
1/ 
United Banks of Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado ("Applicant") , 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of at 
least 80 per cent of the voting shares of The Colorado Springs 
National Bank, Colorado Springs, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested 
his views and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 
1/ The application was originally filed under the name of Denver U. S. 
Bancorporation, Inc. Applicant adopted its present name on August 31, 
1970. 

3015 
- 37 -
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that vjould 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 
of banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board 
approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section 
of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to 
tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be 
in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In each 
case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
the largest banking organization in Colorado, has eight subsidiary 
2/ 
banks which have total deposits of $590 million. 
Acquisition of 
2/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and include bank 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
to date. 

3016 
- 38 -
Bank, which has deposits of $36 million, would increase Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State from 15 per cent to 15.9 per cent. 
Bank is the third largest of four banks in downtown 
Colorado Springs, the largest city in El Paso County. The largest 
bank in the area ($93 million deposits) is a subsidiary of a bank 
holding company which is the State's fourth largest banking organization; 
the same organization also owns two suburban banks in the area, and 
together its subsidiaries control over $100 million in deposits, more 
than 35 per cent of the El Paso County total. The second and fourth 
largest banks in the downtown area are affiliated through common 
ownership; together they hold about $64 million in deposits, almost 
23 per cent of the County total. Bank controls 12.7 per cent of 
the deposits in El Paso County; its affiliation with a suburban 
bank holding 2,3 per cent of County deposits would be broken if 
the present proposal is consummated. The fourth largest banking 
organization in the County is a locally-based bank holding company 
Which controls a bank located just outside the downtown area, as 
well as a suburban bank; its two subsidiaries control 9„7 per cent 
of County deposits. In all, 18 banks, representing 13 banking 
groups, compete in El Paco County. Consummation of the present 
Proposal, by dissolving the common ownership between Bank and its 
suburban affiliate, would result in 14 competing organizations. Bank 

3017 
- 39 -
would remain the third largest of these - about one-half as large 
as the second largest, and one-third the size of the largest, in 
terms of local deposits. 
The nearest of Applicant's present subsidiary banks is 
located about 43 miles south of Colorado Springs, Four of its 
eight subsidiaries are located in the Denver area, about 70 miles 
north of Colorado Springs. Only Applicant's largest subsidiary, 
in Denver, competes to any extent with Bank, and the extent of such 
competition is not significant. 
In a comment on the application submitted to the Board, 
the United States Department of Justice concluded that, because of 
the proposal's effect in foreclosing potential competition and 
extending the influence of Applicant into the second largest city in 
the State, its competitive effect "would be significantly adverse." 
For the reasons stated hereafter, the Board believes this assessment 
overstates the long-range anticompetitive effects of the proposal, 
and accords insufficient weight to the immediate benefits to 
competition which would result from Its consummation. 
Although Applicant is, by a small margin, the largest 
banking organization in Colorado, none of its subsidiaries is the 
largest bank in the area it serves, and, in view of Bank's size 
relative to its competitors, Applicant is unlikely to become a 
dominant competitor in Colorado Springs. Bank has been very 

- 40 -
3018 
conservatively operated, and its share of area deposits has declined 
by more than one-third since 1958. In the light of the unaggressive 
policies which it has pursued in the past, it seems highly unlikely 
that it would be a leading force in the formation of a new holding 
company, or even that it x^ould be a significant independent competitor 
to the bank holding companies which are now entering or forming in 
Colorado Springs. Consummation of Applicant's proposal would result 
in four strong competing organizations in the Colorado Springs area, 
no one of which is likely to dominate area banking. The Board considers 
this beneficial effect on competition more persuasive than the possible 
anticompetitive effects resulting from the foreclosure of Applicant's 
possible acquisition of a smaller outlying bank (which would have only 
a limited impact on the larger downtown organizations), or its possible 
establishment of a new bank (which also would have limited immediate 
impact) in the downtown area. The fact that the proposal would also 
serve to break an affiliation now existing between Bank and a suburban 
bank, thereby removing an impediment to competition between them, 
further supports the view that the overall effect of the proposal on 
competition would not be seriously adverse. 
Based on the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 

3019 
- 41 -
the business of banking in any area, and would not restrain trade, 
substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly 
in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 
regarded as reasonably satisfactory, although Applicant has a 
relatively heavy debt position and certain of its subsidiary banks 
face a need for additional capital. In view of the fact that the 
present proposal would not increase Applicant's debt position, 
and in view of Applicant's indications that it plans in the near 
future to liquidate its debt and provide additional capital to its 
subsidiaries, considerations bearing on these factors, as they 
relate to Applicant and its present subsidiaries, are regarded as 
consistent with approval of the application. 
Bank is in satisfactory financial condition, and its 
management is competent, though conservative. Its prospects, 
uhich appear favorable in any event, would be enhanced by consum-
mation of the proposal. These considerations are also consistent 
with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved, -
Consummation of the present proposal would not significantly affect 
the convenience or needs of areas now served by subsidiaries of Applicant. 

3020 
- 42 -
It appears that the banking needs of the Colorado Springs 
area are being adequately met by banks located there. However, 
although Bank offers a reasonably complete line of services, it 
has not been aggressive in marketing them. Strong demand exists 
in the area for consumer financing, mortgage loans, and trust 
services. Bank has not been active in any of these areas, and 
Applicant proposes to improve its performance by developing sources 
of mortgage funds, and by supplying the direction and advice necessary 
to increase its installment lending and fiduciary capability. Bank's 
present quarters are old, of insufficient size, and lack adequate 
parking facilities; Applicant proposes to take necessary steps to 
improve these physical facilities. 
These considerations ueigh in favor of approval of 
the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
October 29, 1970 " 

3021 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, MAISEL, AND BRIMMER 
The present proposal would continue a trend whereby, through 
one acquisition after another, the banking structure of Colorado has 
been changed from one of local markets served by local banks to one 
in which most of the banking resources of every significant market 
in the State are concentrated under the control of a feu bank holding 
companies. A principal objective of the Act was to preserve and 
encourage a system which would allow for as many separate and competing 
banking organizations as can effectively and efficiently serve the 
convenience and needs of the communities involved. We believe that 
objective to be frustrated by approval of proposals such as the present 
one, and consequently, there being no outweighing considerations, we 
Would deny the application. 
In our Dissenting Statement in connection with the Board!s 
approval of the application of First National Bancorporation to acquire 
First National Bank of Greeley (1970 Federal Reserve Bulletin 539, 543) 
we noted the undesirable trend developing in Colorado, and expressed 
our belief that "it is essential that the Board not now approve any 
acquisition in furtherance of that trend where approval is not clearly 
required by considerations bearing upon the public convenience and 
needs." (Id. at 544). The present proposal is clearly in furtherance 
of that trend, and is without any significant offsetting benefits to 
the community. 

- 44 -
Upon consummation of the present proposal, Applicant (the 
largest banking organization in the State) will control a major bank 
in every Colorado city with a population of 25,000 or more. Its 
subsidiaries include the second largest bank in Denver (accounting 
for 20 per cent of that area's deposits), the second largest in Fort 
Collins (23 per cent of that area's deposits), the third largest in 
Boulder (13 per cent of area deposits) and Greeley (15 per cent of 
area deposits), and the fourth largest in Pueblo (11 per cent of 
area deposits). Acquisition of the third largest bank in Colorado 
Springs completes the circuit through which it has established control 
over a significant portion of the banking resources of every major 
market in the State. Two other Colorado bank holding companies, 
First National Bancorporation, Inc., and Affiliated Bancshares of 
Colorado, Inc., also have major subsidiaries in several of these markets. 
With consummation of the present proposal, these three organizations 
will control the two largest banks in Denver (44 per cent of Denver 
area deposits), the three largest in Greeley (79 per cent of Greeley 
area deposits), and two of the three largest in Boulder (52 per cent 
°f area deposits), Fort Collins (42 per cent of area deposits), and 
Colorado Springs (48 per cent of area deposits). 

3 0 ^ 3 
- 45 -
The acquisition by the largest banking organizations in the 
Ctate of leading banks in these markets lessens present and future 
competition in markets throughout the State in several uays. First, 
the immediate competitive stimulus which the major potential competitors 
may provide to the present principal market participants is lost when 
the latter are acquired by the former. Secondly, such acquisitions 
reduce the number of potential participants in the market at the very 
time that the area is undergoing its greatest growth and is most able 
to attract new entrants and support additional participants. Another 
facet of this is that those organizations least able to expand through 
de novo establishments are deprived of a vehicle through which they 
might have been able to achieve a market position. The end result is 
that a large percentage of the banking resources of every significant 
market in the State are vested in the same few organizations. Subject 
only to the same competitive stimulation in each market, and without 
the stimulus which a significant potential competitor might provide, 
the result tends to be parallel policies, not competition. Innovations 
in service and pricing become less likely, and the public is forced 
to depend upon the judgment of the few as to the best methods by which 
its needs may be met, and indeed - particularly in periods of credit 
scarcity - as to whether some needs will be met at all. 

3024 
-4-
In vieu of the serious anticompetitive effects of the proposal, 
and the lack of offsetting benefits, we would deny the application, in 
accordance with the Congressional mandate. 
October 29, 1970. .' 

Item No. 7 
10/29/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SHAWMUT ASSOCIATION, INC., 
Boston, Massachusetts, 
for approval of acquisition of up to 
100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) 
of The Framingliam National Bank, 
Framingham, Massachusetts. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Shawmut Association, Inc., Boston, 
Massachusetts ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of up to 100 per cent of the 
voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of The Framingham 
National Bank, Framingham, Massachusetts ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller offered no 
objection to approval of the application. 
•

3 0 2 6 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 27, 1970 (35 Federal Register 13673), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth, in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company and second 
largest banking organization in Massachusetts, has 11 subsidiary banks 
with $1.2 billion in deposits, which represents 12.7 per cent of the 
total deposits of all commercial banks in the State. (All banking 
data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) In the 
Boston Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, as in the State, 
Applicant is the second largest banking organization, holding 15 per 
cent of the area's deposits; the largest and third largest banking 
organizations in the Boston area, both independent banks, hold 33 and 
12 per cent of the area s deposits, respectively. 

3027 
- 3 -
Bank (deposits $28.7 million) has seven offices, all of 
which are located in the Framingham area, 21 miles west of Boston, 
and primarily serves that area; it is less than one-half as large 
as the only other bank located in Framingham. The closest offices 
of Applicant's subsidiary banks are seven miles from any office of 
Bank; there is no significant competition between those subsidiaries 
and Bank, primarily because of the presence of competing banks in 
the intervening areas. Applicant's largest subsidiary, The National 
Shavmut Bank of Boston, does derive some business from the Framingham 
area. However, part of this business is represented by accounts of 
companies with banking needs which Bank could not meet, and for which 
it is not competitive, and the remainder consists of accounts of 
persons who commute from Framingham to Boston. Although consumma-
tion of the proposal would eliminate a banking alternative for these 
commuters, the significance of this fact is minimized by the large 
number of alternatives available to such commuters in Boston. In 
addition, by breaking a close relationship that presently exists 
among Bank and the other financial institutions in Framingham, 
competition would be increased in that area, since Bank would repre-
sent a competitive force in the area separate from its immediate 
competitors. It does not appear that significant competition would 
be eliminated, or significant potential competition foreclosed by 
consummation of Applicant's proposal, or that there would be undue 
adverse effects on any other bank. 

- 4 -
3028 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consumma-
tion of the proposed acquisition would not have significant adverse 
effects on competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, 
as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are regarded 
as consistent with approval. Applicant proposes to expand many of 
Bank's present services, to make international services available 
through Applicant's principal bank in Boston, and to assist Bank in 
meeting larger credit needs through participations with Applicant's 
subsidiary banks; these considerations provide some weight in support 
of approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that 
the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 29, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
