Minutes for 
September 20, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3688 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, September 20, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Messrs. Leavitt and Egertson, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Hart and Mr. Craig of the Legal Division 
Mr. Maguire of the Division of Examinations 
Branch application (Item No. 1). After agreement upon a change 
suggested by Governor Brimmer for strengthening language regarding the 
need for capital improvement, unanimous approval was given to a letter 
t o The Merchants and Farmers State Bank of Weatherford, Weatherford, 
Texas, approving (1) the establishment of a branch consisting of three 
drive-in windows, and (2) an investment in bank premises. A copy of 
the letter, in the form in which approved, is attached as Item No. 1. 
Questions under Regulations T and U (Item No. 2). There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated September 18, 1967, from the Legal 
division regarding certain questions under Regulations T and U (relating 

3689 
9/20/67 
-2 -
to credit for securities transactions) directed to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis by counsel for a New York Stock Exchange member firm 
(identified by the Reserve Bank, for the Board's information, as A. G. 
Edwards & Sons, St. Louis, Missouri). The firm proposed to incorporate, 
and its counsel had asked whether the firm's partners and employees 
would be prohibited by Regulation T from obtaining, for the purpose of 
purchasing stock in the resulting corporation, bank loans that would be 
collateralized by unlisted securities. Counsel also asked whether, 
assuming that Regulation T would not apply, the loans would be subject 
to margin and other restrictions imposed by Regulation U. 
The Legal Division recommended, on the basis of considerations 
set forth in the memorandum, that the Board take the position that sec-
tion 220.7(a) of Regulation T would not forbid partners and employees 
°f the firm to obtain loans from banks, against collateral other than 
registered or exempted securities, for the purpose of purchasing stock 
in the firm, but that the bank loans would be "purpose" loans and sub-
ject to the margin and other requirements of Regulation U if any stock 
were included among the collateral. A draft of letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis was attached to the memorandum. 
After comments by Miss Hart, Governor Brimmer raised the ques-
tion whether it would be desirable to publish the substance of the 
letter as an interpretation, rather than merely to transmit the letter 
t o the Reserve Bank. 

8 6 9 0 
9/20/67 
-3-
The staff indicated that, since the situation in question was 
not one commonly encountered, it had been thought sufficient to advise 
the Reserve Bank of the position taken. It was noted that under the 
Public Information Act the substance of the reply would be made avail-
able to anyone who requested it. 
The letter was thereupon approved, Chairman Martin abstaining 
for reasons that he mentioned involving family relationships. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Interlocking relationship under the Clayton Act. There had 
been d istributed a memorandum dated September 18, 1967, from the Legal 
Division regarding interlocking service, contrary to the terms of sec-
tion 8 of the Clayton Act and of the Board's Regulation L, Interlocking 
Bank Directorates under the Clayton Act, by William A. Spaugh as Vice 
President of American Security and Trust Company, Washington, D. C., 
and as a director of Fairfax County National Bank, Falls Church, 
Virginia. 
The memorandum brought out that in April 1962 Fairfax County 
National Bank had inquired whether Mr. Spaugh could serve as a director 
°f the bank. The question was raised because at the most recent exami-
nation of the bank the national bank examiner had questioned the eligi-
bili ty of Mr. Spaugh's predecessor on the board, who was also a Vice 
Pre sident of American Security and Trust Company and who had since died, 
t o continue to serve in both capacities. It was pointed out that Fairfax 

3691 
9/20/67 
-4 -
County National Bank and American Security and Trust Company had had 
close relationships that it was hoped could be continued. The Board 
replied, in a letter of April 30, 1962, that it would appear that Mr. 
Spaugh's interlocking relationship was prohibited by section 8 of the 
Clayton Act, on the ground that the location of Fairfax County National 
Bank was adjacent to Washington, D. C., and indicated that the inter-
locking relationship was not permissible under any of the exceptions in 
the law or the Board's Regulation L. The Board's letter did not specify 
that steps should be taken to discontinue Mr. Spaugh's interlocking 
» 
? < 
relationship or that the Board or the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
should be notified when the interlocking relationship had been termi-
nated. However, copies of the letter were sent to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and to the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Since 1962, the reports of the national bank examiners covering 
both American Security and Trust Company and Fairfax County National 
Bank consistently had listed Mr. Spaugh's interlocking service as an 
"apparent violation" of section 8 of the Clayton Act but justified the 
service by adding the comment that the two banks were not in contiguous 
o r adjacent locations, that is, that the interlock was exempted from 
the statutory prohibition. Mr. Spaugh's dual service had again come to 
the attention of the Board's staff during a recent visit by counsel for 
a bank in College Park, Maryland, to discuss the Board's conclusion 
that Washington and College Park are adjacent and therefore a senior 

3692 
9/20/67 
-5 -
loan officer of American Security and Trust Company was prohibited by 
section 8 of the Clayton Act from continuing to serve as a director of 
the College Park bank. 
The memorandum brought out that in only two cases had the Board 
considered that special circumstances warranted refraining from requir-
ing prompt termination of an interlocking relationship between banks 
that otherwise would be prohibited. One of these (which also had been 
cited by the staff preceding the Board's April 1962 action regarding 
Mr. Spaugh's dual service) related to an interlocking directorate 
between Riggs National Bank, Washington, D. C., and Alexandria National 
Bank, Alexandria, Virginia. Although the Board determined that Wash-
ington and Alexandria were contiguous or, if not, adjacent, it inter-
posed no objection to continuance of service by the individual concerned. 
The dual service by that individual, and by his predecessor in the same 
capacities, had continued for approximately 15 years. However, the 
Board specified that when the service of the individual then holding 
the two directorships terminated, no succeeding interlocking director 
would be elected. 
The other interlocking relationship that the Board, in 1959, 
had not required to be terminated involved a director serving a bank in 
Ocean City, New Jersey, and a bank having a branch in Somers Point, New 
Jersey. The corporate limits of the two places coincided under navigable 
water separating them, but a representative of the Federal Reserve Bank 

3693 
9/20/67 
-6 -
of Philadelphia, without knowing of that circumstance, in 1953 advised 
the director that the Clayton Act would not prohibit his dual service 
and the director proceeded in reliance on that advice. 
The memorandum stated that it seemed doubtful that any such 
special circumstance existed in the case of Mr. Spaugh's dual service. 
In view of the Board's 1962 letter to Fairfax County National Bank, 
and the apparent failure of the bank to pursue the matter further with 
either the Board or the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, it could 
/ 
hardly be said that the bank had acted reasonably, even though the 
Comptroller of the Currency or his examiner had offered the bank a dif-
ferent interpretation that found its way into the examination reports. 
So far as the Board's records were concerned, Fairfax County National 
Bank had chosen to ignore the advice of the Board. 
The relevant provisions of the statute were set out in the memo-
randum, along with court decisions that had a bearing on the situation 
in question. Attached was a draft of letter to Fairfax County National 
Bank that would request that Mr. Spaugh's interlocking service be termi-
nated without delay. Also attached were drafts of letters addressed to 
Comptroller of the Currency, American Security and Trust Company, 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
At today's meeting members of the Board raised questions as to 
why the failure to comply with the Board's 1962 opinion had not come to 
light earlier. The staff indicated that although the Federal Reserve 

36<M 
9/20/67 
-7 -
Banks had a responsibility for investigating questionable situations of 
this nature, there apparently had been a failure of coordination in this 
instance between the Reserve Bank's review of the examination reports 
and its knowledge that the Board had ruled in 1962 that the interlock-
ing service was prohibited. Presumably, the reviewer was unaware that 
the position taken by the Comptroller of the Currency, upon which the 
"national bank examiner had relied, was at variance with the Board's 
Position. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the circumstances of 
Spaugh's dual service were similar to those involved in the Alex-
andria case. Since no objection had been interposed by the Board in 
the latter case, it appeared to him that a similar position could be 
taken in regard to this one. The primary ground for interposing no 
Ejection in the Alexandria case was that the service had continued 
a number of years, and that was true also in the present situation. 
Mr. Shay observed that in the Alexandria case the Board had not 
Previously expressed a conclusion adverse to the interlocking relation-
s^ip, as it had in its 1962 letter regarding Mr. Spaugh's service. The 
act that there had been no follow-through to enforce the Board's con-
tusion in Mr. Spaugh's case would not seem to justify failing to 
enforce it now. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the statutory prohibi-
ti°n had been enacted specifically to prevent interlocking relationships 
SUch as here presented. 

*f<' J 
9/20/67 
-8 -
Governor Brimmer commented that the special circumstances of 
the Alexandria and New Jersey cases seemed evident. The Board had 
specified in the former that no successor should serve in a similar 
dual capacity, and in the latter the Board had refrained from requir-
l n8 a termination of the dual service because the banks and the indi-
vidual concerned had acted in reliance on advice received from the 
Reserve Bank. Here the Board had specifically notified Fairfax County 
National Bank that the service was improper. 
Governor Robertson spoke in favor of writing a letter, such as 
the Legal Division proposed, requiring that Mr. Spaugh's dual service 
b e terminated promptly. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the Board would be in a poor 
light if, after failing to enforce its position for five years, it now 
did so, especially when the Board had permitted the continuance of an 
interlocking 
relationship in circumstances that seemed to him almost 
identical. He inquired whether the Board was willing likewise to insist 
a t this point that the dual service in the Alexandria case be brought 
i n t o conformity with the statute. 
I 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that there was a signif-
icant difference in the present case in that the Board had given a 
clear indication of its opinion and had been ignored. 
* 10 f
t
| 
, 
Miss Hart suggested that the problem, admittedly an awkward 
ne> might be settled by asking the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 

mm 
9/20/67 
-9-
to call the matter to the attention of Fairfax County National Bank on 
the basis of the examination reports. There had been many instances in 
which the Board had required an individual to relinquish an interlock-
ing relationship, and it did not seem fair to individuals and banks that 
had complied with such instructions if the Board did not impose a similar 
requirement in the present case. 
There was general agreement with the approach suggested by Miss 
Hart. Accordingly, it was understood that the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond would be requested to take the matter up with Mr. Spaugh and 
the Fairfax County National Bank, inquiring what Mr. Spaugh's reasons 
Were,for continuing to serve and whether he was willing to relinquish 
the dual relationship at the present time; it was understood also that 
if he replied to the latter question in the negative, the Board would 
give further consideration to what measures should be taken. 
Review of examination reports. Governor Brimmer expressed the 
view that measures should be taken to avoid any recurrence of a situa-
t i 
°n such as had just been considered, in which a ruling by the Board 
had 
gone unenforced for five years. He inquired what could be done to 
lmpr°ve procedures. 
Mr. Shay commented that several years ago the then Comptroller 
the Currency had instructed national banks to refer to him any ques-
i 0 n s t h ey had regarding interlocking directorates under section 8 of 
e Clayton Act. During the time those instructions were outstanding, 

3 6 9 7 
9/20/67 
-10-
it had been difficult for the Federal Reserve to insure that service 
°f national bank officers and directors was in compliance with the 
Board's interpretation of the statute and Regulation L. The present 
Comptroller recognized the Board's authority in the matter and had 
stated his intention to refer to the Board any questions that might 
arise. However, it was possible that additional situations might come 
t o light that had developed under the former Comptroller's instructions. 
Governor Robertson suggested that it might be desirable to take 
matter up at the next conference of Reserve Bank Vice Presidents in 
charge of examinations, to make sure they were aware of the need for 
reviewing conclusions of national bank examiners for conformity with 
Board rulings. 
Governor Maisel remarked that the problem was not limited to 
interlocking directorates; there were a number of other supervisory 
matters on which national bank examiners might have taken positions 
c°ntrary to those of the Board, for example, in the area of interpreta-
tion of the margin regulations. 
Mr. Hexter observed that in terms of manpower the enforcement 
the Board's regulations, as far as they affected the operations of 
national banks, had to be left largely to national bank examiners. The 
Reserve Banks would be greatly burdened if they were required to re-
examine all determinations by national bank examiners involving Board 
re8ulations. 

9/20/67 
- 1 1 -
3698 
Governor Brimmer suggested that it should be possible to iden-
tify those areas in which variance from Board positions was most likely 
to be found. 
> t,} v 
Open Market Committee meeting. Chairman Martin referred to 
Governor Maisel's recent suggestion that longer meetings of the Federal 
Open Market Committee be scheduled periodically. Mr. Brill had suggested 
that the meeting to be held on October 24, 1967, might provide a suitable 
°PPortunity, and Chairman Martin asked if the Board would be agreeable 
to a meeting on that day that would include morning and afternoon ses-
sions. xt was contemplated that a chart show would be presented in the 
afternoon. 
Governor Maisel remarked that several of the Reserve Bank Pres-
idents had expressed the hope that such a plan would soon be initiated. 
The members of the Board expressed agreement with the suggested 
schedule for October 24. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On September 19, 1967, a 
letter was sent to Bank of America National 
Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco, 
California, acknowledging receipt of notice of 
its intent to establish an additional branch 
in Buenos Aires, Argentina, to be located on 
Plaza Libertad. 
On September 19 and 20, 1967, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following let-
ters, copies of which are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated: 

9/20/67 
-12 -
0n September 19, 1967 
•4V 
? .i • 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
approving the appointment of Steven John Weber 
as assistant examiner. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, approving the establishment of nine 
branch offices at specified locations in con-
nection with the acquisition of the assets and 
mortgage servicing contracts of Marble Mortgage 
Company and Pacific States Mortgage Company. 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, approving the establishment of a 
branch in the city of Rolling Hills Estates, 
Los Angeles County. 
^September 20. 1967 
<ui r :!* 
i&the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Union Trust Company of Maryland, 
. timore, Maryland, approving an investment 
l n bank premises. 

370H 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
9/20/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 20, 1967 
®°ard of Directors, 
Merchants and Farmers State 
fiank of Weatherford, 
fatherford, Texas. 
Ge*tlemen: 
the
 
T h e B o a r d o f Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
Weath S t a b l i S h m e n t b y T h e M e r c h a n t s a n d Farmers State Bank of Weatherford, 
be c
 e r f o r d> Texas, of a branch, consisting of three drive-in windows to 
PteminStrUCted approximately 75 feet southeast of the bank's present 
the d5368' p r o v i d e d that the branch is established within one year from 
braricfte o f this letter. It has been determined that the proposed 
WiiiC 
W i l 1 s e r v e the convenience and needs of the community and it 
n°t tend to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
Voiu
 
T h e last examination of your bank revealed a fairly high 
The T ° f criticized loans 
and a less than satisfactory capital position. 
c°Ue°a^d U r g e s that action be taken to strengthen your bank's credit and 
p0siti l 0 n p o l i c i e s a n d that all means to improve your bank's capital 
9sset ° n b e c a r e f u l l y considered including a realignment of your bank's 
S J r u c t u r e a n d the sale of new capital stock. In this regard, the 
S t r enenT h e S t 0 b e a d v i s e d as to the steps which are being taken to 
n the bank's capital structure. 
visi0n
 
T h e Board of Governors also approves, pursuant to the pro-
inveSt®G°f S e c t i o n 2 4 A o f 
the Federal Reserve Act, an additional 
Und .,nt 
$116,600 in bank premises for the purpose of acquiring 
construction of the proposed drive-in facilities and the 
t h e ha lance of the acquired land for customer and employee 
8 • 
' -.•-a 
. 
Very truly yours, 
« 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

o / ' H 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 15 
9/20/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRREBPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 22, 1967 
M*- F. Garland Russell, Jr., 
Counsel and Assistant Secretary, 
federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
0. Box 442, 
St- Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Mr. Russell: 
b 
This refers to a letter of August 15, 1967, addressed to you 
y the^laW firm of Peper, Martin, Jensen, Maichel and Hetlage ("Peper 
to
rtin")> of St. Louis, Missouri, a copy of which has been forwarded 
° 
Board, and to your letter of comment on September 5, 1967, 
ressed to Miss Hart, of the Board's staff. Peper Martin is counsel 
und 3 N e W Y o r k S t o c k Exchange member firm engaged in broker/dealer and 
a ,erwriting activities, which proposes to become incorporated. Counsel 
PedS W l l e t h e r Partners and employees of the firm would be prevented by 
of 
R e s e r v e Regulation T (Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members 
Pur 
n a l S e c u r i t i e s Exchanges) from obtaining bank loans for the 
when?Se ° f P u r c h a s i n 8 stock in the resulting corporation; and if not, 
t
 
her the bank loans would be subject to margin and other restric-
ch U S i mP° s e d by Regulation U (Loans by Banks for the Purpose of Pur-
asing or Carrying Registered Stocks). 
pUr 
A loan by a bank is subject to Regulation U if it is for the 
- P0se of purchasing or carrying stock that is registered on a national 
Seeuritie 
, 
t l e s exchange ("purpose loan") and if collateral securing the loan 
iudes am; ct-^l/ 
T« 
rNv^o^^t- 
~ 
J 1 l 
/ j „ _ i „ „ 
C o>-
iticirat::i"0n 
ei*gage in all aspects of the investment business, 
f0re
 
inS dealing in registered stocks for its own account, and there-
teg- ° n e PurP°se of the loans will be to enable the concern to purchase 
£6p 
G r e d s t o c k s . Accordingly, as to the second question presented by 
the Board concludes that the loans will be subject to 
secure
ation U if any stock is included among the collateral serving to 
aPpliG t^em* 
I n t^is respect, the situation is covered by the principle 
stocksd-in a ^ ^ interpretation, holding that a bank loan secured by 
to C Q
S 
subject to Regulation U if it is made to enable the borrower 
Bu]^ ^tribute capital to a broker/dealer firm. (1946 Federal Reserve 
l n 995; Board Interpretations, 1 6450.) 
s any stock. In the present case, the proposed broker/dealer 

Mr« F. Garland Russell, Jr. 
- 2 -
u * 
The first question presents somewhat more difficulty. 
Section 
20.7(a) of Regulation T, with certain exceptions not relevant here, 
torbids a "creditor" subject to that regulation to arrange for any loan 
which the creditor could not himself make. The collateral in the present 
^ase would consist of unlisted securities, and section 7(c) of the 
Purities Exchange Act of 1934, pursuant to which Regulation T was 
Promulgated, forbids a creditor to extend credit against such securities. 
f. 
Partners and employees of a New York Stock Exchange member 
irm are "creditors" subject to Regulation T. In Sutro Bros. & Go., 
purities Act Release 7052 (1963), the Securities and Exchange Commission 
eid that registered representatives who had trading accounts with their 
^ n firms were "arranging" for loans in violation of section 220.7(a) 
Regulation T when they borrowed from unregulated lenders, in amounts 
Ceeding the maximum loan value under Regulation T of the collateral 
d e
C V ^ n 8 tlle l o a n s> t o finance their own accounts. The theory of the 
ision.was that a creditor who has a trading account with his own 
rm (the decision did not pass on the situation where the account is 
as
1J|t:ained with another firm), is in effect acting in a dual capacity, 
^ 
oth creditor and customer. He cannot separate the two roles and 
^ customer, obtain a loan which he could not, as creditor, arrange for 
customer other than himself. 
He 
Peper Martin urges that,since under section 220.4(f)(2) of 
sto T,a^i0n T* a c r e d i t o r may make a loan, for the purpose of purchasing 
the proposed corporation, to its partners or employees, or to 
Sect- ° l d e r S ° r P e r s o n s wll° w i l 1 become stockholders of the corporation, 
to ?~Or\220'7(a) permits partners and employees of a broker/dealer firm 
Cert tTai'n kank loans for the same purpose. This view gives rise to 
Vi s i
a i n technical difficulties, including the question whether a pro-
sUch°n 
signed to permit intra-firm loans, and carefully written in 
st0ci? W a y a s t o exclude loans by one firm to partners, employees, or 
obt . ° l d e r s of another, should be applied to permit such borrowers to 
l n credit for this purpose from any outside lender. 
of 
However, the Board concludes that the matter can be disposed 
cte(j- tlle b a s i s of the threshold question whether, in this case, a 
The B t 0 r i S " a r r a n8ing" for a loan within the meaning of section 220.7(a). 
of a h a r d b e l i e v e s tliat section 220.7(a) does not apply to the obtaining 
Under ^ ^ * 0 a n 
a P a r t n e r o r employee of a stock exchange member firm 
the £ 
circumstances described above. These circumstances include 
the i^1" t^lat the purpose of the loan is to purchase unlisted stock in 
of p CorPorated successor to the firm, stock which only a limited group 
c°ncirS°na c°nnected with the firm are eligible to buy, and the Board's 
Usion that the purppse of such loans under Regulation U would be 

v-
. 
3703 
•V?' Mr. F. Garland Russell, Jr. 
- 3 -
Q 
• 
.. 
' 
; • 
/ . 
• 
. : -r 
."V J» t_ i i I V 
^emed to be the purchasing or carrying of registered stock, so that 
f W 
loans would be subject to the margin and other requirements of 
Regulation U if such a loan is secured, directly or indirectly, by any 
stock, whether registered or unregistered. 
It will be appreciated if you would transmit the enclosed 
C0Py of this letter to the inquiring law firm. 
Very truly yours, 
• VA • 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
End 
i 
osure 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
<ji {.jvt* i Aijd 

a 704 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
9/20/67 
ADDRESS • FFI C IAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 20, 1967 
Mr. Harry W. Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Pugh's letter of September 14, 1967, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the appointment 
of Steven John Weber as an assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Please advise the effective date 
of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCESCO 
I t e m N o 
4 
9/20/67 
Scpteinbor Lj, i 
>* - , j. » » V- * v 
Si* , . t • 
, 
• ' • 
v • •«• 
• 'j,.. i 
*. 1 •. ,«. i 
i; I s • v-vU c
»
;
• •... . 
B**rd of Dlractoro, 
Unitod California Sank, 
Soutti Spring Street, 
^e Aujoies, California ^0534. 
^entleroens 
^ 
On behalf r>C t.ho ik?crd of Governors, acting under 
«elc;atud authority, this bank aoa approved the cttabliifier'tC 
V United California Sank, Los An^ele®, California, of branch 
_ ilUes at the follo</ln<; location, In connection '/US ti'ca 
c-u^aition of assets and mortgage a^r icin; contracts of 
"atMo Mort*a$2 Coor^any and Pacific States Mortga&e Coopany: 
!>70 University Avenue 
Palo Alto, California 
3643 ijrand Avenue - Suite 101 
Oak Land, California 
2201 Park Town Circle - Suite 
Saciaweuto, California 
iu-^g Stwnaan Way - Jjuitc L6 
K^Oiida, California 
ulj East 1711 Street 
Santa Ana, California 
U/<»5 A iitrort 
la;'M0rd, Ca H t oral a 
22/5 titOAjnp Crook 
San Jose, California 
•>4 j-5 Mt • Dia?«i o i>ou ic ^ard 
La £ayftto, California 
SI Caaincj Real 
Carloa, California 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK UK SAN rRANUISUO 
3708 
Board of Dirertot ft 
- 2 - 
Scptuabar 19, 
This approval is granted witn the urtdcrstaodin;; chat 
tUe activities oi tiios* branches will be I.itaitaJ to Uic? negoti-
ating, procceRintj, and servicing ot real est at*. Mortgage Joans. 
Voiy truly yours, 
Irvir I,. JutmjUigft, 
Vice President. 
; 
!.,».' , .... 
. . ^ ' » 
'in,'-,,: 
•uC<i : • •• 
• • • 
Jamison:db 
i.. • • ^ _ 
ccj Board 
State (2) 
Branch 
or ., ;!1,... ^ 
,yv, 
KK 1---' of 
; „, ; 
-UIZ', • 
L 
. k ^ v o -dr. v.; 
o^iv,. : • . : 
v* I i 
" 
„ 
\Aljl. i uu 
• : i 
•.. i.. v i ... 
. -
a :>y ;-mit;uj CuliUmui 
: 
''-XU.jjal^ii! 
C::,:; vitiiuiy 
Of Silver 
: ,, y t ' / vii.. V 
"a./:'" .. . 
j; ' . 
• 
Uuriii , 
^ ' 
' - 
• 
| 

F E D E R A L , R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F H A N O I S O O , C A L I F O R N I A 
9 4 1 2 0 
Item No. 5 
September 19, 1967 
9/20/67 
Hal Mendon, 
Senior Executive Vice President, 
United California Dank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Angelea, California 90054. 
De*r Mr. Mendon; 
Reference is made to your letter dated August^2l>JL967 
questing permission for the establishntttttrdlSa branch offiL in 
HatL* 
lB.lty ° f S U v e r S p U r R o a d a D d ^ c h 6 a t e drive, Rolling V i l a 
urates, Los Angeles County, California. 
j 
\ 
On the baaia of our field investigation and our general 
^ox#ledge o f y Q u r b a n k^ 
t h 
Wii?d°qUate* 
is satisfactory 
U 1 serve the convenience and n^eds of 
Dr«nch will not te 
tjie bank's capitalization 
to create 
that the proposed branch 
lie community and that the 
undesirable competitive situation. 
*uth< 
On behalf\of the Board 6£ Governors, acting under delegated 
ty, this Bank\approves t\\t establishment by United California 
Los Angeles, California of a branch in the vicinity of Silver 
and Ueechgate Drive, Rolling Hills Estates, Los Angeles 
thA h 
C a l l f o r n l 5 * Provided the branch is established one year from 
d*te of this letter. 
Vary truly yours, 
(alga^di Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

F E D E R A L RESSERVE B A N K OF R I C H M O N D 
COPY 
370 8 
R I C H M O N D , 
V I R G I N I A 
2 3 2 1 3 
Item No. 6 
9 / 2 0 / 6 7 
September 20, 1967. 
Bo«?4 of Director*, 
raderal jui^vvs ;;y , 
Union Trust Company of dryland, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21203. 
Otntlfiacat 
; Uivd ^ 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A 
of the Federal Reserve Act, the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond, on behalf of and under authority delegated 
by the Board of Governors of the federal Reserve Sy»ten, 
approves en additional Investment in bank premises of 
$1,500,000 by Union Vrust Company of Karyland, Baltimore, 
Maryland, for the purpose of constructing a building on 
Guilford Avenue between Saratoga and Lexington Streets, 
Btflttaore, Usryland. 
iy ch C y 
havo 
ihi iT.ii'Ui: 
Yours very truly, 
/ IcUu 
CLuM^H^ 
Edu. A. Uayne,j 
President. 
