Minutes for 
November 6, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
. i ( 
> i 
; 
. 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

0 
3 3 0 5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, November 6, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Cleaver and Hanweck, Economists, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Report on money markets. Messrs. Holland and Brill commented 
on the market situation following yesterday's national elections. 
In 
general, the markets were reported to be quiet. 

n 
- V 
• f > 
11/6/68 
-2-
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of The Saint Marys National Bank, St. Marys, 
Pennsylvania, into Elk County Bank and Trust Company, also of 
St. Marys, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corpo-
ration. The conclusion read as follows: 
The Saint Marys National Bank was organized in 1867 
and in 1903 its founders organized St. Marys Trust Company, 
the predecessor to Elk County Bank and Trust Company. Con-
summation of this proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Bank of Lehighton, 
Lehighton, Pennsylvania, into Peoples First National Bank and Trust 
Company, Hazleton, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller, the conclusion being stated as follows: 
Although no competition exists between The Bank of 
Lehighton and Peoples First National Bank and Trust Company, 
Hazleton, there is potential for development of competition 
between them in view of the State's branch banking statutes. 
The overall competitive effect of the merger would be slightly 
adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Birmingham Trust National 
;
 
...; • 
> 3 of cHo ".nUac:,; »*.:' p'-y^r, „,
 1 
Bank, Birmingham, Alabama, into Alabama National Bank, also of Birmingham, 
- ' 
'1 in 
• vt; r:\--c 
• :rv ;: .:? • 
r •:*•• " 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The 
conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed merger would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 

11/6/68 
-3-
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of American Fletcher National 
Bank and Trust Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, into Marion County 
National Bank, also of Indianapolis, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion stated that consummation 
of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Policy record entries. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from Mr. Broida dated November 5, 1968, submitting drafts of policy 
record entries covering the meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee on August 13 and 19, 1968, respectively. 
It was proposed 
to release the August 13 entry to the press on Tuesday afternoon, 
November 12, and to release the August 19 entry on Monday, November 18. 
The entries were now being submitted for final review by the Board. 
An earlier version of the August 13 entry had been approved by the 
Board on October 22, as had the entry for August 19. No further 
changes had been suggested for the latter entry; however, the August 13 
entry had been revised to take account of a suggested clarification of 
language. 
In connection with the August 13 entry, Governors Maisel and 
Mitchell questioned the analysis of the balance of payments situation 
as reflected in the statement that "In the second quarter the U.S. 
foreign trade balance had deteriorated further. Nevertheless, the 
over-all payments balance on the liquidity basis, although still in 
deficit, had improved substantially as a result of various special 

>9 
11/6/68 
-4-
official transactions." 
Governor Maisel argued that in return for the 
special transactions that improved the balance the U.S. must have given 
some quid pro quo, and that it was faulty analysis to cite the one 
without the other. Governor Mitchell suggested that mention of special 
transactions in the way proposed might seem invidious. 
Mr. Reynolds remarked that a wide variety of quid pro quos 
had been given by the U.S. in return for the special transactions, 
but that they could not readily be quantified. He went on to describe 
the quid pro quos that had been*given to the Canadians and to explain 
that the Division of International Finance, in analyzing balance of 
payments developments, abstracted from special official transactions 
on the grounds that they were nonrecurring and insubstantial, so 
that it seemed desirable to study what was happening apart from such 
transactions. 
Governor Robertson said that he would accept the staff's 
analysis and noted that the approach could not be changed fundamentally 
without further work and analysis. Governor Daane stated that he 
also had sympathy for the view expressed by Mr. Reynolds, but that 
he was bothered by the possibly invidious connotation of the state-
ment about special transactions in the policy record. 
Governor Brimmer asked how the matter had been treated in 
the policy record in the past, to which Mr. Reynolds replied that 
there had been numerous references to special transactions previously, 

3 9 0 9 
11/6/68 
- 5 -
although this may have been the first time when such transactions 
accounted for the difference between improvement and no improvement 
in the liquidity balance. 
Governor Sherrill said he understood the desirability of 
abstracting from transactions that were nonrecurrent, although he 
had some question whether the language of the policy record entry 
made this point entirely clear. 
Mr. Holland then suggested an editorial change designed to 
indicate that the transactions in question were "special" only from 
a certain analytical point of view. There was general agreement 
that such a change would be an improvement, even though it would 
not meet the problem completely. Accordingly, the change was agreed 
upon. 
In answer to a question, Mr. Molony remarked that usually 
the published policy record did not appear to be read as closely as 
today's discussion might seem to imply. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the release to the press 
on Tuesday, November 12, of the entry relating to the August 13 
meeting, and to the release of the August 19 entry on November 18. 
Topics for discussion with Federal Advisory Council (Item No. 1). 
There had been distributed a memorandum from the Office of the 
Secretary dated November 5, 1968, relating to a suggestion that a 
question on formation of community development corporations be included 

3310 
11/6/68 
-6-
among the topics for discussion at the forthcoming meeting of the 
Federal Advisory Council. 
(A suggested list of topics had previously 
been forwarded to the Secretary of the Council in accordance with 
the understanding at the Board meeting on October 18.) 
There was general agreement with the suggestion. 
It was 
also agreed to seek the views of the Council on the draft of the 
Board's proposed regulation to implement the Bank Protection Act of 
1968. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Secretary of the 
Council is attached as Item No. 1. 
Quarterly report on financial developments (Item No. 2). 
Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting on October 31, 1968, 
there had been distributed (under date of November 5) a revised draft 
°f the first quarterly report on financial developments to be submitted 
to Chairman Proxmire of the Joint Economic Committee in accordance 
with Chairman Martin's letter of September 9, 1968. 
Governor Mitchell suggested the inclusion of a few guideposts 
indicating the major financial sectors on which the report would touch 
and also, at the beginning of the report, a summary of developments 
that resulted in the change of posture from severe restraint in the 
second quarter to one of less restraint in the third quarter. 
Governor Daane suggested that the guideposts might be set 
forth 
in the letter of transmittal to Senator Proxmire. 
Governor 
Mitchell agreed, adding that in order for the format not to become 
frozen the letter should also make clear that developments could well 
result in changes in the scope and format of future reports. 

3911 
11/6/68 
-7-
Governor Brimmer inquired as to the extent to which the 
report would be publicized by the Board, and Mr. Molony said it was 
his understanding that, although the report would not be the subject 
of a press release, it would be made available to interested parties 
upon request and would be published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
There was no objection to this approach. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the sending of the 
report on financial developments in the third quarter of 1968. 
Copies of the transmittal letter to Senator Proxmire and of the 
report are attached as Item No. 2. 
Voting on holding company and merger applications (Item No. 3). 
Reference was made to a memorandum dated May 10, 1968, from 
Mr. Hackley recommending revision of the Board's statement of 
internal procedures with respect to holding company and merger 
applications, originally adopted in 1961. The procedures recommended 
reflected Mr. Hackley's understanding of the consensus at the meeting 
on April 8, 1968, at which the subject was previously considered. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft statement of procedures, the 
main effect of which would be as follows: 
(1) A member of the Board not present at a meeting 
when action was taken on an application would be recorded 
as absent and not voting. He would not be entitled to 
have his vote recorded at a later date unless the Board 
should decide to reconsider the matter and he was present 
when the application was reconsidered. 

11/6/68 
-8-
(2) A member present at the meeting at which action 
was taken on an application could, at any time prior to 
approval of the order and statement, alter his vote if 
such alteration would not change the Board's decision. 
If 
alteration of his vote would change the Board's decision, 
he would be entitled to alter his vote only if the Board 
should decide to reconsider the case. 
(3) Any member of the Board, whether or not present 
at the meeting at which action was taken on an application, 
could request that the Board reconsider the matter, but the 
matter would be reconsidered only if four members of the 
Board agreed to reconsider. 
(4) 
If the Board should decide to reconsider its 
earlier action on an application, members present at the 
meeting at which the application was reconsidered would 
be entitled to vote, whether or not they were present at 
the meeting at which earlier action was taken. The action 
taken at the time of such reconsideration, whether affirmance 
or reversal of the previous action, would supersede the 
Board's earlier action. 
Mr. Hackley reviewed the memorandum, following which he rec-
ommended that a few other changes of a technical nature be made in 
the statement of procedure while it was in process of being revised. 
He then responded to several questions from members of the Board 
regarding clarification of certain points. 
Governor Daane stated that he was troubled that reconsideration 
of an application might result from a shift in the composition of 
Board attendance after the time of the original action. He suggested 
that this could be avoided if there was a requirement that a full 
Board or, at least the orignial participants, be present at the time 
an application was brought up for reconsideration. Mr. Hackley 
observed that such a requirement might result in considerable delay, 

3913 
( 
11/6/68 
-9-
and Mr. Holland called attention to the proviso in the rules of 
procedure that an attempt would be made to schedule close or con-
troversial cases at meetings at which six or seven members were 
expected to be present. Governor Daane remarked that a special 
effort should be made to observe that proviso. 
The statement of internal procedures with respect to holding 
company and merger applications was then approved unanimously in 
the form attached as Item No. 3. 
Services of Mr. Olin. Governor Robertson stated that 
negotiations were under way to obtain the services of John P. Olin, 
Assistant Vice President and Secretary of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis, to assist the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
in the truth in lending function for a period of approximately six 
to twelve months. 
It was proposed that the Reserve Bank would 
continue to pay Mr. Olin's salary as well as travel expenses incident 
to his services with the Board, except that the Board would bear the 
cost of his travel from time to time between Washington and Minneapolis 
and any travel away from Washington on Board business. 
' 
U ' He • ' . 
i i 
The arrangements suggested by Governor Robertson were approved 
unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

¥i 
3914 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
11/6/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
November 7, 1968. 
Mr. Herbert V. Prochnow, 
Secretary, 
Federal Advisory Council, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Herb: 
Attached is a revised list of topics suggested 
by the Board for discussion at the meeting of the Federal 
Advisory Council on November 18, 1968, and the joint meet-
ing of the Board and the Council on November 19. The 
changes from the list I forwarded to you on October 18 
consist of the additions of the questions numbered 5 and 6 
in the attachment. 
i 
i
 1 
We are sending you under separate cover 15 copies 
of the draft regulation to implement the Bank Protection 
Act of 1968, referred to in question 6. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Attachment 
= 
' V ^ H 
< 
.> 
V I 
X "J iV.i 
Ch3 
wO VVO. 
OH 
'.-..Ap 
: 
. : - :: 
I / v v • \ * \ .'
;
 - 
-•n--.- r 
' 

Suggested Topics for Discussion at Meeting of 
Federal Advisory Council on November 18-19, 1968 
Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general economic outlook 
for late 1968 and early 1969? Are there any indications 
that the mid-year tax increase is affecting consumer 
spending or business policies and plans, or that the 
measures with respect to limitations on Government spend-
ing are having an impact? 
B. What indications do Council members have from customer 
contacts regarding capital investment spending in the 
year ahead? 
Is more or less external financing than 
recently likely to be required for such spending? 
Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the probable strength 
of business loan demand in the months ahead? What kinds 
of customer reactions have developed to the prevailing 
"split" prime rate? 
B. In view of the prospects for exceptionally heavy mortgage 
loan demand, especially in the income-property area, does 
the Council believe that banks will significantly increase 
their takings of mortgages in 1969? 
C. What is the Council's view regarding current and prospective 
inflows of consumer-type time deposits? 
Has the tax increase 
had any noticeable effect on such flows? 
D. How would the Council assess the experience of member banks 
thus far with the new methods of computing reserve require-
ments under the amendment to Regulation D that became effec-
tive September 12, 1968? 
E. What responses, if any, in banker plans have Council members 
observed to the Board's action allowing State member banks 
to own and operate certain kinds of subsidiary corporations 
and loan production offices? 
F. What comments or suggestions do Council members have regard-
ing regulatory provisions the Board might issue in implementa-
tion of the recently enacted legislation concerning regulation 
of advertising of rates of interest on deposits? 

3 
3. Balance of payments 
A. How does the Council appraise the outlook for the remainder 
of the year for (1) demands for Euro-dollar loans at foreign 
branches of U.S. banks, (2) Euro-dollars advanced by branches 
to home offices, and (3) direct borrowings from foreign banks 
by U.S. banks (i.e., not through foreign branches)? 
B. Do Council members have any comments or suggestions with 
respect to a voluntary foreign credit restraint program for 
4. The Board would be interested in any comments Council members 
might have on the draft of the proposed regulation to implement 
the Truth in Lending Title of the Consumer Credit Protection Act 
that was published on October 16. 
5. The Board would appreciate having the views of the Council members 
as to the prospects for and any legal or other problems seen in 
the formation of community development corporations or similar 
arrangements (either by individual banks, groups of banks, or 
banks and other institutions) for the purpose of extending 
financing or real estate development assistance to businesses 
and consumers in the economically disadvantaged areas of cities. 
6. The Board would be interested in any comments Council members 
might have on the draft of the Board's proposed regulation to 
implement the Bank Protection Act of 1968 that has been released 
for publication on November 8. 
7. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit policy under 
current circumstances? 
1969? 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• 
F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 
11/6/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
November 7, 1968. 
The Honorable William Proxmire, 
Chairman, 
Joint Economic Committee, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am transmitting herewith the first of the 
quarterly reports on financial developments that was 
promised in my letter to you of September 9. The report 
attempts to highlight the important developments in 
financial markets and interest rates over the summer months, 
with emphasis on the relationships among Treasury financing 
needs, private credit demands, and banking and monetary 
flows. You will appreciate, of course, that some of the 
statistical material on which the analysis is based is still 
preliminary and subject to revision. 
As we go along, it may prove desirable to 
change both the scope and format of the reports. 
Sincerely yours, 
^ ^ ^ 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure. 

3818 
Financial Developments in the Third Quarter of 1968 
The shifting mix of fiscal and monetary policies, fluctuating 
market expectations about the future strength of business activity 
and of credit demands, and relatively heavy credit demands from the 
Federal Government and State and local Governments were the dominant 
factors in financial markets during the third quarter. 
The move toward fiscal restraint as a result of the tax 
increase and spending constraints legislated in June led to market 
expectations of declining interest rates, predicated for the most 
Part cn anticipations of a weaker business outlook and an easier 
monetary policy. Longer-term interest rates and Treasury bill rates 
declined during the first part of the summer. In recognition of the 
market impact of the change in the fiscal stance, Federal Reserve 
discount rates were reduced from 5-1/2 to 5-1/4 per cent in mid-
summer to align these rates with developing conditions in credit 
markets. 
The reduced level of market interest rates enabled banks 
to acquire more funds through an accelerated expansion of time and 
savings deposits, particularly of large denomination negotiable time 
certificates of deposit. Time deposit inflows to banks had been 
severely constrained in the second quarter when short-term market 
xfii Cv'i. 
Vi'i'tl.s-jtly iXi.) cI'M^V* 1 tfv5J-3£7i,'--> i 
* -uCOItii * tf >r £ C • 

interest rates rose to and above Regulation Q ceiling rates. The 
greater availability of funds to banks in the summer months enabled 
them sharply to expand investments in U.S. Government and State 
and local Government securities. 
In 
contrast to the accelerated growth in time and 
savings deposits, growth in the money stock—currency and private 
demand deposits taken together—slowed in the third quarter, to a 
4-1/2 
per cent annual rate, or about half the second quarter pace. 
There appeared to be some easing of transactions demands for cash, 
as the rise in gross national product moderated and as there was 
some abatement in stock market activity. In addition, money stock 
growth in the summer was held down as sizable Treasury cash borrow-
ing and enhanced tax receipts led to a larger than seasonal net 
transfer of funds from private to U.S. Government balances. Thus, 
although the total of private bank deposits grew rapidly over the 
summer, the increase reflected divergent trends among component 
types of deposits, with expansion in private demand balances slow-
ing sharply and private time deposit growth accelerating. 
System open market operations provided the reserves to 
support the resurgence in time deposit growth, as well as the rise 
in Treasury cash balances. In the third quarter, the total 
reserves of the banking system grew at about a 9 per cent annual rate, 
compared with virtually no change in reserves in the second quarter 
of the year when time deposit growth was limited and Treasury 
balances were being drawn down. 

3920 
-3-
• t 
. 
i 
As summer progressed, the economic developments Indicated 
more strength than many market participants had expected. 
Moreover, 
relatively high day-to-day financing costs--typified by the Federal 
funds and dealer loan rates--persisted. Under these circumstances, 
and with credit demands remaining generally strong, long- and short-
term market interest rates backed up from their mid-summer lows. 
Interest rates remained below their spring peaks, however, partly 
reflecting a continued relatively large availability of funds for 
investment by banks. 
Demands on credit markets 
Credit demands during the third quarter were sustained both 
by the Federal Government's need for funds and by continued relatively 
heavy borrowing by other sectors of the economy. As shown below, the 
Federal Government's net cash borrowing in the third quarter came to 
$7.7 billion, almost as much as in the third quarter of 1967. With 
the budget deficit lower than a year ago, however, much of this 
borrowing enabled the Government to build up its cash balance from 
the relatively low mid-year level and to prepare for the seasonally 
large fourth quarter deficit. 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT BORROWING AND CASH BALANCE 
(Quarterly totals, in $ billion, not seasonally adjusted) 
1967 
1968 
- '
 
1
 . V. ,
 1
 >. UU ;> 4 
Budget surplus or 
III 
IV 
I 
II 
III 
- '
 
1
 . V. ,
 1
 >. UU ;> 4 
Budget surplus or 
deficit (-) 
-8.9 
-10.9 
-8.6 
2.8 
-3.2 
Net cash borrowing 
• 
or repayment (-) 
8.5 
10.4 
6.7 
-2.6 
7.7 
Change in cash 
balance 
1.0 
- 1.1 
- .2 
- .1 
3.3 

O n ? i 
. 
o : y a* X 
#4-
Credlt demands from other sectors of the economy in the 
b i x f i v 
t 
third quarter were sustained by record offerings of State and local 
Government bonds, shown in the following table, as State and local 
Government expenditures continued to rise relatively rapidly. Indus-
trial revenue bonds added at the margin to the size of new offerings, 
with many offerings coming to market before the end-of-year cut-off 
date, when such bonds of large denomination will no longer be tax 
exempt» 
MONTHLY AVERAGE OFFERINGS OF NEW SECURITY ISSUES 
($ billion; not seasonally adjusted) 
1967 
1968 
III 
IV 
I 
II 
III 
Corporate bonds 
2.1 
1.7 
1.4 
1.6- 
1.3 
State and local 
Gov't issues 
l.u 
1,1 
1.2 
1.2 
1.5 
e 
e/ Estimated. 
Corporate bond issues In the third quarter were substantial 
by most earlier standards but were below the record volume of a year 
4/ i'j; 
earlier, which was still being augmented by corporate efforts to 
Improve liquidity positions and restructure outstanding debt. Short-
term borrowing by businesses, particularly at banks, was sustained by 
continued fairly high rates of business inventory accumulation as 
well as additional corporate tax payments stemming from the tax legis-
lation enacted in June. 
h 
.J 
la £ i ) B •/•..-U-. 
,a.!<» 
Demands for mortgage credit remained large during the summer, 
S'Kc-.t'v., 
. 
• 
l a 
' C-i^ro'do L J k 
• 
•li,..Kiir 
as the backlog of housing demand led to a continued relatively advanced 
b ' , level of construction activity. At the same time, the surge in consumer 

-5-
buying of durable goods led to an acceleration in the growth of out-
standing consumer instalment debt. 
While the net increase in mortgage debt outstanding was 
slightly 
slower in the third quarter than in the second (after adjust-
ing for seasonal patterns), there was a pick-up in mortgage commitment 
activity of financial institutions. Net savings inflows to thrift 
institutions were sustained through and after the mid-year interest 
crediting period, and declines in interest rates on competitive market 
instruments made mortgages a relatively more attractive investment 
outlet. 
QUARTERLY CHANGES IN MORTGAGE AND CONSUMER DEBT 
($ billion, seasonally adjusted) 
1967 
1968 
III 
IV 
I 
II 
III
e 
Mortgage debt 
6.5 
6.9 
6.7 
6.6 
6.2 
Consumer instalment 
debt 
.9 
1.1 
1.5 
1.8 
2.2 
w X Estimated. 
Note: Net change in outstanding debt. 
Supply of funds through the banking system 
The banking system was able to accommodate a greater share 
total credit demands in the third quarter, in large measure reflect-
ing banks' success in recapturing time deposit funds, flows of which 
had dwindled earlier in the year. Banks also continued to increase the 
amount of funds obtained in the Euro-dollar market through their 
^ranches. 

The increase in time deposits, together with a rise in 
Treasury balances, was accommodated by a monetary policy which per-
mitted total bank reserves to expand during the third quarter, as 
shown in the table below. There had been little change in such 
reserves outstanding in the previous quarter, when time and savings 
deposit growth slowed and when U.S. Government balances were being 
reduced, sharply so when adjusted for past seasonal patterns. Non-
borrowed reserves of banks increased more rapidly than the total in 
the summer months because, as market interest rates fell relative to 
the discount rate, banks utilized reserves supplied through Federal 
Reserve open market operations to reduce borrowings at the Reserve 
Banks' discount window, 
GROWTH IN RESERVES AND DEPOSITS 
(Percentage annual rate of change from preceding period) 
u<i 
Total Reserves 
Nonborrowed 
reserves 
Total member 
hank deposit* 
(bank credit 
proxy) 
1967 
1968 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
I 
II 
III 
17.0 
4.0 
11.3 
5.9 
10.5 0.1 
8.9 
24.8 
5.3 
12,3 
2.1 
4.6 -0.2 
13.2 
15.4 
8.7 
13.7 
7.2 
7.0 1.2 
13,1 
Note: Changes are based on seasonally adjusted data for last month in 
period shown and in preceding period, 
••• 
p:;!;*,^; L w c t w . i i 
.^s* 
ic: j.hs " 
During the third quarter, time and savings deposits at banks 
' ' ' ' J
1
*.; £
 
c
' 
> 
M..1 
til-:: . c .•' <. 
C '"•'•'.' • 
expanded at an 18 per cent annual rate, compared with an expansion rate 
/i tj i ? : 
\ 
Q ' 
;,it') ; : • * . • s •:••..-... •.
 
v
 . » 
f' . 
°£ only 3 per cent in the spring quarter. This time deposit growth was 

-7-
3g24 
sparked by banks' efforts to recapture funds through issuance of large 
negotiable certificates of deposit that they had been unable to obtain 
°r retain in previous months, when yields on Treasury bills and other 
short-term market instruments rose to or above Regulation Q ceiling 
rates. 
With CD's relatively uncompetitive, the amounts outstanding 
declined by almost $1.5 billion during the second quarter. As bill 
a
nd other short-term rates dropped following the tax increase, 
commercial banks quickly rebuilt their outstanding CD's to previous 
Peak levels and beyond, with CD's rising by $3 billion during the third 
quarter. 
While issuance of large CD's was the principal source of the 
rapid deposit expansion of the third quarter, a somewhat more rapid net 
inflow of other time and savings deposits also developed as consumers 
shifted some funds back to banks, mainly to smaller denomination time 
eertificates and notice accounts. However, the sharp reduction in the 
r a
te of personal saving during the third quarter, when consumer spend-
ing expanded, tended to limit expansion of consumer-type time and 
savings deposits at banks. The decline in personal savings also affected 
t h
e flow into savings accounts at mutual savings banks and savings and 
ioan associations, which on balance increased no more rapidly in the 
third quarter of 1968 than in the previous three quarters. 
While more of the public's funds went into interest-bearing 
deposits, growth in private demand deposits and in the money stock 

o : 
-8-
moderated. During the third quarter, growth in the money stock was at 
about a 4-1/2 per cent, annual rate (measured from the average outstand-
lit i ^ »» , 
.: .,v ... • .. •; 
ing in June to the average outstanding in September), with currency 
outstanding showing a larger rate of rise than demand deposits. 
The growth rate of the total money stock was about half the 
advance of the previous quarter. The money stock had grown rapidly 
during the second quarter, accompanying a sharp expansion in gross 
• 
national product and in financial, particularly stock market, activity. 
The rapid advance in money balances during the spring was fairly steady, 
culminating around mid-year, and brought balances to a level from which 
1/ 
they showed little net change thereafter during the third quarter. 
GROWTH IN MONEY STOCK AND TIME AND SAVINGS ACCOUNTS 
(Percentage annual rates of change from preceding period) 
1967 
1968 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
I 
II 
H I 
Money stock 
6.6 
6.5 
7.0 
4.9 
4.6 
8.7 
4.5 
Time and 
> 
Savings Depos-
its at Banks 
19.7 
16.2 
15.8 
9.1 
7.0 
3.2 
1719 
Savings Accounts 
in Thrift 
Institutions 
9.5 
11.3 
9.4 
6.1 
6.2 
6.1 
6.1 
Note: Changes are based on seasonally adjusted data for last month in 
period shown and in preceding period. 
1/ In view of the pattern of change in the money supply—rising through-
out the second quarter and then tending to level off at the higher level 
over the summer—the average daily level of cash balances outstanding 
in the third quarter was about 8 per cent higher, at an annual rate, than 
the average daily level outstanding in the second quarter. 

orf/ob 
-9-
Though the money stock tends to fluctuate fairly widely in 
the short-run, the slowing of money growth in the course of the third 
quarter reflected in part reduced transactions demands for additional 
cash, given the already advanced levels of cash holdings, as economic 
and also stock market activity moderated• In addition, Treasury 
financing and fiscal activities tended to reduce private demand depos-
*ts in the third quarter, after having increased them in the second. 
As the Treasury draws down its deposits to make payments, or as 
Treasury deposits rise as a result of receipts from private sectors, 
thi 
s tends to be reflected, at least temporarily, in partly offsetting 
movements of private demand deposits. In the second quarter the 
Treasury added to the flow of private demand deposits reaching the 
public by reducing its cash balance contra-seasonally, while in the 
third quarter sizable Treasury cash borrowing and enhanced tax receipts 
led to larger than seasonal net transfers from private demand deposits 
to U . G o v e r n m e n t deposits, 
Banks
1
 use of funds 
The rapidity with which banks regained CD funds during the 
third quarter enabled them to accommodate a much larger share of credit 
demands, particularly demands coming through securities markets. In 
> 
the summer, banks were especially aggressive investors in an effort to 
nail down relatively high-yielding portfolio investments at a time when 
interest rates were generally expected to decline. 
* 
. 

-10-
Because banks purchased a substantial share of the U.S. 
and State and local Government securities offered in markets during 
the summer, about two-fifths of the $17 billion third quarter rise in 
total loan and investments of banks was in the form of securities. 
Another one-fifth of the bank credit expansion was in the form of 
security loans, advanced in part to U.S. Government security dealers 
as they helped underwrite Treasury financings and also built up 
security inventories in anticipation of future interest rate declines. 
QUARTERLY CHANGE IN BANK CREDIT AND VARIOUS COMPONENTS 
($ billion, seas, adj.) 
1967 
1^68 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
I 
II 
H I 
Total Loans and 
Investments 
11.0 
4.7 
12.9 
7.4 
6.0 
5.3 
17.0 
U. S. Government 
Securities 
U. S. Government 
Securities 
3.7 -1.4 
5.5 
-1.7 
0.2 
0.5 
3.6 
Other 
Securities 
3.7 
3.8 
1.5 
3.7 
2.2 
0.3 
3.1 
Loans, 
Total 
3.7 
2.2 
5.8 
5.5 
3.6 
4.5 
10.3 
Business 
2.3 
1.9 
1.5 
2.0 
1.5 
1.8 
2.3 
Consumer 
0,4 
0.4 
0.7 
0.7 
1.0 
0.9 
1.5 
Real Estate 0.7 
0.8 
1.4 
1.7 
1.7 
1.3 
1.3 
Security 
0.4 -0.9 
2.2 
-0.4 
-0.5 
-0.5 
3.8 
Apart from security loans, there was a moderately larger growth 
in bank loans during the third quarter as compared with second, mainly 
: day- 
. r/> 
li-jr. Xiu 
oi 
resulting from bank participation in the expansion of consumer credit. 
' , " / iI ' c.*y *t :> J ,/ * 
c 
; 
• 
.' 'SOiiOC:* 
Interest rate changes 
Most interest rates during the third quarter were lower on 
average than in the preceding quarter, as shown in the table below. 

a 
-11-
This was mainly the result of expectational factors and the Initial 
J-ropact of the resumed participation in security markets by banks. 
MARKET INTEREST RATES, 1968 
- $ • tk' 
federal Funds Rate~ 
3-Month Treasury 
bill 
U
*S. Gov't 
^ Bonds 2/ 
Corporate Aaa 
(New issues) 
Municipal bonds 
(20-year Bond Buyer)4.71 (5/24) 
M
°rtgages (30-year 
F.H.A.) 
7.52 (June) 
Hishs 
6.34 (4/15) 
5.92 (5/21) 
5.77 (3/14) 
6.33 (5/24) 
• ;-> l)V ».- V •
 1
 V . . - : J 
Lows 
I 
II 
III 
4.54 (1/3) 
4.79 
5.99 
5.95 
4.82 (1/29) 
5.05 
5.52 
5.20 
5.14 (8/2) 
5.46 
5.47 
5.26 
6.13 (8/16) 
6.32 
6.63 
6.36 
4.07 (8/8) 
4.38 
4-46 
4.31 
6.78 (Feb.) 
6.81 
7.32 
7.35 
•1/ Highs and lows represent daily averages during a statement week. 
—' 20-year constant maturity series. 
The early summer decline of long-term interest rates and Treasury 
kill rates brought them to levels that were from 60 to 100 basis points 
lower than the previous highs for the year reached in spring. At their 
lows for the quarter in early or mid-August, the 3-month bill rate was just 
under 5 per cent (on a discount basis), 20-year U.S. Government securities 
w
ere around 5.15 per cent, and high-grade new corporate Issues (with 
^*year call protection) were around 6.15 per cent. 
While these interest rates declined, there was little net change 
the cost of day-to-day money, as noted earlier. The persistence of 
re
latively high day-to-day financing costs, together with growing doubts 
that the business situation was as weak as expected or that monetary policy 
w
°uld become as easy as many had anticipated, contributed to a rise in 
interest rates from these lows. The rise in yields continued into late 

o H / w j
1 
-12-
summer and early fall, but key market interest rates have remained about 
20-40 basis points below their highs for the year. With the over-all 
market interest rate structure at a somewhat reduced level, and with 
banks able to attract funds for loans and investments, banks in late 
September reduced the prime loan rate. 
Mortgage yields, as measured by the secondary market yield on 
FHA-insured loans, averaged slightly higher in the third than the second 
quarter. But this in part reflected the higher level of the series 
following the jump in yields in May, when the permissible contract rate 
was raised. After June, yields -declined moderately on a month-to-month 
basis, though, as usual, tending to lag the reduction in other market 
interest rates. 

3930 
Item No. 3 
11/6/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
INTERNAL PROCEDURES WITH RESPECT TO 
HOLDING COMPANY AND MERGER APPLICATIONS 
As revised effective November 6, 1968 
In addition to the procedures described in the Board's 
published Rules of Procedure, the internal procedures described 
below are followed by the Board in its consideration of applications 
for approval of transactions under section 3 of the Bank Holding 
Company Act and of applications for consent to bank mergers under 
section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. These procedures 
apply 
to both types of applications unless otherwise indicated. 
1. Summary memoranda in certain cases. - In any case in 
which it appears to the Board's staff that the Board may wish to con-
sider whether (1) to order a hearing or (2) to afford the applicant 
and interested persons an opportunity to present oral views before 
the Board, the staff will submit the matter to the Board with a 
summary memorandum regarding the facts of the case and the nature 
of any adverse views. Normally, such a summary memorandum will be 
submitted in cases in which it appears that the facts are uncertain 
or inadequate or in which significant adverse views have t>een sub-
< 
mitted by interested persons (including Government agencies). 

3931 
-2-
2. Staff memoranda. - As to each application, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation will submit to the Board a comprehensive 
memorandum analyzing the facts and setting forth the views and recom-
mendation of the Division; and the Legal Division and the Banking 
Markets Section of the Division of Research and Statistics may submit 
such memoranda as may be appropriate. In any case in which a formal 
hearing is held, such staff memoranda will not be submitted to the 
Board until the hearing has been concluded, the Hearing Officer's 
report and all briefs have been filed, and oral argument, if any, has 
been heard by the Board. .In any case in which no hearing is held but 
in which the Board schedules an oral presentation of views before the 
Board, the Division of Supervision and Regulation will submit a com-
prehensive memorandum prior to the oral presentation; and, if necessary, 
will submit a supplemental memorandum subsequent to such presentation. 
3. Consideration and action by the Board. - Following sub-
mission of the staff memoranda referred to in Paragraph 2, and following 
any hearing or oral presentation of views, the Board will consider the 
merits of the case at a meeting of the Board. The staff will present 
the matter orally and respond to any questions, and the members of the 
Board will then express their views. Unless the Board decides to defer 
its decision in order to obtain additional information or to avoid a 
tie vote or for other reasons, the votes of the members present will 
then be recorded. The decision reflected by such votes shall constitute 
final action by the Board unless superseded by reconsideration under 
Paragraph 5 hereof. 

-3-
Drafts of Order and proposed Statements. - Following 
the Board's action on an application, the Legal Division will prepare 
an Order reflecting such action and, in consultation with the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section, will 
prepare a draft of a proposed Statement setting forth the reasons for 
such action. The Legal Division will also prepare, if desired, drafts 
of Statements reflecting any dissenting views of Board members. The 
drafts of the Board's Order and Statement will be considered for 
approval by the Board at a subsequent meeting. They will be dated 
as of the date of such consideration even though the Board's action 
was taken at a previous meeting. 
5. Reconsideration. - Upon the request of any member of the 
Board prior to approval of the Order And Statement on the application, 
the Board, by the affirmative vote of four of its members, may deter-
mine to reconsider its earlier action. The Board's action will not be 
reconsidered after issuance of the Order and Statement except as pro-
vided in section 262.3(f)(6) of the Board's published Rules of Procedure. 
Any action taken by the Board upon reconsideration of a case will super-
sede its initial action. 
6. Voting by Board members. - Votes of Board members will 
be cast at the meeting at which the merits of an application are con-
sidered and final action is taken; members not present at such meeting 
will be recorded as absent and not voting. Any members present at the 

3933 
-4-
meeting at which the Order and Statement on an application are considered 
may comment thereon, but no votes with respect to action on the applica-
tion will be cast at that timej provided that any member who participated 
in the Board's action may alter his vote at any time prior to approval 
of the Order and Statement if such alteration does not result in a 
change in the Board's decision. If an alteration of a Board member's 
vote would result in a change of the Board's decision, the Board may 
determine to reconsider the case in accordance with Paragraph 5 hereof. 
If the Board's action on an application should be reconsidered by the 
Board, either before or after "issuance of the Board's Order, participa-
tion in such reconsideration and voting by Board members will not be 
limited to those members who participated in the previous action, but 
will be limited to those present at the
k
reconsideration. The Secretary 
will endeavor to schedule cases that seem particularly close or contro-
versial for consideration at meetings of the Board at which six or seven 
Board members are expected to be present, unless such scheduling will 
result in unreasonable delay. 
7. Release of views submitted to the Board. - The Board will 
not make available to the applicant or any other person any views sub-
mitted to the Board with respect to an application, except as required 
by law, or except as such views may be introduced in the record of any 
formal public hearing ordered by the Board, or except as the person 
submitting such views may have authorized their release to the public 
or to the applicant or other person requesting access thereto. 

3934 
-5-
8. Reports on competitive factors. - (a) Notwithstanding the 
provisions of Paragraph 7 hereof, copies of reports on competitive 
factors to the Board from the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Department of Justice will be 
forwarded promptly by the Board upon receipt thereof to the applicant 
with respect to whose application the reports relate and to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of the district; and copies of any such reports will be 
supplied by the Board also to anyone upon request. 
(b) Copies of reports on competitive factors trjr the Board to 
the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation will be supplied by the Board to anyone upon request fol-
lowing the submittal of the report by the Board to the agency that 
requested the report. 
