Minutes for January 26, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary-
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office,, Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

279 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 26, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 2/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mrs. Heller and Messrs. Via, Forrestal, and 
Cloth of the Legal Division 
Mrs. Helprin of the Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Lyon, Pounds tone, and Goodfellow of 
the Division of Examinations 
Approved letters. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item numbers indicated, were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background material that had been 
made available to the Board: 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
2/ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

280 
1/26/67 
-22-
Item No. 
Letter to Bankers Trust Company, New York, 
1 
New York, granting an extension of time to 
establish a branch in Bronx County. 
Letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
2 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, 
granting permission to establish three additional 
branches in Chile (in Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, 
and Melipilla) in connection with the acquisition 
of assets and assumption of liabilities of Banco 
Italiano S.A., which would be converted into a 
branch of the bank in Santiago. 
Letter to Rogers, Clark & Jordan, San Francisco, 
3 
California, regarding the status of Barclays 
Bank Limited under the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956, as amended. 
Gold loan to Costa Rica (Item No. 4). There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum from Mr. Sammons dated January 24, 1967, stating that 
the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had 
authorized, subject to the approval of the Board of Governors, a $2 mil-
lion loan to the Central Bank of Costa Rica for a period of three months, 
to be secured by gold held for the account of Costa Rica in the vaults 
of the New York Reserve Bank. The memorandum discussed a number of 
problems presented by the request of Costa Rica for this loan, but con-
cluded that the loan should be extended. Attached to the memorandum 
was a draft of telegram to the New York Reserve Bank approving the loan 
in question, with the caveat that no renewal at the expiration of the 
90-day term would be considered. 
Mr. Sammons outlined certain of the problems involved and com-
mented that the requested extension of credit was not of the seasonal 

1/26/67 
-3-
type contemplated by the System's guidelines applicable to gold collat-
eral loans. However, departures from the guidelines had occurred on 
some occasions in the past, and the granting of this particular request 
would assist Costa Rica in putting its internal affairs in order. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he felt the proposed loan should 
be approved. However, he was unhappy about the matter. If he had been 
a member of the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and 
Financial Policies not associated with the "action" agency, he would 
have registered an objection. He was distressed that the Department of 
State had, in effect, asked the Board to approve the loan on political 
grounds, for that abrogated the basic approach to gold collateral loans. 
The loan was thereupon approved unanimously, subject to the 
reservation that no extension beyond the 90-day period requested would 
be considered. A copy of the telegram advising the New York Reserve 
Bank of this action is attached as Item No. 4. 
Mrs. Helprin then withdrew from the meeting. 
Application of Virgin Islands National Bank (Items 5-6). At its 
meeting on January 18, 1967, the Board had considered an application by 
the Virgin Islands National Bank, Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, Virgin 
Islands (an "agreement" corporation wholly owned by a Philadelphia 
member bank), for permission to establish a branch in the Hato Rey sec-
tion of San Juan, Puerto Rico. The Secretary of the Treasury of the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico had, in response to an inquiry from the 

1/26/67 
-4-
Board, objected to establishment of the proposed branch, and the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York had recommended that his view on the matter be 
respected. 
Before the Board at that time had been a distributed memorandum 
dated January 10 from the Division of Examinations, wherein the follow-
ing alternatives were suggested: 
The Board has final legal authority to approve or deny 
the establishment of branches of national banks in Puerto 
Rico. Should the Board approve the present application, the 
proposed branch could be established notwithstanding the 
objections of the Puerto Rican authorities. The question 
arises, however, whether the Board as a matter of policy 
would wish to override the objections of those authorities, 
given the fact that those authorities are probably the most 
competent to assess the banking needs of the Commonwealth of 
Puerto Rico. 
If the Board did not wish to override those objections, 
the application could be denied on the grounds that the area 
of the proposed branch appears to be adequately served by 
banking facilities at the present time and leave open the 
possibility of reconsideration at a later date. 
Alternatively, the Board could write again to the Secre-
tary of the Treasury requesting additional information on the 
banking situation in the area and on the likely competitive 
impact of the proposed branch on neighboring banking offices. 
During discussion at the January 18 meeting, Mr. Sammons had 
observed that the constitutional arrangements in effect between the 
United States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico appeared to be based 
on the premise that matters internal to Puerto Rico should be left to 
the Puerto Rican authorities to decide, and expressed the hope that the 
Board would take account of the views of the Puerto Rican Government in 

283 
1/26/67 
-22-
this case. In light of this recommendation, the matter had been deferred 
pending preparation of a memorandum by Mr. Sammons setting forth his 
views more fully. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated January 25 
from the International Finance and Legal Divisions, in which the polit-
ical and legal relationship between the United States and Puerto Rico 
was discussed, and the following conclusions were stated: 
The legal considerations enumerated above warrant the 
conclusion that the Board should in all cases affecting 
Puerto Rico give important weight to the views of the Puerto 
Rican authorities unless those views are patently unreason-
able and capricious. This has been the case in past situa-
tions before the Board in connection with the establishment 
of branches and the discontinuance of a mobile branch unit 
by a U.S. bank in Puerto Rico, and it is our view that this 
policy should be continued. It is our view also that in the 
present case the Board would be warranted if it were to reject 
the application on the grounds that, as the record before it 
shows, no present need appears to exist for a new branch at 
the proposed location in Puerto Rico. 
On the other hand, on purely banking grounds, while no 
need for an additional banking office has been clearly demon-
strated, there is no evidence that the interests of Puerto 
Rico or of the existing banks would be adversely affected to 
any significant extent by the establishment of the proposed 
branch. Moreover, denial of the application could be consid-
ered inequitable to the applicant in view of the fact that 
two mainland national banks have been allowed to establish 
branches in both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. 
If the Board agrees that the present application should 
be denied, there is, of course, nothing to prevent the appli-
cant from searching out another location where banking services 
may be needed and resubmitting its application. In order to 
obviate the necessity of facing this issue a second time, the 
Board in its letter to the applicant could point out that the 
views of the Puerto Rican authorities were afforded consider-
able weight in deciding this case. The Board might also wish 

284 
1/26/61 
-6-
to consider publicizing a policy that the views of the Puerto 
Rican Treasury will be given considerable attention in pass-
ing on applications for the establishment of branches in 
Puerto Rico. 
Following a summary statement on the salient points in the 
memorandum by Mr. Sammons, Governor Maisel referred to the Board's 
policy of deferring action on domestic branch applications until the 
State supervisory authorities had acted and expressed the view that the 
same procedure should be followed in the case of Puerto Rico. He sug-
gested, however, that the applicant might be advised to seek a hearing 
in Puerto Rico at which the reasons for objection by the Secretary of 
the Treasury could be explored. 
Governor Brimmer stated that in his view the Board had a statu-
tory responsibility to exercise its own best judgment in passing on 
applications of this kind. While the views of the local authorities 
were entitled to consideration, they should not be substituted for the 
Board's obligation to make its own evaluation. In his opinion the 
Puerto Rican banking laws should not be regarded as paramount to the 
Board's statutory authority. 
Mr. Shay observed that the question of law involved was a 
difficult one. He agreed that the Board should not simply concede the 
supremacy of Puerto Rican law and abrogate its responsibility, although 
in a court test it might be judicially determined that local approval 
was necessary for the establishment of a branch in Puerto Rico. It had 
been the practice of the Board over the years to obtain the views of the 

285 
1/26/67 
-22-
Puerto Rican Government, and he felt the Board would be on sound 
ground to continue that procedure. Further, if a decision of denial 
was reached, it would not seem inappropriate to state as part of the 
rationale that the views of the Puerto Rican Government had been taken 
into account. 
Governor Mitchell said he felt it important to exhibit an atti-
tude of being willing to listen to the local authorities. At the same 
time, however, he would emphasize the close ties between Puerto Rico 
and the United States and the desirability that the Puerto Rican banking 
system be compatible with that of the United States and subject to the 
same principles and standards. 
Mr. Sammons commented that from a purely economic standpoint 
establishment of the proposed branch would appear to him to be in the 
best interests of both Puerto Rico and the United States. However, 
there was a sensitive issue involved, arising out of the strong feelings 
in Puerto Rico and Latin America generally about colonialism and a belief 
in some quarters that, notwithstanding the grant of commonwealth status, 
Puerto Rico was still treated as more or less a colony of the United 
States. If the will of U.S. authorities was imposed upon the Puerto 
Rican authorities unnecessarily, that feeling could be strengthened. 
Chairman Martin stated that in his opinion the benefit in terms 
of the public interest was not sufficiently clear in this case to jus-
tify joining the issue. 

286 
1/26/67 
-22-
Governor Brimmer expressed the opinion that the Board should 
confine its attention to the banking factors involved and that the 
record before the Board did not adequately analyze the competitive sit-
uation in the area surrounding the proposed branch location. He felt 
more information was needed on that point. 
Governors Mitchell and Maisel agreed that further information 
to supplement the record along those lines would be desirable before 
acting on the application. They added, however, that it seemed impor-
tant to retain the good will of the Puerto Rican authorities. Governor 
Maisel repeated his earlier suggestion that the applicant be encouraged 
to seek an audience with the Secretary of the Treasury for discussion 
of the banking factors, with indication that the Board would give con-
siderable weight to whatever record was built up locally in that manner. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would deny the request at this 
time on the basis that the facts of record did not show such a clear-cut 
need for the branch as to justify approving its establishment in the face 
of objection by the Commonwealth Treasury Secretary. If the applicant 
chose to pursue the matter further with that official and any additional 
facts were developed such as to change the Secretary's view or to throw 
more light on the competitive factors involved, the matter could be 
resubmitted to the Board. He felt that in cases of this kind the burden 
of proof should be on the applicant to establish the need. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the Board might find it helpful 
to send a staff member to Puerto Rico to ascertain from the Commonwealth 

287 
1/26/67 
-22-
Treasury Secretary the complete reasoning behind his opposition to the 
proposed branch, and then to provide an evaluation for the Board. 
Chairman Martin commented that, apart from this particular case, 
it would seem a good idea to establish better liaison with the Puerto 
Rican authorities for the exchange of information and views on banking 
matters in Puerto Rico. He suggested that Governor Mitchell discuss 
with Mr. Sammons how best that might be done. 
With further reference to the specific application, Governor 
Robertson suggested that the Secretary of the Treasury might be asked 
to amplify his statement on the need, or lack of need, for the proposed 
branch. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he would concur in such a pro-
cedure if specific questions were addressed to the Secretary so as to 
produce a substantive reply. On the basis of the record developed thus 
far, he found no convincing reason why the branch application should be 
denied. 
Mr. Sammons commented that he thought the basic objective of 
Virgin Islands National Bank was to establish a branch somewhere in 
Puerto Rico. Eventually they were likely to find some location where 
it would be difficult to say that no need for additional banking facil-
ities existed. But the Puerto Rican authorities evidently were reluctant 
to have another outside bank begin operations in Puerto Rico. The Sec-
retary's letter already on file seemed fairly clear on that score. 

288 
1/26/67 
-22-
Governor Mitchell observed that it was frustrating to try to 
deal with the general problem in the absence of more knowledge than the 
Board now had available. It would seem desirable to sit down with the 
Secretary, give him the Board's point of view regarding banking competi-
tion, and then let the Secretary appraise the Puerto Rican problem. 
After further discussion of possible alternative procedures for 
establishing a better record as a basis for a decision on the applica-
tion of Virgin Islands National Bank, it was agreed to request additional 
information from the Secretary of the Treasury along the lines previously 
suggested. A copy of the letter sent to the Secretary is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
It was also agreed to inform the applicant, which had made 
several inquiries, that the Board's decision was being delayed pending 
a further check with the Puerto Rican authorities and that if the appli-
cant wished to submit any further information in the meantime the Board 
would be glad to receive it. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 6• 
Messrs. Dahl, Poundstone, and Goodfellow then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
Application of First at Orlando Corporation (Items 7-9). There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated January 25, 
1967, submitting a proposed order and statement reflecting the Board's 
action on December 21, 1966, approving the application of First at Orlando 

289 
1/26/67 
-22-
Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of each of 
five banks. Also attached was a draft of dissenting statement by 
Governors Robertson and Maisel. 
Following adoption of a change suggested by Governor Mitchell 
in the majority statement, issuance of the order and statement was 
authorized. Copies of the documents as issued are attached as Items 7 
and 8, respectively; the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson 
and Maisel is attached as Item No. 9. 
Application of Savings & Trust Company of Indiana (Items 10-11). 
There had been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
January 25, 1967, submitting a proposed order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on January 17 of the application of The Savings & 
Trust Company of Indiana, Indiana, Pennsylvania, to merge The First 
National Bank of Saltsburg, Saltsburg, Pennsylvania. 
Issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies of 
the documents as issued are attached as Items 10 and 11, respectively. 
Governor Shepardson joined the meeting at this point, and Messrs. 
Shay, Sammons, Egertson, Lyon, Forrestal, Via, and Cloth withdrew, as 
did Mrs. Heller. Governor Shepardson subsequently indicated that he 
concurred in the actions previously taken. 
Litigation over underwriting of revenue bonds (Item No. 12). 
On December 14, 1966, the United States District Court for the District 

290 
1/26/67 
-22-
of Columbia rendered an opinion in the case of Baker, Watts & Co. v. 
Saxon holding, in effect, that the Comptroller of the Currency had erred 
in departing from the long-standing interpretation of section 5136, 
Revised Statutes of the United States, that the term "general obliga-
tions of any State or of any political subdivision thereof" refers only 
to securities as to which the payment of principal and interest is guar-
anteed by the general taxing power of the issuing authority. The effect 
of the decision was, therefore, to declare that national banks could not 
underwrite or deal in debt obligations that did not meet the test embodied 
in such an interpretation of the statute. 
The Department of Justice, which had represented the Comptroller 
in this litigation, was now in the process of determining whether to 
appeal the District Court's decision, and in this connection had, in a 
letter of January 18, 1967, requested the Board's views with respect to 
the following questions: 
1. Whether the Board desires to express any view either 
in favor of or against the prosecution of an appeal on behalf 
of the Comptroller, and if it does, what is the Board's view; 
2. Whether the Board has any position on the question 
of the plaintiff's standing; 
3. Does the Board adhere to the construction of the 
statute set forth in its amicus brief filed in the district 
court; 
4. Whether, apart from the issue of statutory construc-
tion, the Board has changed its previous position that, as a 
policy matter, commercial banks should not be permitted to 
underwrite so-called "revenue bonds"; and 

291 
1/26/67 
-22-
5. Assuming that an appeal is taken and that the ques-
tion of statutory construction is raised, whether the Board 
would desire to have the Department of Justice present to the 
court of appeals the Board's position as well as the Comptrol-
ler's, or whether the Board would be just as satisfied to have 
the Department present the Comptroller's position only. 
There had now been distributed a draft response dated January 24, 
prepared by the Legal Division, in which it was stated that the Board: 
(1) believed the District Court had reached the correct statutory inter-
pretation, and therefore would not recommend appeal, (2) had no position 
on the question whether the plaintiffs had standing to sue, (3) felt 
that it would be inappropriate to inject into any appeal that might be 
pursued the question whether, apart from construction of the existing 
statute, the Board felt Federal legislation should be enacted allowing 
banks to underwrite revenue bonds, and (4) urged the Department to pre-
sent both the Comptroller's position and that of the Board with equal 
emphasis and favor, but only if the Department itself could not decide 
which was correct. 
In discussion of the draft letter Governor Brimmer called atten-
tion to a paragraph in which it was stated that there had been no change 
in the Board's policy position as expressed in its Annual Report for the 
year 1965, and that since publication of that report the Board had not 
had occasion to re-examine the policy question. Governor Brimmer sug-
gested that those sentences be stricken, since he questioned whether it 
was correct to say that the Board had not had occasion to re-examine the 

292 
1/26/67 
-22-
policy question, when actually the Board had discussed it recently and 
decided to lay it aside for consideration at a later date. 
Mr. Hexter expressed the view that if the Justice Department 
was told that the Board was likely to support legislation to permit the 
underwriting of revenue bonds by commercial banks and felt that such a 
move would be desirable as a matter of policy, the Department might con-
clude that there was less reason to appeal the decision. However, Mr. 
Hexter felt that a failure to respond to that specific question from 
the Department would be appropriate. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he had no strong feeling whether 
language dealing with the policy question should be included or not. He 
noted that the Board had to be honest with the Justice Department and 
that, if the policy question came up, there was some reason to feel that 
there would be a change in the Board's policy position. 
Governor Robertson observed that the commercial bankers would 
like to have some statement indicating a change in the Board's policy 
position on the theory that the Appellate Court would then be more likely 
to construe the law in favor of the position of the commercial bankers. 
In his view it would be preferable to omit any statement in that regard. 
He noted that it had no bearing on the legality of the position that the 
Board had taken with respect to interpretation of the present law. 
Governor Robertson then turned to the portion of the draft 
letter that would indicate that the Board was not concerned with the 

293 
1/26/67 
-15-
"standing to sue" question and was not in a position to advise whether 
an appeal on that ground from the District Court's decision would be 
appropriate. Governor Robertson expressed the view that any appeal 
should be considered on the merits rather than on the basis of a pro-
cedural issue, and that the Board should express such an opinion to the 
Department. 
Mr. Hexter commented that the question whether persons indirectly 
affected by Congressional legislation had the right to come to the Fed-
eral courts and test the powers of Government officials was important 
from the standpoint of the Justice Department, for if such parties had 
standing to sue the amount of litigation in Federal courts could be 
multiplied. 
Governor Robertson replied that he would have no objection to 
the Department's making its own decision. However, he felt that the 
Board, when its advice was requested, should express the opinion that 
the case should be considered on its merits. 
After further discussion of this point, Mr. O'Connell suggested 
that the letter might first express concern about the merits of the case 
and state that this was the aspect of principal concern to the Board; 
that on the question of "standing to sue" the Board was without knowledge 
of the considerations that might influence the Justice Department. 
Governor Robertson said that such language would be satisfactory 
to him. He then turned to the final portion of the draft letter, which 

294 
1/26/67 
-22-
suggested that Justice urge the Court of Appeals to adopt the inter-
pretation of the crucial statutory provisions that the Department now 
regarded as correct; and that only if the Department was unable to reach 
a conclusion as to which of the two constituted the correct interpreta-
tion of the statutory provisions would it seem appropriate to present 
the two opposing arguments, with equal emphasis and favor, in order to 
assist the Court of Appeals in deciding the case. In Governor Robertson's 
view the letter should state that in the event the Department decided to 
present the Comptroller's view the Board's views should also be presented, 
either by the Board or the Department. In the District Court, he noted, 
both positions were presented. 
Mr. O'Connell then suggested that the letter urge that the 
Department present the Board's interpretation of the statute but, if 
the Department felt it could not do so, urge that the Department present 
the two opposing arguments with equal emphasis. 
Governor Robertson said he would state that, assuming an appeal 
was taken and the question of statutory construction was raised, the 
Board would desire to have its position, as well as that of the Comp-
troller, presented to the court. 
Governor Brimmer said he would hope that the Department would 
present the views of the Board alone. However, if the Department felt 
it could not do that, he would ask the Department to present both posi-
tions . 

295 
1/26/67 
-22-
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the 
draft letter would be revised in accordance with the suggestions that 
had been made. Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter 
in the form attached as Item No. 12. 
During the course of the foregoing discussion Chairman Martin 
withdrew from the meeting to keep a previously-scheduled appointment. 
Mr. Hexter withdrew from the meeting at the conclusion of the discus-
sion. 
Bank of Dublin matter (Item No. 13). By order dated April 12, 
1965, the Board approved an application under the Bank Holding Company 
Act by The First Virginia Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, for permis-
sion to acquire shares of Peoples Bank of Radford, Radford, Virginia, a 
nonmember insured State bank. 
On or about April 26, 1965, it became known to Federal and State 
supervisory authorities that assets in excess of $700,000 on the books 
of Bank of Dublin, Incorporated, Dublin, Virginia, were worthless, being 
largely based upon fraudulent notes, collateral paper, and other docu-
ments. These loans represented more than one-third of the total loans 
of Bank of Dublin, and in order to prevent the bank's closing the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Richmond and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion approached First Virginia Corporation with a proposal for merger 
between Peoples Bank of Radford and Bank of Dublin, pending consummation 
of which First Virginia Corporation would protect the solvency of Bank 

296 
1/26/67 
-22-
of Dublin by depositing $730,000 for that bank's account with Peoples 
Bank of Radford. The proposal was accepted by First Virginia Corpora-
tion, and the deposit of funds made. 
On or about June 28, 1965, acquisition of shares of Peoples 
Bank of Radford by First Virginia Corporation was consummated and the 
bank assumed the status of a subsidiary of the holding company. On or 
about July 1 the proposed merger between Peoples Bank of Radford and 
Bank of Dublin was consummated, pursuant to prior approval of the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Corporation under the emergency provisions of the 
Bank Merger Act, with the charter of the former and the new title Bank 
of New River Valley. 
Thereafter, First Virginia Corporation, on behalf of its sub-
sidiary Bank of New River Valley, commenced preparation of a claim under 
the bankers blanket bond that had been issued to Bank of Dublin by 
Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland. In this 
connection, First Virginia Corporation submitted a request to the Board 
for access to the confidential sections of reports of examination of 
Bank of Dublin as of January 25 and May 3, 1965, and also any other 
materials or documents that might support its claim. A search of the 
Board's files incident to this request had indicated that two particular 
documents might be useful to First Virginia Corporation's purpose; the 
first (notes of a meeting on May 1, 1965, among representatives of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Richmond Reserve Bank, and 

297 
1/26/61 
-19-
Bank of Dublin) had been prepared by the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration and the second by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The 
staff of the Corporation had advised informally that there would be no 
objection to the Board making a copy of the first document available 
for inspection by First Virginia Corporation; the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, however, had asked that its authorization for inspection 
of the second document (which was subsequently denied) be requested in 
writing. 
At its meeting on October 4, 1965, the Board authorized repre-
sentatives of First Virginia Corporation to read, at the Board's offices, 
the confidential sections of the requested reports of examination and 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation document. 
Following submission of the claim to the bonding company, 
counsel for the company submitted a request to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond, dated March 17, 1966, for permission to inspect the reports 
of examination of Bank of Dublin as of April 2, 1962, February 11, 1963, 
May 30, 1964, and January 25, 1965, as well as "other documents" relat-
ing to Bank of Dublin and its successor, Bank of New River Valley. This 
request was forwarded to the Board, and by letter of April 13, 1966, the 
Richmond Reserve Bank was authorized to allow the bonding company's 
counsel access to the open sections of the first three reports of exam-
ination cited, the open and confidential sections of the fourth, and the 
notes of the May 1, 1965, meeting among representatives of the Federal 

298 
1/26/67 
-22-
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Richmond Reserve Bank, and Bank of 
Dublin. 
On April 22, 1966, the Richmond Reserve Bank forwarded to the 
Board a letter from the bonding company's counsel requesting access to 
the open and confidential sections of the May 3, 1965, report of exami-
nation of Bank of Dublin and to documents related thereto, including 
examiners' work papers. Under date of June 21, 1966, the Richmond 
Reserve Bank was authorized to comply with the request, and certain 
further authorizations relative to compliance with a subpoena obtained 
by counsel for the plaintiff were given by the Board on November 4, 1966. 
Mr. O'Connell now reported that trial of the suit was scheduled 
to commence on January 30, 1967, and counsel for First Virginia Corpora-
tion had caused a subpoena to be issued for the production of the reports 
of examination that had previously been made available for inspection, 
as well as two reports antedating these, and related work papers; notes 
of the conference held on May 1, 1965, between representatives of the 
Richmond Reserve Bank, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and 
Bank of Dublin; and correspondence and other written materials exchanged 
between the Richmond Reserve Bank and Bank of Dublin in the period 1960-
1965. Subpoenas had also been secured by counsel for First Virginia 
Corporation requiring attendance of Vice President Nosker and Messrs. 
Edward Bennett, Chester D. Porter, Jr., and John Beducian of the Richmond 
Reserve Bank's examining staff at the trial for purposes of testifying. 

299 
1/26/67 
-22-
In addition, counsel for the bonding company had stated his 
intention to subpoena the reports of examination of June 17, 1957, and 
January 25, 1965, and a memorandum of a meeting between Vice President 
Nosker and representatives of Bank of Dublin on April 5, 1965. He had 
further indicated a desire to interview Messrs. Porter and Beducian 
and an intention to subpoena Messrs. Nosker and Bennett and probably 
Mr. Porter as witnesses. 
Mr. O'Connell noted that compliance with the subpoenas would 
undoubtedly mean that the examination reports would be introduced in 
evidence and made the basis of direct and cross examination of witnesses, 
since the circumstances surrounding the operation of Bank of Dublin were 
critical to the points at issue in this case. However, counsel for the 
parties concerned had expressed willingness to have the confidential 
material introduced into evidence, or about which testimony was taken, 
sealed by the court following the trial. In the circumstances, Mr. 
O'Connell believed the Board would be warranted in authorizing compli-
ance with the subpoenas. 
Compliance was authorized unanimously. A copy of the letter so 
advising the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond is attached as Item No. 13. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to Bank of America National Trust and Sav-
ings Association, San Francisco, California, 
acknowledging receipt of notice of its intent 
to establish an additional branch in Honduras, 

300 
1/26/67 
-22-
to be located in San Pedro Sula. The letter 
noted that concurrent to the opening of the 
new branch the bank intended to increase the 
capital of its Tegucigalpa Branch by $500,000, 
to a total of $1,500,000. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (copy attached as 
Item No. 14) approving the appointment of Bernard E. Smith as assistant 
examiner. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
January 25, 1967, requesting authorization (1) to absorb in the bud-
get of that Division charges of no more than $400 in connection with 
the Staff Economic Seminars, with the understanding that transporta-
tion expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence would be paid, when 
required, in accordance with the Board's travel regulations; and (2) 
to pay an honorarium of $100 to Professor Henry Goldstein of Washing-
ton State University as the speaker at the first of the Staff Economic 
Seminars this year. 
Permission to engage in outside activities 
Marguerite Hudgins, Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, to act as a tour guide on a part-time basis. 
to 
Helmut F. Wendel, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
teach a course in Mathematical Economics at Howard University. 

301 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 1 
OF THE 
1/26/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
S ! 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 2055! 
f : 
A O D N I H OrriCIAL CORRCaPONOKNCC 
•* 
TO THK BOARD 
January 26, 1967 
Board of Directors/ 
Bankers Trust Company, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to Hay 17, 1967, the time within which 
Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York, may establish 
a branch on the northeast corner of the intersection 
of West 235th Street and Johnson Avenue, Bronx County, 
New York, New York. The establishment of this branch 
was authorized in a letter dated August 17, 1965. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

302 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
item No. 2 
• F THE 
1/26/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 26, 1967. 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of December 29, 1966, 
regarding the Board's letter of February 23, 1966, which granted 
permission to your bank to establish a branch in the City of 
Santiago, Chile, provided such branch was established and opened 
for business on or before March 1, 1967. 
It is understood that you have entered into negotiations 
with the principal stockholders of Banco Italiano S.A., Santiago, 
for the purchase of the net assets and liabilities of that bank 
which will be converted into a branch of your bank in Santiago and 
that Banco Italiano will enter into liquidation. It is further 
understood that Banco Italiano operates three branches in Chile, 
located in Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, and Melipilla, which will 
become branches of your bank. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, the Board of Governors grants its permission to Bank 
of America National Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco, 
to establish three additional branches in Chile to be located in 
Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, and Melipilla, respectively, and to operate 
and maintain such branches subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation M. 
It is assumed the branches are to be established concur-
rently with the establishment of your branch in Santiago. Accord-
ingly, unless the branches are actually established and opened for 
business on or before March 1, 1967, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
303 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
- 2 -
The foregoing authorization by the Board of Governors is 
made without reference to any consent by the Federal Deposit In-
surance Corporation that may be required under the provisions of 
Section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the 
form of allocated capital, advances or otherwise) should be regarded 
as foreign assets for purposes of the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint effort. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branches are opened for 
business, furnishing information as to the exact locations of the 
branches. The Board should also be promptly informed of any future 
change in location of the branches within the cities of Valparaiso, 
Vina del Mar, and Melipilla, respectively. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

:$28 
c 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 12 
1/26/67 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 26, 1967. 
Webster V. Clark, Esq., 
Rogers, Clark & Jordan, 
111 Sutter Street, 
San Francisco 4, California. 
Re: Barclays Bank Limited: 
Proposed Registration under Bank Holding 
Company Act as Amended July 1, 1966. 
Dear Mr. Clark: 
This refers to your letter dated December 1, 1966, 
which was forwarded by the San Francisco Reserve Bank to the 
Board for a ruling with respect to the impact of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 as amended in 1966 (the "Act") 
upon Barclays Bank of California and its parent companies, 
Barclays Bank Limited and Barclays Bank D.C.O. 
The facts presented show that Barclays Bank Limited, 
an English corporation that operates a direct banking business 
in England, owns "substantially 25 per cent" of the stock of 
Barclays Bank of California; the remaining 75 per cent is owned 
by Barclays Bank D.C.O., an English corporation with branches 
or subsidiaries throughout the world; the majority of the 
shares of Barclays Bank D.C.O. is owned by Barclays Bank Limited; 
and a branch of Barclays Bank D.C.O. conducts a banking business 
in New York City at two offices where deposits are accepted 
"that the depositor has a legal right to withdraw on demand." 
As you correctly state, the 1966 amendments to the 
Act have changed the definition of "bank" to include "any 
institution that accepts deposits that the depositor has a legal 
right to withdraw on demand". By virtue of this definition and 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
3f)5 
Webster V. Clark, Esq. 
-2-
through the operation of its New York branch, Barclays Bank 
D.C.O. qualifies as a "bank" under the Act. On the basis 
of the facts presented, the Board finds that Barclays Bank 
Limited qualifies as a bank holding company under the Act, 
by virtue of its control, directly or indirectly, of 25 per cent 
or more of the stock of (1) Barclays Bank of California and 
(2) Barclays Bank D.C.O. It appears that Barclays Bank D.C.O. 
controls 25 per cent or more of the stock of only one bank, 
namely, Barclays Bank of California, and on this basis, would 
not qualify as a bank holding company. 
It is our understanding that the San Francisco 
Reserve Bank has already advised you that the Board has granted 
your request for an extension of time, to and including 
March 31, 1967, for the filing of a bank holding company regis-
tration statement on behalf of any of the above-mentioned 
companies, and has indicated that data with respect to foreign 
subsidiaries and offices that do not do business within the 
United States may be presented in summary form. If you have any 
questions with respect to such summary presentations, or other 
aspects of the registration statement, please feel free to 
consult with the staff of the San Francisco Reserve Bank or with 
Mr. Frederic Solomon of the Board's staff in Washington. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

380 
T E L E G R A M 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
January 26, 1967. 
WAAGE - NEW YORK 
Board approves granting of loan or loans on gold up 
to a total of $2 million by the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York to the Central Bank of Costa Rica on terms described in 
your wire of January 19, 1967. In addition to informing the 
Central Bank of Costa Rica of Board's reasons for approving 
this loan as described in your wire, Board requests that you 
inform them that no renewal at the.expiration date of the 
90-day term will be considered. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 
Item No. 13 
1/26/67 

:$28 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
1/26/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 27, 1967. 
The Honorable Jorge Font Saldana, 
Secretary of the Treasury, 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
Box 4515, 
San Juan, Puerto Rico. 00905 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
Reference is made to your letter of November 22, 1966, in 
reply to the Board's earlier request for your views regarding an 
application from Virgin Islands National Bank for permission to es-
tablish a branch in El Monte Shopping Center, Munoz Rivera Avenue, 
Hato Rey, San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
The Board has carefully noted your objection to the pro-
posed branch and your opinion that there is no need for more banking 
facilities in the area. The Board has also taken note of your view 
that Puerto Rico has a well balanced banking system and that the 
establishment of a new national bank could destroy the existing 
desirable banking balance which you like to maintain in the island. 
Information presently available to the Board with respect 
to the banking situation indicates that: (1) the proposed branch, 
if established, would be among the smallest banks in Puerto Rico 
and its deposits (based on the deposit projections of the applicant) 
would amount to perhaps 0.5 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
in the Commonwealth; (2) while the area in which the proposed branch 
is to be located is now served by a number of banking offices, the 
area is reportedly among the fastest growing in San Juan and the 
nearest banking office is at least one-half mile away; (3) with two 
exceptions all of the banking facilities located within a 1 to 1-1/2 
mile radius from the site of the proposed branch are offices of the 
largest banks in Puerto Rico. 
The Board believes that present information is insufficient 
to enable it to arrive at an appropriate decision on the application. 

The Honorable Jorge Font Saldana 
-2 
308 
In the circumstances and to assist the Board in reaching a conclusion 
on the matter., it would be very helpful if you were to aiaplify your 
views on the adequacy of banking facilities and services in the area 
and in Puerto Rico in general. More specifically, the Board would 
appreciate your furnishing additional information on the likely 
competitive impact of the proposed branch. The Board would be grate-
ful if the information could be furnished as soon as possible so 
that it might take final action on the application at an early date. 
The Board of Governors has asked me to convey its appre-
ciation for your cooperation in exchanging views with the Board 
regarding this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

309 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 6 
.^OVgoVa-. 
O F T H E 
1/26/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
' ^ f ^ ^ ^ ^ P l ^ * 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
m i i i i n W -
. • ^ M I I P ^ i ^ / ^ * 
A D D R E S S 
O R R I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
*" 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 27, 1967. 
Virgin Islands National Bank, 
Charlotte Araalie, St. Thomas, 
Virgin Islands. 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of September 21, 1966, 
requesting permission of the Board of Governors for the Virgin 
Islands National Bank to establish a branch in the El Monte Shopping 
Center, Munoz Rivera Avenue, Hato Rey, San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
The Board has reviewed the information submitted in sup-
Port of your application. The Board has also considered the views 
of the Department of the Treasury of the Commonwealth of Puerto 
Rico which is not in favor of the establishment of the proposed 
branch. To assist the Board in reaching a conclusion in the matter, 
further information is being requested from the Secretary of the 
Treasury of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico as to the adequacy of 
banking facilities in Puerto Rico and the competitive situation 
among the banks as it is likely to be affected by the proposed branch 
The Board has asked that you be informed of these steps 
and that you be invited to submit such further information as you 
might wish for the Board's consideration in connection with this 
^plication. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

310 
Item No. 7 
1/26/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
' 
Orlando, Florida, 
for approval of action to become a bank ' 
holding company through the acquisition ' 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
' 
shares of five banks in the State of 
Florida. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1), as amended by Public Law 89-485),and section 222.4(a)(1) 
of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)(1)), an application 
by First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, for the Board's 
prior approval of action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of each of the following banks in or near Orlando, Florida* 
i 
The First National Bank at Orlando; College Park National Bank at 
Orlando; South Orlando National Bank; First National Bank at Pine Hills; 
and The Plaza National Bank at Orlando. 

As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice to the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the 
application and requested his views and recommendation. The Comp-
troller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 21, 1966 (31 Federal Register 8607), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a)before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of the Order. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 26th day of January, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action; Governors Shepardson, Mitchell, 
Daane, and Brimmer. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

:$28 
Item No. 12 
1/26/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION OF 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, ORLANDO, FLORIDA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ("the Act"), an application 
for approval of action to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of the following 
banks located in or near Orlando, Florida: The First National Bank at 
Orlando ("Orlando Bank"); College Park National Bank at Orlando 
("College Park Bank"); South Orlando National Bank ("South Orlando 
Bank"). First National Bank at Pine Hills ("Pine Hills Bank"), and 
The Plaza National Bank at Orlando ("Plaza Bank") (collectively referred 
to as "Applicant's Group"). As of December 31, 1965,^ Applicant's 
Proposed subsidiaries had the following deposits: Orlando Bank, $134,5 
million; College Park Bank, $16.4 million; South Orlando Bank, $14.1 
Million; Pine Hills Bank, $7.2 million; and Plaza Bank, $7.5 million. 
Orlando Bank, organized in 1934, is affiliated with each of 
fche four smaller banks proposed to be acquired. Applicant states that 
y Data with respect to banks are as of thia date, unless otherwise 
noted. 

-2-
313 
Orlando Bank sponsored the organization of the four smaller banks to 
provide extended services to Orlando Bank's customers in the suburban 
areas around the City of Orlando. At the time of each bank's organization 
(College Park Bank in 1952, South Orlando Bank and Pine Hills Bank in 
1959, and Plaza Bank in 1962), stockholders of Orlando Bank holding a 
majority of its stock acquired a majority of the shares of stock of each 
new bank. This resulted in an affiliation through common majority share-
holders between Orlando Bank and each of the four smaller banks, an 
affiliation that has been maintained to date. No common shareholder 
affiliation exists between or among the four smaller banks. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would result in the replace-
ment of the present affiliate relationships with a bank holding company 
system. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller 
°f the Currency. The Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly, or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or 

-3-
314 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. 
Competitive effects of proposed transaction. - There are eight 
bank holding companies operating (or approved by the Board to commence 
operations) in the State of Florida. They control approximately 27 per 
cent of the deposits and 17 per cent of the banks. Consummation of 
Applicant's proposal would increase bank holding company control of de-
Posits and banks by approximately 2 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively. 
Applicant would become the sixth largest banking organization in the 
State and would rank fifth among the bank holding companies. The portion 
total deposits in the State controlled by the ten largest bank organis-
ations (five of which are holding companies) would be increased, upon 
consummation of Applicant's proposal, by approximately .5 per cent 
(from 38.4 to 38.9). On a State-wide basis, consummation of Applicant's 
Proposal would not result in such control by Applicant, by holding 
company systems, nor by the ten largest banking organizations as to 
Squire disapproval of the application herein. 

-4-
315 
According to the application, Orlando Bank's primary service 
2/ 
area^' is the central portion of Orange County, and encompasses the 
cities of Orlando, Winter Park, and Maitland, and immediately contiguous 
areas. This area, with a total estimated population of 254,000, con-
stitutes one of the most rapidly growing sections in Florida. Orlando 
Bank is located in downtown Orlando. Each of the four affiliates is 
located within five miles of Orlando Bank, and their respective primary 
service areas fall wholly within that of Orlando Bank. Orlando Bank's 
service area as above described is the relevant area within which to 
determine the competitive impact of this proposal. 
In its primary service area, Orlando Bank, with deposits of 
$135 million, holds approximately 34 per cent of total deposits, 30 per 
cent of IPC deposits, and approximately 32 per cent of gross loans. 
Combined, banks in Applicant's Group control 45 per cent of total deposits, 
43 per cent of IPC deposits, and 42 per cent of gross loans in the primary 
i 
service area. 
Apart from Applicant's five banks, there are 10 banks operating 
and competing in the area. Two registered bank holding companies, Alfred 
duPont Trust (Florida National Group), which controls $771 million of 
deposits, and Barnett Securities Corporation, controlling about $322 
million of deposits, each has a subsidiary bank in the service area of 
Orlando Bank, Applicant states that 19 savings and loan associations, 
2/ 
The area from which Applicant estimates Orlando Bank derives 81 per 
Cent of its deposits of individuals, partnerships, and corporations 
("IPC deposits"). 

316 
-3-
with total accounts of approximately $287 million, are located in the 
area and that no banks located outside said primary service area compete 
significantly within it. 
Applicant's Group controls a substantial portion of the area's 
commercial banking resources. However, in the face of affirmative evidence 
in the record that the affiliation among Applicant's Group of bonks will 
be continued for the reasonably foreseeable future, and the lack of any 
credible evidence that a lessening of present concentration is probable, 
the conclusion is warranted that consummation of Applicant's proposal to 
replace an affiliate relationship with a bank holding company system 
would have no significant effect on existing concentration of banking 
control. It may be noted that consummation of the Applicant's plan would 
subject to prior approval of the Board future proposals to expand Appli-
cant's system through acquisition of additional banking subsidiaries. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of 
Applicant's proposal on existing and potential competition, the Board 
finds that these considerations present no bar to approval of the appli-
cation. In general, the banking needs of the larger businesses in the 
area served by Applicant's Group appear to be satisfied by Orlando Bank 
rather than by its affiliates; the needs of smaller businesses and of 
household customers of the Group's banks apparently are served by both 
Orlando Bank and its affiliates. With respect to the smaller businesses, 
each of the. affiliates apparently serves primarily those located near 
the particular bank. The household customers of the affiliates appear 

317 
-2-
to be dispersed throughout the Orlando area. Applicant states that the 
banks have always been advertised as affiliates, are regarded as such 
by the community, and the affiliate relationship has been relied upon 
by stockholders and customers in their dealings with these banks. The 
record shows that Orlando Bank, after having effected organization of the 
four smaller banks, has contributed manageraaat to, and performed various 
services for them; and that a firmly established close operational 
relationship exists between Orlando Bank and each of the four banks. 
The management of Orlando Bank is to a substantial degree synonymous with 
that of the several affiliated banks, and is represented as having both 
the desire and the capability to retain the affiliation under any reason-
ably foreseeable circumstances. 
The record in this case supports the conclusion that, due to 
the existing affiliation, there is little competition among the banks in 
Applicant's Group. The number of banks serving the area would not be 
diminished by Applicant's proposed acquisition. The Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposal herein will not eliminate any sub-
stantial existing competition among the banks in Applicant's Group nor, 
in view of the likelihood that the existing affiliation will continue, 
will it foreclose any significant future competition. 
With respect to the competitive force of Applicant's Group, 
and particularly of Orlando Bank, in relation to the other banks in the 
service area involved, the record shows that, in 1946, Orlando Bank was 
°ne of three banks and controlled 53 per cent of the deposits in the 

318 
relevant service area; in 1963, as well as at the end of 1965, Orlando 
Bank and its four affiliates controlled 45 per cent of the deposits of 
the area's banks. While each of Orlando Bank's two principal competi-
tors (Citizens National Bank and Florida National Bank) is substantially 
smaller than Orlando Bank, their rates of growth during the years 1962 
through 1965 appear to have been substantially greater than that of 
Orlando Bank, The latter's IPC deposits increased approximately 20 per 
cent in the said period, whereas those of Citizens National Bank increased 
about 27 per cent and those of Florida National Bank, Orlando, increased 
approximately 39 per cent. In addition, in the period since 1951, during 
which Orlando Bank organized the four affiliated banks, five other commer-
cial banks were established in the Orlando area. An examination of the 
facts presented with respect to the banks competing with the four smaller 
banks in Applicant's Group indicates that the formation of Applicant's 
Group did not prevent the growth of existing banks, nor preclude the 
entrance of new banks into the area concerned. It is reasonable to 
conclude from the record that consummation of Applicant's proposal would 
not diminish existing competition in the area concerned, nor preclude 
future competition therein. 
In the light of the foregoing considerations and all the facts 
of record, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed trans-
action would not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any 
combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any relevant area of the State. The Board further 

319 
-2-
finds that consummation of the proposal would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor operate in restraint of trade. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects« -
Applicant has no financial or operating history. However, its pro forma 
financial condition and its future prospects are considered satisfactory 
in the light of the satisfactory condition and prospects of the proposed 
subsidiaries and the fact that the area concerned may be expected to 
experience a continued population growth and economic expansion. 
Applicant's management, composed of directors and officers of 
the Orlando Bank, and including one director of each of the four smaller 
banks, is considered well qualified and experienced. It is reasonable to 
e*pect that the banks will be maintained in a sound financial condition 
under Applicant's control. 
On the basis of the above considerations, the Board concludes 
that the proposed acquisition is consistent with the continued sound 
operation of the banks involved, and that their future prospects are 
favorable. Accordingly, considerations related to the banking factors 
consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - Prospectively, 
c°nsummation of the subject proposal may be expected to accelerate somewhat 
{-V e introduction and use of technological changes in banking accounting in 
th 
e community served. While the record indicates that these communities 
are being served adequately by existing facilities, and that no significant 
cllange in such facilities or services is contemplated by Applicant's bank 

43 
-3-
holding company plan, denial of this application would represent a 
determination that Applicant was to be placed in a corporate nimbus, and 
would undoubtedly deter management from pursuing a trend toward a fully 
integrated automation - accounting service system, a pursuit most appro-
priate in this instance. Applicant's formation on the other hand would 
serve to stabilize the existing affiliations and would undoubtedly lead 
to easier and greater exchange of information and personnel and other 
assistance to the smaller banks. The Board finds such prospective rendition 
b7 Applicant to be consistent with approval. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be consistent with the public interest and that the 
aPplication should be approved, 
January 26, 1967, 

321 
Item No. 9 
1/26/67 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND MAISEL 
The application by First at Orlando asserts that approval 
of its formation as a bank holding company "is most imperative" 
because the ownership by common stockholders of more than 50 per 
cent of the stock of each of the five banks involved "could very 
easily change if a number of individual stockholders were to sell 
their shares", and ". . .it is one of the principal purposes of this 
application to insure that [the existing common ownership] will 
continue to exist". A more clear statement of potential dissolution 
of the existing affiliate relationship could not be made; nor could 
a stronger basis be laid for Board action that would enable growth 
and development of competition between and among the presently 
affiliated banks, the potential for which is evidenced in the record 
of this case. That record reflects a considerable overlap in the 
service areas of the five affiliated banks. The Orlando Bank's 
service area encompasses the entire common service area of the four 
smaller affiliated banks; and each of the five affiliated banks has 
numerous common depositors and borrowers. 
In cur view, proper application to this case of the statu-
tory criteria for decision precludes approval as a matter of law. 
While it appears that competition between and among the affiliated 
banks is presently limited because of their affiliation, the tenuity 
of that affiliation, conceded by Applicant, offers a potential for 
viable competition that should not be foreclosed. Regrettably, the 
Board's action in approving the holding company formation will 

-3-
322 
effectively preclude development of such future competition. An 
additional consideration, viewed in the light of the Act's pro-
visions, that we believe compels denial of this application is the 
extent to which the banking resources in the relevant market area 
are controlled by Applicant's group of banks. At present, 45 per 
cent of the total deposits and 42 per cent of the gross loans held 
by all commercial banks in the Orlando area are controlled by 
Applicant's group of banks; First National Bank at Orlando alone 
controls 34 per cent of such total deposits. 
Board approval of this application is not permitted under 
the Act unless any anticompetitive effect is clearly outweighed in 
the public interest by evidence that the convenience and needs of 
the communities affected will be served by the proposal. The record 
contains no evidence of such countervailing benefits. 
In sum, the existing degree of concentration of banking 
resources in Applicant's banks, the inevitable accretion therein 
following upon consummation of this proposal, and the preclusion of 
substantial potential competition between and among the banks involved 
are considerations so patently adverse to approval as to require, 
absent overweighing considerations, that the application be denied. 
January 26, 1967, 

Item No. 10 
1/26/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C, 
In the Hatter of the Application of 
1 
THE SAVINGS & TRUST COMPANY OF INDIANA 
1 
for approval of acquisition of assets of1 
The First National Bank of Saltsburg 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK'S ASSETS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1828(c), Public Law 89-356), an 
application by The Savings & Trust Company of Indiana, Indiana, 
Pennsylvania, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for 
the Board's prior approval of its acquisition of assets and assumption 
of deposit liabilities of The First National Bank of Saltsburg, Saltsbur 
Pennsylvania, and, as an incident thereto, The Savings & Trust Company o 
Indiana has applied, under section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, for the 
Board's prior approval of the establishment by that bank of a branch at 
the location of the sole office of The First National Bank of Saltsburg* 
Notice of the proposed acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit 
^-labilities, in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant 
to said Act. 

324 
-2-
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed transaction, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said applications be and hereby 
are approved, provided that said acquisition of assets and assumption 
of deposit liabilities and establishment of the branch shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, 
Dated at Washington, D, C,, this 26th day of January, 1967, 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Shepardson, Mitchell, Daane, 
Maisel, and Brimmer, 
(signed) 
Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 
1/26/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE SAVINGS & TRUST COMPANY OF INDIANA 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF SALTSBURG 
STATEMENT 
The Savings & Trust Company of Indiana, Indiana, Pennsylvania 
("Indiana Bank"), with total deposits of about $22 million, has applied, 
pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c), as amended by Public 
Lau 89-356), for the Board's prior approval of its acquisition of assets 
and assumption of deposit liabilities of The First National Bank of 
Saltsburg, Saltsburg, Pennsylvania ("Saltsburg Bank"), which has total 
deposits of about $3 million."' As an incident to the transaction, the 
single office of Saltsburg Bank would become a branch of Indiana Bank, 
increasing the number of its offices to two. 
Competition. - The single office of Indiana Bank is in Indiana 
(population about 13,000), which is the seat of Indiana County and its 
largest municipality. Saltsburg (population about 1,000), the site of 
the sole office of Saltsburg Bank, is 22 miles southwest of Indiana. 
Both communities are in western Pennsylvania, about 60 miles northeast 
°f Pittsburgh. While Indiana's economy is supported mainly by retail 
i/Figures are as of October 7, 1966. 

-2-
326 
trade, industry, and a university, the surrounding area is primarily 
dependent on coal mining. Three small manufacturing plants, a prepara-
tory school, and dairy farms provide employment for wage earners in the 
Saltsburg area. 
There is no significant competition between the two banks. 
Saltsburg Bank derives less than 2 per cent of its deposits and about 
2/ 
4 per cent of its loans from the service area- of Indiana Bank; about 
1 per cent each of Indiana Bank's deposits and loans originates in the 
service area of Saltsburg Bank. Most of this slight loan overlap 
appears to result from loan participations. Fourteen persons (includ-
ing an officer and several directors of Indiana Bank) who own about 
15 per cent of Indiana Bank's capital stock also o\m about 46 per cent 
the capital stock of Saltsburg Bank. Even if this close relation-
ship were terminated, the potential for the development of competition 
between the two banks is limited by the distance and mountainous terrain 
separating their offices; in addition, the development of meaningful 
competition through de novo branching by either bank seems unlikely in 
view of the small size of Saltsburg Bank and of the community it serves. 
The proposed acquisition would not materially affect banking 
competition in the area presently served by Indiana Bank. The bank's 
nearest competitors are the two other Indiana-headquartered banks, which 
have total deposits of about $18 million and $20 million, respectively, 
and a branch of a Homer City-based bank, which has total deposits of 
l/^The area from which a bank derives 75 per cent or more of its deposits 
individuals, partnerships and corporations. 

-3-
327 
about $10 million. Saltsburg Bank's nearest competitor, which is 
located four miles to the north in Avonmore, has deposits of about 
$3 million and draws the preponderance of its business from its own 
community. It does not appear that the Avonmore bank, or any other 
banking office, would be adversely affected by the proposed 
acquisition. 
The effect of the proposed transaction on competition 
Would not be significantly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The banking factors with respect to the subject banks are generally 
satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the resulting institu-
tion. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The principal 
effect of the transaction on banking needs and convenience would be 
in Saltsburg where Saltsburg Bank, in large part because of its small 
size, has been unable to meet local credit needs. The conversion of 
Saltsburg Bank into an office of Indiana Bank would provide for the 
Saltsburg community more convenient access to broader credit 
accommodations and to a generally wider range of banking services. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
Proposed merger would benefit the banking convenience and needs of the 
Saltsburg community, and would not have a significantly adverse effect 
°n banking competition. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
ke approved, 
January 26, 1967. 

:$28 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
1/26/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 26, 1967. 
The Honorable Barefoot Sanders, 
Assistant Attorney General, 
Civil Division, 
United States Department of Justice, 
Washington, D. C. 20530 
Re: BS:MH:JCE 
145-3-789 
Dear Mr. Sanders: 
The following are the Board's responses to the five 
questions presented in your letter of January 18 with respect to 
Baker, Watts & Co. et al. v. James J. Saxon et al. (Civil Action 
No. 97-66, D.C.D.C.). 
i 
1. The Board's participation in this litigation has re-
lated solely to the substantive question - that is, the interpretation 
of the "general obligations" provision of section 5136 of the Revised 
Statutes. In the Board's judgment, the District Court reached the cor-
rect conclusion on that question, and consequently the Board would 
not recommend an appeal aimed at overturning that aspect of the 
judgment of the District Court. 
2. The Board's concern has been with the correctness of 
the interpretation of the "general obligations" provision of section 
5136 of the Revised Statutes; it is without knowledge of the implications 
of the "standing-to-sue" question and, therefore, expresses no opinion 
as to whether an appeal with respect to that aspect of the District 
Court's decision is appropriate. 
3. The Board continues to adhere to the construction of 
the statutory provision that was adopted by the District Court. 
4. The Board has emphasized, throughout its participation 
in this litigation, that the question before the Court is the inter-
pretation of the existing statutory provisions. In the Board's 

829 
-2-
Tlie Honorable Barefoot Sanders 
judgment, it would be inappropriate to inject into this case the 
"policy" question as to whether it would be in the public interest 
for Congress to amend the Federal banking laws to permit underwriting 
of revenue bonds, either generally or subject to specified limitations 
Since this is a matter for legislative decision, views and recommenda-
tions thereon should be addressed to the legislature, and contentions 
as to appropriate legislative policy for the future are not pertinent 
to interpretation of existing statutory provisions. 
5. In the judgment of the Board, the Department of Justice 
should urge the Court of Appeals to affirm the District Court's 
interpretation of the crucial statutory provision. If the Department 
decides not to follow that course, the Board recommends presentation 
of the two opposing arguments, with equal emphasis and favor, in order 
to assist the Court of Appeals to reach the correct conclusion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Howard H. Hackley 
Howard H. Hackley, 
General Counsel. 

380 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 13 
1/26/67 
ADDREBB OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 27, 1967 
Mr. William F. Upshaw, 
Assistant General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Re: Bank of Dublin, Inc., et al. v. Fidelity and 
Deposit Company of Maryland, Civil Action 
No. 4045, E.D. Virginia, Alexandria Division 
Dear Mr. Upshaw: 
This acknowledges your letter of January 18, 1967, with 
reference to the above case, transmitting copies of subpoenas re-
quiring the testimony of officials and employees of your Bank and, 
in connection therewith, the production of specified documents from 
the files of your Bank. We have received also your letter of 
January 19, 1967, enclosing a letter from plaintiff's counsel clari-
fying an earlier-stated position of the coverage he intended the 
above-mentioned subpoenas to have. The subpoenas have been served 
upon Vice President John L. Nosker and Messrs. Edward Bennett, 
Chester D. Porter, Jr., and John Beducian, and call for their appear-
ance in United States District Court for the Eastern District of 
Virginia at 10 a.m. on January 30, 1967, for the purpose of testify-
ing on behalf of plaintiff bank. 
Your January 18 letter refers to conversations had with 
Mr. Henry St.J. FitzGerald, counsel for plaintiff, as a result of 
which certain modifications were effected in an earlier subpoena 
served on Mr. Nosker, the demands of which were identical in nature 
to the four subpoenas under discussion. It is our understanding from 
your letter that the earlier modification, as well as the expansion 
noted in Mr. FitzGerald's letter of January 19, are the agreed subjects 
of the subpoenas as to which you now seek the Board's authorization. 
On the basis of this understanding, the Board authorizes Messrs. Nosker, 
Bennett, Porter, and Beducian to respond to the subpoenas served upon 
them by appearing on January 30 at the time and place designated in 
the subpoenas and, if required, to testify and to produce in connec-
tion with such testimony> to the extent required, the reports of 
examination of the Bank of Dublin prepared with respect to examindfcidhs 

Mr. William F. Upshaw 
- 2 -
331 
of that bank made as of April 18, 1960; January 16, 1961- April 2 
1962; February 11, 1963; March 30, 1964; January 25, 1965; and 
May 3, 1965. Mr. Nosker, or such other of the persons subpoenaed 
as may be designated, is also authorized to produce at trial and 
testify concerning such work papers in your Bank as relate to the 
foregoing reports of examination. The Board further authorizes the 
production, together with any required testimony, of the notes of 
a conference conducted on May 1, 1965, in the Richmond District 
Office of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation attended by 
representatives of the FDIC, your Bank, and the Bank of Dublin. 
Authorization is further granted for the production of correspondence 
and other written materials originated between 1960 and May 1965 
that were exchanged between your Bank and the Bank of Dublin 
As earlier indicated, the foregoing authorizations are 
intended to respond both to the modifications and expansions made 
by plaintiff's counsel in communications with you. Any effort by 
Mr. FitzGerald to exceed the scope of these authorizations or the 
scope of the understandings reached between you should be the subject 
of further communication with the Board. Further, the testimony and 
production above authorized should be made subject to the procedural 
suggestions hereinafter set forth. 
An additional enclosure to your January 18 letter was a 
letter from Mr. John W. Edmonds, III, counsel for defendant. Mr. Edmonds 
states his intention to secure, by subpoena, the testimony of 
Messrs. Nosker and Bennett, and probably Mr. Porter, and to call for 
the production of examination reports of Bank of Dublin dated June 17, 
1957, and January 25, 1965, and a memorandum prepared by Mr. Nosker of 
a conference had with Messrs. Evans and Sadler of the Dublin Bank on 
April 5, 1965. You have further advised Mr. O'Connell of the Board's 
staff of a telephone call from Mr. Edmonds wherein he requested per-
mission to discuss with Mr. Porter and/or Mr. Beducian certain aspects 
of this matter, presumably aimed at a determination as to any need 
Mr. Edmonds may have for the testimony of either or both persons. The 
Board authorizes response to any subpoenas that may be issued in this 
matter at Mr. Edmonds' request that are directed to one or more of the 
four persons named in plaintiff's subpoenas above discussed and that 
are restricted to the reports of examination of Bank of Dublin dated 
June 17, 1957, and January 25, 1965, and to Mr. Nosker's memorandum 
of the April 5, 1965, conference. Subpoena demands beyond the scope 
aforementioned should also be the subject of further communication with 
the Board. 
This will further confirm the Board's authorization given 
to you by telephone on January 26, 1967, by Mr. O'Connell whereby 
Mr. Edmonds was given permission to discuss with either or both 
Mr. Porter and Mr. Beducian certain aspects of this case prior to 
the commencement of trial. 

Mr. William F. Upshaw 
-3-
. ^ 
n a t u r e o f the testimony and documents that have been 
made the subject of the subpoenas discussed is of such a nature as 
to require confidential treatment thereof to the fullest extent con 
sistent with all interests involved. Accordingly, you are urged to" 
take whatever steps appear reasonably calculated to effect an in 
c|me£| treatment of the oral and documentary evidence the disclosure 
of which is herein authorized. It may be possible, for instance 
for you to arrange, through stipulation of counsel, for in camera 
examination - direct, cross, redirect, and recross'- as to thTexam-
tTa ™
™
^ 
"{! r 6 l a t e d d 0 C u m e n t s- 
I f not, you should make e^ry 
effort to obtain the written consent of counsel for all parties to a 
procedure whereby, with the approval of the court, any reports o£ 
examination, related documents and/or testimony of an equally confi-
dential nature that are received in evidence will be ordered to be 
placed in a sealed portion of the trial record. Thereafter excent 
as such portions of the record may be necessarily included as part of 
the record on appeal, should an appeal be taken from the District 
sj u d 8 m* n t> ^ V w o u l d b e Permanently secured from access by 
the public. It would seem advisable if you or Mr. Farmer with the 
prior consent of trial counsel, could discuss this proposed treatment 
of your Bank's records and related testimony with the inited States 
District Court Judge who will try this case. 
I n V
J
i?y ? f t h e likelikood that continuances in the trial 
of this case will be necessary for one reason or another, the Board's 
authorizations herein granted will apply to any continued date that 
may be set for trial. We will assume that any conflict between a 
continued date and assigned duties of your Bank personnel involved 
will be resolved between you and trial counsel to the satisfaction 
Pff i e s. It is suggested that the interests of your Bank and 
of the witnesses from the Bank will be best served if you are present 
in court at such times as these witnesses are testifying and, to the 
extent compatible with your other duties, at such tils'as the documents 
eUcited 
y° U r B a n k a r e d i r e c t ly Solved in testimony being 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

:$28 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
1/26/67 
A O D R E 8 B 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 27, 1967 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
In accordance with thQ request contained in 
your letter of January 23, 1967, the Board approves 
the appointment of Bernard E. Smith as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
