Minutes for 
March 10, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

915 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 10, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Sigel, Eckert, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, and Kelty 
and Miss Stockwell of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Bryant, Gemmill, 
and Ruckdeschel of the Division of International 
Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty reviewed developments in the 
Government securities market, following which Mr. Fry discussed bank 
Credit projections. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Partee and 
Summons then withdrew, along with Mr. Morgan and Miss McWhirter, and the 
following entered: 

916 
-14-
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Heller, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on March 9, 1967, of the rates on 
discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to 
those Banks. 
Approved items. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item numbers indicated, were approved 
unanimously after consideration of information that had been made avail-
able to the members of the Board and clarification of points about which 
members inquired: 
Letter to The Peninsula Bank of Ishpeming, 
Ishpeming, Michigan, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in Ishpeming Township. 
Letter to Counsel for Barclays Bank Limited 
Slanting a request that the bank be permitted 
to file its registration statement under the 
Bank Holding Company Act with the Federal 
Reserve Bank in San Francisco. 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. At Governor 
Robertson's request Mr. Hackley summarized several matters that had 
be en discussed at a meeting yesterday of the Coordinating Committee on 
Bank Regulation. 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
Item No. 
1 
2 

917 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-14-
Mr. Hackley mentioned first that Governor Robertson would be 
testifying next week before the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions 
of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee with regard to S. 966, 
which would modernize the laws relating to borrowing by member banks 
from the Federal Reserve Banks, S. 965, which would facilitate Federal 
Reserve operations in foreign currencies by permitting investment of 
such currencies in obligations of foreign governments, and S. 714, 
relating to loans by member banks to their executive officers as well 
as loans by Federal credit unions to certain of their officials. The 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency had filed "no objection" letters with regard to those bills. 
However, the Comptroller mentioned that it had been suggested that 
S. 714 be amended to permit loans up to $10,000 to an executive officer 
for the education of his children. 
Governor Robertson stated that if question should be raised at 
the hearing regarding amendment of S. 714 to permit an executive officer 
to borrow up to $10,000 for the education of his children, he proposed 
to say that the Board would have no objection. Other members of the 
Board agreed that such a response would be appropriate. 
Mr. Hackley then said that the staffs of the bank supervisory 
agencies had been working on a statement with regard to certain bank 
accounting practices, a draft of which had been distributed to the 
Members of the Coordinating Committee. No dissent from the principles 
stated therein was expressed, but there was a feeling that the document 

918 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-14-
was somewhat technical and should be redrafted in language more under-
standable to the general public. That was to be done. It was contem-
plated that the final statement might be published in the Federal 
Register but that there would be no press release. 
Governor Robertson commented that the document would come before 
the Board for consideration before any final action was taken. 
Question was raised by Mr. Molony about the indication that no 
press release was contemplated, and Governor Brimmer recalled that when 
the statement on bank advertising practices was sent to all banking 
institutions several months ago some questions were raised with him as 
to why a press release had not been issued. 
Mr. Hackley went on to say that reference had been made at the 
Committee meeting to the Comptroller's proposed revision of the rules 
with regard to disclosure of financial information by national banks. 
It was the consensus that this presented an opportunity to move toward 
greater uniformity in the regulations of the three bank supervisory 
agencies, and it was understood that the staffs of the three agencies 
Would confer for that purpose. 
Governor Robertson commented that the Board would have an oppor-
tunity to review the Comptroller's proposed rules and to determine if 
there was a feasible way in which the regulations of the three agencies 
c°uld be made more uniform. 

919 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-14-
Mr. Hackley noted that a move toward uniformity might suggest 
the making of some changes in the Board's regulations, particularly in 
terms of bringing smaller State member banks within the coverage thereof. 
Mr. Hackley then said that mention was made at the Committee 
meeting of a legislative proposal by the New York State Superintendent 
of Banks that would, in effect, give State insured banks the same 
privileges in respect to interstate operations as national banks. The 
Comptroller of the Currency and his counsel felt that the proposal, as 
advanced by the Superintendent, would not be feasible in application, 
and the Comptroller had responded in such terms to a request from a 
Congressional committee. 
Mr. Hackley observed that the foregoing was one of the points 
covered in the study made recently by a System Ad Hoc Bank Charter 
Committee. A memorandum had been distributed to the Board regarding 
the report of the Subcommittee of that Committee, but thus far it had 
been considered by the Board only on a preliminary basis. 
There was also discussion at the Committee meeting, Mr. Hackley 
said, regarding the practice initiated by a national bank in Arizona of 
establishing electro-tellers at which customers could make deposits and 
receive receipts. The former Comptroller of the Currency had ruled that 
the operation of such machines would not involve branch banking. However, 
the Chairmen of the Home Loan Bank Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation indicated that in somewhat analogous situations they had held 

920 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-14-
that a branch operation would be involved. Aside from the legal ques-
tion, the consensus at the Committee meeting was that a practice of this 
kind had rather important policy implications for the future. An opinion 
was expressed, however, that the operation of the machines would be quite 
expensive, which would militate against a spread of the practice. 
Governor Robertson commented that if such operations proved suc-
cessful, large banks could surround smaller banks with such machines and 
create severe competitive problems. Thus, if such operations threatened 
to become widespread, there were policy implications that might call for 
the enactment of legislation. 
The Comptroller's Office did not want to 
reverse the previous ruling if the scope of the operation by the Arizona 
bank proved to be insignificant, but it was possible that a substantial 
Problem might arise. His purpose in raising the question with the Com-
mittee, Governor Robertson said, had been to assure that the interested 
Parties would be giving consideration to the matter. 
Governor Maisel noted that this appeared to have some relation-
ship to the whole question of the so-called checkless society. 
The 
matter should be thought through carefully to see whether any rules 
imposed in this particular connection would interfere with concepts 
such as those underlying the extensive use of credit cards and similar 
instruments. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that the matter should be examined 
carefully. 

921 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-14-
Mr. Hackley mentioned that thus far no question had been raised 
by any State member bank. However, the State Bank Superintendent of 
Arizona was concerned. 
Governor Daane inquired about the status of proposed legislation 
relating to the activities of foreign banks in the United States. 
Governor Robertson replied that at the most recent interagency 
meeting on the subject, held at the Treasury, there were a number of 
different views expressed. It was finally decided to wait for a while 
and see what developed in the Congress before determining whether the 
Treasury would take the initiative. Congressman Patman had introduced 
a bill that would vest in the Treasury the power to authorize any foreign 
institution to operate in the United States, with supervisory responsi-
bility placed in the Comptroller of the Currency and recognition given 
to the branch laws of the individual States. 
Governor Robertson recalled having reported at the March 3 Board 
meeting on the latest Treasury draft bill, under which regulatory and 
supervisory responsibilities at the Federal level would be given to the 
Comptroller of the Currency. 
His position, Governor Robertson said, had been that he was not 
convinced of the need for Federal legislation in this area. If there 
a need, it went principally to the question of reciprocity. 
There-
fore, it should only be necessary to give the Department of State power 
to approve or disapprove entry of foreign banks into the United States. 

922 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-14-
However, if it should be decided that it was advisable to provide for 
supervision by the Federal Government, as well as the States, over the 
functions of branches and subsidiaries of foreign banks doing business 
in the United States, that function should be centralized in one agency. 
That agency should be the Federal Reserve because it exercised authority 
with respect to foreign operations of U.S. banks, because its staff had 
built up an expertise, and because it had established relationships with 
other central banks through which it could obtain information not avail-
able to any other agency. 
Governor Daane said the position outlined by Governor Robertson 
made sense to him. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the Treasury was aware of the 
fact that if the Treasury draft bill should be submitted for clearance 
through the Budget Bureau, the Board would expect to express disagree-
ment. The Treasury was also aware that the Board, if called upon to 
testify, would expect to express opposition. 
Governor Robertson then referred to a problem that had arisen 
under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort. Application had 
been made in 1964 for a charter for a national bank in New York City. 
After the voluntary program was launched the applicants advised the 
Comptroller that 80 per cent of the bank's business would be done in 
foreign credits, and the charter was granted. The bank had found it 
difficult, operating in New York City, to obtain domestic business, but 

10 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-14-
it had built up its foreign credits to about $16 million. The bank 
asserted that it could not possibly stay within the normal guideline 
ceiling under the voluntary program, which would amount to only about 
$900 ,000. It felt that since an agency of the Federal Government had 
authorized the bank to begin business, with knowledge that 80 per cent 
of its loans were expected to be foreign credits, special consideration 
was warranted. 
Governor Robertson felt that an exception probably would have 
to be made for the bank, on some restrictive basis, in order to keep 
the bank from becoming insolvent. He had raised the question, Governor 
Robertson said, because he wanted to obtain a clear understanding that 
the Comptroller would not grant more charters under such conditions. 
An understanding had been reached that the Comptroller would not do so 
without checking with the Board. 
Governor Brimmer inquired as to current views on the part of the 
supervisory agencies regarding the use of the interest rate ceiling 
authority. 
Governor Robertson responded that from time to time Chairman 
Horne had suggested that he would like to bring savings and loan divi-
dend rates down by reducing the ceiling. Governor Robertson said he had 
expressed the view that the agencies should follow the rates down and 
not force them. He thought that that was the general feeling and that 
Mr. Horne concurred at the moment, although Mr. Horne felt he would be 

924 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-14-
under some pressure. At present, Governor Robertson added, there was 
nothing pending in the way of interagency consultation on the matter 
of changing the current interest rate ceilings. 
Report on international meetings. Governor Daane made an infor-
mal report to the Board on his attendance at meetings in Europe last week 
of a working subgroup of the Deputies of the Group of Ten and on a meet-
ing of the Deputies. Mr. Solomon reported on a meeting of Working 
Party 3. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman and Kenyon then 
withdrew. 
Deferral of retirement date. Governor Shepardson referred to a 
memorandum from the Secretary dated March 1, 1967, recommending,for 
reasons stated, deferral of the retirement date of Margaret J. Molster, 
Supervisor of Subject Files in the Records Section of the Secretary's 
Office, from the end of March until not later than the end of September 
1967, with the understanding that Mrs. Molster would serve after the 
end of March under a title of Records Analyst and that supervisory 
adjustments within the Records Section heretofore planned and approved 
m anticipation of Mrs. Molster's retirement would go forward as con-
templated. 
Governor Shepardson noted that the Director of the Division of 
Personnel Administration had submitted a memorandum under date of 
March 6 recommending that Mrs. Molster be retained on a per diem basis 

925 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-14-
rather than to continue her employment beyond retirement date and that 
the per diem rate be set at $26, which would be in accordance with the 
formula normally used (in effect, current salary reduced by the amount 
of the retirement annuity received). 
Governor Shepardson said that he saw no serious problem in 
deferring a retirement date temporarily if the Board in its discretion 
concluded that the person was needed for the Board's purposes. He 
thought that this was a judgment the Board could properly exercise and 
that the question of precedent need not preclude the Board from making 
an exception to retirement on the normal date if the circumstances 
justified. 
Governor Brimmer said his basic inclination was to agree with 
the Director of Personnel, who had mentioned in his memorandum that 
deviation from the general practice of long standing might give rise 
to requests for continuation of employment beyond age 65 where the 
circumstances were not clearly justifiable. Governor Brimmer also saw 
the possibility of discrimination vis-a-vis the Federal Reserve Banks. 
It was his understanding that in certain cases the Board had disapproved 
requests from Reserve Banks to retain employees beyond the normal retire-
m ent date. 
It was noted that the rules and regulations of the Bank Plan of 
Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks provide for retire-
ment of employees within a period of 90 days after reaching age 65, but 

926 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-14-
that the Board Plan contains no similar 90-day provision. Reference 
was made to certain cases in which approval had been granted, in the 
case of Reserve Bank personnel, for retention beyond the 90-day period 
in special circumstances, and also to certain cases where the Board had 
been reluctant to approve continued retention of such personnel. 
Governor Robertson said he felt exceptions should be allowed in 
the case of Board personnel only where the approach was made at the 
Board's initiative and for the Board's benefit. In the particular case 
under consideration, he believed that an exception would be justified 
because the circumstances were such that deferral of the retirement date 
would be to the Board's advantage. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that a deferral of six months 
was reasonable in this instance, although he felt that the Board should 
adhere closely to the principle of retirement at the normal date. If 
evidence should appear of any significant trend toward requests for 
exceptions, he would take a negative attitude. He agreed with Governor 
Robertson that any exceptions should be made at the Board's initiative 
and where they would work clearly to the benefit of the Board. 
Governor Brimmer then said that he would be willing to approve 
the deferral in this case on the basis that unforeseeable circumstances 
involved. However, he hoped that the heads of divisions would be 
alert in building up adequate staff to provide for approaching retire-
ments. 

3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-13-
The recommendation in the Secretary's March 1 memorandum was 
the n approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Letters were sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of its 
intent to establish an additional branch in 
Hong Kong, to be located in Repulse Bay, and 
two additional branches in Asuncion, Paraguay. 
It was noted that no additional remittances of 
funds would be required from the home office. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Carroll Hawkins as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Henry Pratt, Jr., as Refrigeration Mechanic-Operating Engineer, 
Division of Administrative Services, with basic annual salary at the 
rate of $7,758, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Eva K. Blackburn as Senior Programmer, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $12,443, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Audrey L. Litman as Statistical Assistant, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,507, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Samuel Harper O'Neal as Production Control Clerk, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,331, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Hiawatha Wages as Chart Machine Operator, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,857, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 

928 
3 / 1 0 / 6 7 
-14-
Reinstatement following military service 
K. L. Johnson, Graphic Illustrator (Trainee), Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,557, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increase 
Virginia Ann Callahan, Secretary, Legal Division, from $6,461 to 
$6 ,877 per annum, effective March 26, 1967. 
Transfers 
Shirley L. B. Jackson, from the position of Chart Machine Operator 
to the position of Senior Electronic Accounting Machine Operator, Divi-
sion of Data Processing, with no change in basic annual salary at the 
rate of $7,055, effective March 12, 1967. 
Dorothy Slagle, Statistical Assistant, Division of Data Processing, 
to another budget position in the Financial Statistics Section, with no 
change in basic annual salary at the rate of $5,683, effective March 12, 
1967. 
Maternity leave 
Annie Cromartie, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, beginning February 27, 1967. 

929 
8 D A R O O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
<jOf Go," 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
3/10/67 
V^RES^ 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 10, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Peninsula Bank of 
Ishpeming, 
Ishpeming, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Peninsula Bank 
of Ishpeming, Ishpeming, Michigan, of a branch at the 
intersection of U. S. Highway No. 41 and Lilac Street, 
Ishpeming Township, Marquette County, Michigan, provided 
the branch is established within nine months from the 
date of this letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
3/10/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
March 10, 1967. 
Air Mail 
Webster V. Clark, Esq., 
Rogers, Clark & Jordan, 
111 Sutter Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94124 
Re: Barclays Bank Limited - Registration under 
Bank Holding Company Act as amended July 1, 1966. 
Dear Mr. Clark: 
This refers to your letters of February 6 and 21, 1967, 
in which you request that Barclays Bank Limited be permitted to 
file its registration statement with the Federal Reserve Bank in 
San Francisco. 
You are advised that the registration of Barclays Bank 
Limited as a bank holding company, pursuant to the requirements 
°f the Act, may be effected by the filing of a statement with 
the Federal Reserve Bank in San Francisco. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
C c : Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, V.P., 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco. 
