MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 4, 1972 

1167 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 4, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 11:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
>J : 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
. 
3 f »•'•••: >: 
' : > 
it r* • •• i> (,•;•.:: • ^ 
• .: t 3 
of 
Other appropriate members of the^staff* , 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
(fe0-1 ; (•"•? . I\ 
- I 
federal Reserve Bank of Boston on May 1, 1972, of the rates on discounts 
LH . f. o XO t-n-U'; •••. * v*;i ly 
t. • >v -M: civ- 
«. 
'..-vi o r Zvx^ 
ar*d advances in its existing schedule was approved unanimously, with the 
i 
X ^ a 1" I •!'>' •*:>":, , <";<•;: ,7^'r 4 Co 
rv, 
• ' " 
f»I R<' r>r. L.'ri 
understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to that Bank. 

1163 
5/4/72 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Valley 
Bank and Trust Company, Des Moines, Iowa, for admission to membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. In a related action the Board unani-
mously approved the application of Valley Bank and Trust Company for 
permission to carry reduced reserves. Copies of the letters sent to 
the applicant are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting denial 
°n April 21, 1972, of the application of First Bancorp, Inc., Cincinnati, 
°hio, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares 
°f The Athens National Bank, Athens; The Security Bank, Athens; and 
The New Richmond National Bank, New Richmond, all in Ohio. A copy of 
•the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Huntington 
Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of The 
First National Bank of Kenton, Kenton, Ohio, and authorized issuance 
^li^o^der, reflecting that decision. . A copy of the order,is attached 
a s Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Boatmen's 
Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank of 
Tr°y, Troy, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
^hat decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The First 
National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to transfer all of the 

1163 
5/4/72 
-3-
assets of the mortgage banking division of The First National Bank of 
Denver to a proposed new wholly-owned subsidiary, First Denver 
Mortage Company, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Wyoming 
Bancorporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to acquire shares of University 
National Bank of Laramie, Laramie, Wyoming, and authorized issuance 
°f an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
a s Item No. 7. 
This concluded consideration oftthe consent calendar. 
Conflicts of interest. A memorandum from the Legal Division 
dated May 1, 1972, recommended publication of a regulation limiting 
the activities of former members and employees of the Board in matters 
connected with their former duties or official responsibilities. The 
Memorandum dealt with the need for the adoption of a regulation, the 
relevant statutory law, the practices of other Federal agencies, and 
the relevant decisional law. It was noted that a Federal criminal 
statute, 18 U.S.C. 207, and the Canons of Professional Ethics of the 
American Bar Association dealt directly with the issue. However, it 
W a s the opinion of the Division that in view of the increase in the 
number of the Board's employees and the Board's responsibilities in 
a r eas that require applications for its approval, the Board's rules 

1163 
5/4/72 
-2-
governing Employee Responsibilities and Conduct should be amended to 
deal with the question. 
In general the proposed regulation would provide that former 
members or employees of the Board (1) could not appear before the 
Board within one year after leaving the Board in connection with 
matters over which they had official responsibility, and (2) could not 
appear before the Board at any time in connection with matters in 
which they had been substantially involved while at the Board. It 
would also establish a procedure whereby former employees wishing to 
appear before the Board could obtain authorization to do so. Failure 
to comply with the provisions of the regulation could result in suspen-
sion of privileges to appear before the Board. 
During discussion questions were raised about the difference 
between relying on the existing Federal statute and the Canons of 
Professional Ethics and publication of the proposed regulation. Ques-
tions were also raised about how the regulation would apply to consul-
tants and former members of the Board. 
Continuing discussion indicated that Governors Daane and 
Sheehan were reluctant to adopt the regulation, in part because it 
mi-ght adversely affect the maintenance of an environment of which 
highest ethics were an unquestioned integral part. Chairman Burns 
and Governors Robertson and Brimmer felt that publication of a regulation 

1163 
5/4/72 
-2-
would better serve the interests of the Board and its employees. They 
felt that because of the quasi-judicial nature of the Board's function, 
the absence of a regulation might make the Board more vulnerable to 
criticism. They also felt that it would be beneficial to former 
employees to clarify the limitations on their activities. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
after revision in light of the views expressed, the proposed regula-
tion would be given further consideration. 
Hawkeye Bancorporation. In memoranda dated March 13 and 
April 20, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation presented 
applications of Hawkeye Bancorporation, Des Moines, Iowa, to acquire 
shares of seven banks in Iowa. The Division of Supervision and 
Regulation and the Banking Markets Section recommended approval of six 
the applications. The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago recommended 
denial of all of the applications except that with respect to a bank 
in Boone. 
At today's meeting several members of the Board indicated 
that they had reservations about the management of Hawkeye Bancorpora-
tion and that they would be reluctant to approve any of the applications. 
However, other members of the Board felt that it would be a mistake to 
Jthe applications, F because acquisijtions ~ by applicant . migh|;, JielR. 
to strengthen the banking system in Iowa and because applicant appeared 
to have corrected all matters brought to its attention. 

1163 
5/4/72 
-2-
Action on the applications was deferred, with the understanding 
that the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago would be asked to confer with 
•.••} 
• , 
. . . . . . . . 
applicant (with Board staff present) and submit its findings to the 
Board. 
Clearance and settlement of securities transactions. With a 
T > ••...• 
. . - . 
• 
• 
memorandum of April 28, 1972, Mr. Solomon submitted a draft statement 
for responding to the request of the Subcommittee on Securities of the 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs for the Board's 
views on three bills (S. 2551, S. 3297, and S. 3412) affecting the 
clearance and settlement of securities transactions. A suggested 
*^visi£(5n o£ i*ti<B stateinerit/ to meet a point raised fey Mr. John M. Meyer, 
T 
Jr»» Chairman of the Banking and Securities Industry Committee, was 
Proposed by Mr. Solomon in a memorandum of May 3. 
At today's meeting the staff was requested to confer with 
officials of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the 
Possible implications of the proposed revision of the statement, after 
which it was understood that the Board would consider the matter further. 
The meeting then continued with limited staff attendance. 
Staff changes. The Board approved the appointment of E. Maurice 
McWhirter to replace Lloyd M. Schaeffer as Chief Federal Reserve 
Examiner, Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, effective May 4, 
l 9 72, with annual salary at the rate of $27,500. 

1163 
5/4/72 
-2-
The Board also approved a recommendation of the General Counsel 
that Mrs. Pauline B. Heller's title be changed from Adviser in the Legal 
Division to Assistant General Counsel effective the date of Board action. 
It was understood that at an appropriate time Mrs. Heller's salary 
would be reviewed and a recommendation for an increase would be made 
to the Board by the General Counsel and the Executive Director. 
The Chairman then called the Board into executive session 
and all staff members except Mr. Holland withdrew. 
Board member assignments. The Chairman called to the attention 
°f the Board members the proposed changes in Board member assignments 
looking forward to the arrival of Governor-designate Bucher. After 
discussion of several mutually acceptable changes, the Chairman 
indicated he would be acting promptly to implement the assignments. 
: 
L 
- 
' 
(In a memorandum dated May 5, 1972, the Chairman acted to establish 
the official Board member assignments approved in the executive session 
°n May 4. A copy of this memorandum is attached as Item No. 8.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
IN 

1174 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
. ^ O V C O I ^ . . 
D F T H E 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
5/4/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2055) 
•.'YMM-V--:-
ATLDRTAN OFFICIAL CORIIRKPOIIOENCE 
TO THE. HOARD 
May 4, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Valley Bank and Trust Company 
Des Moines, Iowa 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Valley Bank and Trust Company, Des 
Moines, Iowa, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, such bank shall not cause 
or permit any change to be made in the general 
character of its business or in the scope of the 
corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
? 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character 
and condition of its assets and to its deposit 
liabilities and other corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board s 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 20b./ 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
The Board of Governors also approves the retention and 
operation of the present in-town branch. 

Board of Directors 
- 2 -
1175 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
chatter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
Board of Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy 
°f such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
°f the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
°f Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
limited to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
aPplies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied with 
and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been 
issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certi-
ficate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means of making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
Enclosure 

II'VJ 
B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N G R S 
OF THE 
item No. 2 
E D E R A L . 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
5/4/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS NRNPIAL CDRKCRPONDI;NCE 
TO THE NOARD 
May 4, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Valley Bank and Trust Company 
Des Moines, Iowa 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, the Board of Governors, acting 
under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
grants permission to the Valley Bank and Trust Company to main-
tain the same reserves against deposits as are required to be 
maintained by member banks not in a reserve city, effective as 
the date it becomes a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
•. • I 
, 
• ,' 
. 
. 
•. • 
Your attention is called to the fact that such 
Permission is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
The Board of Governors has recently published for 
Public comment a proposal for revision of regulations that would 
Restructure the reserve requirements of all member banks. If 
such a revision should be adopted, your bank would be subject to 
the revised schedule of requirements. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

1177 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/4/72 
FIRST BANCORP, INC. 
Order Denying Formation of Bank Holding Company 
First Bancorp, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of: (1) The Athens National Bank, Athens ("Athens 
Bank"); (2) The Security Bank, Athens ("Security Bank"); and (3) The 
New Richmond National Bank, New Richmond ("Richmond Bank"), all in Ohio. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
The subject banks are presently owned by a partnership and 
its wholly owned subsidiary corporation, both of which became regulated 
bank holding companies as a result of the Bank Holding Company Act * 
Amendments of 1970. Both have filed irrevocable declarations pursuant 
t o § 4(c)(12) of the Act and the Board's regulations thereunder that 
they will divest themselves of their interests in the banks prior to 
January 1, 1981. Applicant would initially be owned by these companies, 
however, Applicant states that it is intended that the companies would 
divest themselves of the banks by selling Applicant's shares to a control 
Sroup and to other members of the public. It is contended that this 

1178 
-2-
proposal is necessary in order to permit more orderly divestiture 
the banks and that the banks are more marketable as a package. 
Athens Bank ($32.5 million deposits), the largest of eight 
banks in the Athens County, Ohio, banking market, operates six branches 
i n that market (5 of which are located within the City of Athens) and 
controls approximately 38 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
banks in that area. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1971 and reflect 
bank holding company formations and acquisitions through December 31, 
1971.) Security Bank ($12.9 million deposits) operates one banking 
ice located in the City of Athens and is the second largest bank 
i n the Athens County banking market, controlling approximately 15 
p e r cent of total deposits in commercial banks in that market. New 
Richmond Bank ($4.2 million deposits) operates one bank approximately 
1 3 0 fciles east of Athens, Ohio, in the City of New Richmond, Clermont 
County, Ohio, (which is considered part of the Cincinnati, Ohio, 
banking market) and controls .2 per cent of deposits in commercial 
b a n k s in that market. 
Security and Athens Banks, which together hold more than 
5 0 Per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in the Athens 
c°unty area, have been affiliated by common stock ownership since 1963 
this 
ownership was formalized by the acquisition of the banks in 
l 9 63 and 1966, respectively, by a partnership and its affiliated 
CorPoration. The main office of Athens Bank and the only office of 
c 
eourity Bank are located directly across the street from each other 
in 
n downtown Athens. Four branches of Athens Bank are located within 

11 
-3-
a four mile radius of its main office. Although both banks are 
chartered as commercial banks, by agreement, Security Bank has been 
°Perated more in the nature of a savings bank by accepting only time 
and savings accounts from the general public. The Board concurs with 
Applicant's statement that no present competition exists between these 
hanks which would be eliminated by the proposal herein. However, the 
Board finds that the proposal raises serious competitive questions in 
view of Applicant's stated intention to divest these banks as a unit 
through the bank holding company vehicle. 
The Department of Justice, commenting on the competitive 
effects of the proposal, found that the establishment of common ownership 
a n d c°ntrol of the two Athens banks was anticompetitive in its origin 
and that their joint operation in the same banking market eliminated 
Substantial actual and potential competition. The Department found 
that allowing acquisition of both banks by Applicant would tend to 
perPetuate a high degree of concentration in the Athens market and 
w°nld have a significantly adverse effect on competition. 
The Board is aware that neither approval nor denial of the 
in ant application will have any immediate effect on banking competi-
«. J 
n 
concentration in the Athens market. However, the Board believes 
that -J « 
i n a concentrated market, such as Athens, the foreclosure of any 
*8nificant possibility of deconcentration has an adverse effect on 
0niPetition. Security Bank has full commercial banking powers and 
Qent the present relationship has the potential of being an active 
0lnPetitor in Athens. The rapid growth of Hocking Valley Bank of 

Athens (founded in 1965) to virtually the same size as Security Bank 
shows the need in Athens for competitive banking alternatives. 
At present the banks are subject to divestiture prior to 
January 1, 1981. Any such divestiture through sale to corporate or 
Partnership interests would require the prior approval of the Board. 
Given the structure of banking in Athens, it is clear that, were the 
t W o banks unaffiliated, any proposal to place them both in the same 
holding company structure would involve significantly anticompetitive 
e^fects. Consummation of the instant proposal would virtually insure 
^ 
continued operation of the banks as a group and foreclose the 
Probability that the required divestiture would be carried out through 
sale of the banks separately and that Security Bank would realize its 
Potential as an alternative source of full banking services. This 
foreclosure has a significantly adverse effect on potential competition 
filiation of New Richmond Bank with either of the Athens Banks 
v°uld not, however, raise similar problems. 
On the basis of the record, and due to the fact that the 
instant proposal involves merely a restructuring of present affili-
^ions, the Board finds that the proposal would have little effect 
011 the banking convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
Of 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
tlle banks involved. These considerations provide no weight toward 
aPproval and do not outweigh the adverse competitive effects of the 
Pr°P°sal. i t i s the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal 
V°uld not be in the public interest and that the application should 
b e denied. 

1181 
-5-
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for 
the reasons summarized above. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May A, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
M' 
N 
> : v 
A/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^itchell, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, 
and Brimmer. 

1182 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED 
5/4/72 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)) to acquire 00 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The First National Bank of Kenton, ICenton, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a l 1 comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the fourth largest multibank holding company and 
sixth largest banking organization in Ohio, has eleven subsidiary 
kanks with aggregate deposits of $903 million, representing approximately 
4 
cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking 
^ata are as of June 30, 1971 and reflect all bank holding company 
ac<luisitions approved through March 31, 1972.) Consummation of the 
^r°P°sal herein would increase Applicant's share of commercial bank 
:s in the State by an insignificant amount and its ranking in 
ijhL. . 
e State would be unchanged. 

9 
11S3 
- 2 -
Bank (approximately $12 million deposits) operates one 
hanking office located in Kenton, Hardin County, Ohio. Bank is the 
second largest of seven banks in the Hardin County banking market, 
and controls 20 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in 
that area. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank located closest to Bank is 
miles northwest of Bank in adjoining Allen County, Ohio, and 
ls considered to operate in a separate but adjacent banking market, 
n 
appears that there is no significant competition between Bank 
arid this or any of Applicant's other subsidiary banks. Moreover, 
^ does not appear likely that such competition would develop in the 
future because of the distances separating Bank from Applicant's 
Present subsidiary banks, the number of banks located in intervening 
areas, and the restrictive provisions of the Ohio law on branch banking. 
Although 
Bank and Applicant's Allen County subsidiary could elect to 
Gstablish branches in closer proximity to each other along their 
c°mmon county border, the rural character of the area separating 
ttlese banks and the presence of three intervening banks make this 
Possibility remote. There appears to be little likelihood that 
applicant 
would establish a de novo office in the Hardin County 
banking market in view of the loxj population per banking office 
rati0 existing in that area.~^ It appears, therefore, that 
y Population to banking office ratio of Hardin County is 3,001 
c°mpared with the State average of 5,764. 

- 3 -
1184 
consummation of the proposal herein would neither eliminate meaningful 
existing competition nor foreclose significant potential competition, 
^filiation with Applicant will introduce an additional bank holding 
company organization into the Hardin County area and should enable 
•n < 
n u to compete more aggressively with the area's largest bank, which 
i s a subsidiary of the State's largest bank holding company. Thus, 
aPproval of the instant application should have a procompetitive effect 
° n competition in the area. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that-
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an 
Averse effect on competition in any relevant area. The financial 
managerial resources and prospects of Applicant and its subisidary 
anks are satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. 
ank s financial condition and future prospects are satisfactory. 
ffiliation with Applicant should enable Bank to draw upon Applicant's 
atlagerial resources to provide an adequate source of qualified 
managenient personnel. The banking needs of the Hardin County area 
PPear to be adequately served at the present time; however, Applicant 
pr°Poses to make trust services available through Bank and to assist 
Bank * 
in meeting requests for larger loans through participation 
events with its other subsidiary banks. Thus, considerations 
ltlg to the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
°vided these additional services lend some weight toward approval 
° f ^ e application. 

^RNMNT^M 
1X85 
_ 4 -
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
f°t good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 4, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Mitchell and Maisel. 

118S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BOATMEN'S BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Bank of Troy, Troy, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a3-l comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the sixth largest banking organization and the 
si*th largest bank holding company in Missouri on the basis of deposits, 
h a s four subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $349.2 million, 
representing 3.03 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the' 
state. ( A H banking data are as of June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect 
Elding 
company acquisitions and formations approved by the Board through 
March 31, 1972.) Consummation of the proposal herein would increase 
applicant fs share of commercial bank deposits in the State by less than 
°f a percentage point, and would not alter Applicant's ranking among 
tlle State's other banking organizations and bank holding companies. 
Item No. 5 
5/4/72 

-2-
1187 
Bank ($8 million of deposits) is the only bank in Troy, a 
community with a population of about 2,500, and ranks as the largest 
°f six banks in Lincoln County (the relevant market), with 27.2 per 
cent of area deposits. Although Bank is the largest bank in the 
Lincoln County market, it does not occupy a dominant position. Bank 
has been operated conservatively, with a loan to deposit ratio of 
approximately 30 per cent; and, although its earnings have increased 
steadily and prospects appear favorable, its rate of growth has 
been slower than that of the competing area banks. Applicant's sub-
sidiary located closest to Bank is 22 miles southeast of Bank; 
neither it nor any of Applicant's other subsidiaries compete with 
fiank to any significant extent. Moreover, the development of such 
- 
C I 
competition is considered unlikely because of the large number of 
banks in the intervening area, Missouri's restrictive branching law, 
and a low population to bank ratio in Bank's service area mitigating 
against Applicant's de novo entry into the Lincoln County area. It 
appears, therefore, that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
n°t eliminate existing or potential competition nor have adverse effects 
°n any competing bank. 
The considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources are regarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval of 
the application as they relate to Applicant and its subsidiaries, and lend 
some weight toward approval as they relate to Bank since Applicant will 

1188 
-5-
assist Bank in meeting a management succession problem, and will provide 
Bank with additional personnel in order to better serve the needs of the 
community. Applicant proposes to broaden Bank's lending program, 
establish Saturday banking, add a drive-in facility, and provide trust 
and data processing services. None of the above services are generally 
accessible to the residents of the area, and the addition and expansion 
of these services should aid in the development of the area. Thus, 
these considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
area lend weight for approval of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest and 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective May 4, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
l o o t i n g for this action: Chairman Burns and 
G
o
v
e
r
n
o
r
s Robertson Daane, 
Brimmer" and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and 
Maisel. 

tEDEllAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 1 ^ 9 
Item No. 6 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC. 
5/4/72 
Order Approving Transfer of Assets of Mortgage Banking Division 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, 
a bank holding company uithin the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
and o 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to transfer all of the 
*Mets (including servicing rights) of the mortgage banking division 
She First National Bank of Denver, Denver, Colorado ("First Nat W l " ) , 
« banking subsidiary, to a proposed new vholly-ovmed subsidiary, First 
Denver Mortgage Company ("Mortgage Company"), and thereby to continue to 
engage in the activity of mortgage banking. Such activity has been de-
termined by the Board to be closely related to the business of banking 
0-2 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
kas been duly published (37 Federal Register 5775). The time for filing 
laments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant is the largest banking organization in Colorado 
*lth aggregate deposits of $706.1 million,^representing 15.3 per cent 
total commercial deposits in the State." First National, Applicant's 
i T ^ r ^ a ^ i r E r i T T T T ^ f June 30, 1971, and reflect bank holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through March 31, 1972. 
A s o J u n 
3<>, 1960. or immediately prior to First National's acquisition of Mortgage 
investments Company, Applicant controlled deposits of $489.9 million, rep-
R e n t i n g 14.2 per cent of total commercial deposits in the State. 
. 

1 1 9 0 
lead bank, has been active in the origination of mortgage loans 
(primarily commercial mortgages and construction loans) and in 
1967 originated $27.9 million, or 4.0 per cent, of all mortgages 
2 / 
' 
recorded in the Denver market. 
At this time, First National 
serviced all mortgage loans for its own account, with the exception 
$17.7 million in loans serviced for one institutional investor, 
and ranked 121st in mortgage servicing among commercial banks in 
United States. 
" • 
/ 
During 1967, the year before it was acquired by First 
National, Mortgage Investments Company, Denver, Colorado 
MVIT 
'"'TILA -
Hie Denver market consists of the Denver SMSA, 

1191 
("Company") originated $21.7 million, or 3.1 per cent, of 
all ttortgapes recorded in the Denver market,, On the basis of a 
3/ 
^ t g a g e servicing portfolio of $256 million, 
Company ranked 
5&th nrr.ong all mortgage banking firms in the United States. Company!s 
loading consisted primarily of residential mortgage loans while First 
National's activity was mostly in corrmercial mortgages and construction 
As the lending activity of the two institutions was substantial^ 
lV in different product markets, the Board concludes that the acquisition 
^ 
only slight adverse effects on competition. Although First National 
became the largest mortgage lender in the Denver market after the ac-
quisition with a market share of 7,3 per cent, the market is relatively 
Unconcentroted0 
Nor is there anything in the record to indicate that 
acquisition led to en undue concentration of resources, conflicts 
interests or unsound banking practices. On balance, the Board 
c°ncluden that the slight anticompetitive effects of the acquisition 
outweighed by the public benefits that potentially could be de-
rived from operation of Company by a holding company with the size 
a resources of this Applicant. 
v v 
Following the acquisition of Company by First National in 
Company's branches in the Denver area were closed and due to 
C61 
*orado commercial bank regulations, Company's full service branches 
Servicing "portfolio as of June 30, 1960. 

1192 
• • 
I Y. 
in Colorado Springs and Greeley were restricted in their operations 
to the activity of mortgage originations. These measures helped slow 
Company's growth rate, 
_ 
/ 
The proposed transfer of the mortgage division into an 
operating subsidiary of the holding company would leave unchanged 
the present competitive situation in the Denver mortgage market. 
' 
She transfer would allow the new subsidiary to convert the loan 
Production offices in Greeley and Colorado Springs to full service 
branches and would allow the mortgage banking function to be con-^ 
ducted on a more cbmpcM^J^^msis with other mortgage companies. 
In addition, the new subsidiary would be able to open additional 
full service offices both within and outside the State. The Board 
includes that these measures would be procompetitive, and that 
transfer of the functions of the mortgage banking division of First 
National to Applicant's proposed new subsidiary would be in the 
Public interest. 
Eased upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
*n the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
v 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(0) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^termination i3 subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
c f Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modifi-
C Q U o n or termination of the activities of a holding company or any 

1133 
of Its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
Uith the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. , 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective Hay 4, 1972. 
Tynan Smith 
* /' 
/Secretary of the Board 
J 
\ 
X 
5 n r ^ t H i T f o r this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Brimmer and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
and Maisel. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEII 
5/4/72° 
WYOMING BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Wyoming Bancorporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act, has applied for the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(3) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)) to acquire 97.6 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of University National Bank of Laramie, 
Laramie, Wyoming ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
a n d all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
i n 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls eight banks with total deposits of 
million, representing 9.7 per cent of the total deposits 
itl commercial banks in Wyoming,-^and is the second largest banlc-
i nS organization in the State. (Banking data are as of June 30, 
Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $6.9 million) would not 
increase Applicant's share of total deposits in 
t h e State. 
Bank is the smallest of three banks operating in the 
-Jfaiaie banking market (approximated by Albany County) and holds 
approximately 11.9 per cent of the deposits in the market. 
vot 
lIarch 23, 1972, the Board approved Applicant's acquisition of 
^ 
itlE shares of banks in Lander, Luslc, and Rawlins, Wyoming. Data 
r these banks are included in the textual data for Applicant, 

Applicant's subsidiary closest to Bank is located in Cheyenne, 
fifty miles east of Laramie. This distance, the existence of 
intervening banks and geographical barriers, and Wyoming's pro-
hibition against branch banking have precluded the development 
°f competition between any of Applicant's subsidiary banks and 
Bank. These same factors would appear to preclude the future 
development of competition between any of those subsidiaries and 
Bank. The population of the Laramie banking market adequately 
supports three banks, but is insufficient to make the market 
attractive for de novo entry. 
The financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are con-
sidered generally satisfactory and are consistent with approval. 
Consummation of this proposal would have beneficial effects on 
the convenience and needs of the Laramie area in that consummation 
w U l enable Bank to activate its trust powers and to broaden its 
lending activities, especially in the areas of residential and 
agricultural lending. Considerations related to the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served, therefore, weigh 
slightly in favor of approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f°r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 

1198 
-3-
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
? / 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective May 4, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
iTvoting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Mitchell and Maisel, 

BDARD nr GDVERNDRG 
or 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Com 
.Board of Governors 
Subject:. 
I t e m No. 
8 
5/4/72 
1 1 9 7 
Date 
M ^ 5> 3-972 
Board Member Assignments 
Chairman Burns 
• Pursuant to our discussion at the Board meeting yesterday, I am 
*cting herewith to make the following redistribution of Board Member assign-
ments f o r t h e d i s c h a r g e of various Federal Reserve responsibilities. 
The 
aJsignments noted for Governor-designate Bucher should be regarded as 
^fective on the date he takes his oath of office; all other new assignments 
effective immediately. 
New 
Acim 
^istrative responsibilities 
1 the Board of Governors as 
defined by the Board 
e Arts Committee 
M 
^ernb 
Chairman Burns 
Chairman Burns 
(Chairman) 
Governor Sheehan 
(Vice Chairman) 
Governor Mitchell 
r> National Advisory Council Chairman Eurns 
International M o n e t a r y and 
^ancial Policies 
Me 
Emergency Loan Guarantee 
S e s s i o n a l r e l a t i o n s 
^ r a i Reserve d i r e c t o r s , 
A i r m e n , etc. 
"banks 
•uth. 
ih-Lending 
Chairman Burns 
Chairman Burns 
Vice Chairman 
Robertson 
Vice Chairman 
Robertson 
Vice Chairman 
Robertson 
Inter-Agency Coordinating Governor Mitchell 
^ittee on Bank Regulation 
*>*itt 
Co: 
ittee on Financial 
tatistics 
Governor Mitchell 
(Chairman) 
Governor Daane 
Governor Brimmer 
Previous 
Same 
Same 
Same 
Same 
Same 
Same 
Same 
Same 
Same 
Same 

- 2 -
1138 
oara. representatives to discuss 
Possible changes in status of 
Ranches, agencies and other 
^filiates of foreign banks 
the United States 
^stem Steering Committee on 
Improving the Payments 
Mechanism 
^stem Committee to Study 
^P^ovements in Marketability 
Bank Agricultural Paper 
Resent at ive, Working Group of 
ePuty Ministers of the Group 
°r Ten (for 
international 
Monetary cooperation) 
Bis s t i n g s 
ittee on Travel 
Reserve System Labor 
Nations Panel 
i-ttee on (Reserve Barik) 
Sanization, Compensation 
Building Plans 
Sy s t 
v. ein Committee on Employee 
benefits 
Bo ^ ^ economic consultants 
Pl,°gram 
eaSur 
New 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Mitchell 
(Chairman) 
Governor Sheehan 
Governor Bucher 
Governor Daane 
Governor Daane 
Governor Daane 
(Chairman) 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sheehan 
Governor Daane 
Governor Bucher 
Governor Sheehan 
(Chairman) 
Governor Daane 
Governor Bucher 
Governor Sheehan 
(Chairman) 
Governor Daane 
Governor Bucher 
Previous 
Same 
Governor Mitchell 
(Chairman) 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Sheehan 
Governor Mitchell 
Same 
Same 
Same 
Same 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
(Chairman) 
Governor Brimme.r 
Governor Daane 
Governor Sheehan 
Governor Maisel 
(Chairman) 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Daane 
Governor Sheehan 
y consultants program 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Mitchell 

- 3 -
1 1 3 9 
New 
Previous 
Conference of Governors of the 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Mtichell 
Central Banks of the Western 
hemisphere 
Fed oral Reserve Defense Planning 
Alt 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Same 
ernate to Chairman on National 
Advisory Council on Inter-
Rational Monetary and Financial 
^Preventative, Economic Policy 
Governor Brimmer 
Same 
Committee (under OECD) 
Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program 
teoval of certain classes of 
foreign banking applications 
^ e r delegated authority 
Governor Brimmer 
Same 
Governor Brimmer 
Same 
internal administrative 
policies 
SuPs:?vision of the Board's budget 
^^ management improvement 
^ogram 
(i) Approval of changes in 
Board budget w i t h i n limits 
specified b y the Board and 
Chairman 
Chairman of the Steering 
Committee for the manage-
ment improvement program 
Chairman of the Management 
Development Committee 
Governor Sheehan 
Same 
Governor Sheehan 
Same 
Mi 
r a l Reserve labor relations 
S e r v e Bank computer uses 
Administrative Board 
x t h e Retirement Plan 
Administrative Board 
t h e Thrift Plan 
Governor Sheehan 
Governor Sheehan 
Governor Bucher 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Bucher 
Governor Maisel 
ij f
1>elations and public 
0relation programs 
Governor Bucher 
