FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
June 21, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

1557 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 21, 1971. The Board met in the Special Library 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
2/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Mrs. Hobbs and Mrs. Koester of the Office of the 
Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reported on matters of interest to the Federal 
Reserve System presently being considered by the Congress. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff attendance. 
Governor Brimmer referred to discussion he had had with a Treasury 
official regarding proposed legislation being considered in the House of 
Representatives that among other things would require export credit to be 
1/ Withdrew during economic and financial review. 
2/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1558 
6/21/71 
-2-
exempted from the purview of the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint 
Program. The Treasury official had suggested that the Board consider 
changing the program to exempt such credit, if it should become clear 
that otherwise such an exemption would be written into the law. Governor 
Brimmer said that his purpose at this time was simply to alert the Board 
to this development. He had asked Mr. Cardon to endeavor to ascertain 
whether legislation embodying the exemptive feature seemed likely to be 
favored in the Senate if it should be passed by the House. 
Mr. Stoffels of the Research Division then briefed the Board on 
recent stock market developments, as described in a memorandum from the 
Capital Markets Section dated June 18, 1971, a copy of which has been 
placed in the Board's files. 
Governor Brimmer noted that at a recent luncheon with some Board 
ibi 
: . 
ip-jsr io. 
• 
*- — i 
-
members former Chairman Martin had expressed concern that significant 
"back office" bookkeeping problems in connection with securities trans-
actions could re-emerge if stock market trading volume continued heavy. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the staff prepare a memorandum on the 
matter that could be passed on to Mr. Martin. 
It also was reported that the Board's staff and staff of the 
other Federal banking agencies had met with staff of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission regarding undue delays that reportedly had been occur-
ring in banks in functioning stock transfers, and that the possibility of 
approaching this problem through bank supervisory channels was being 
considered. 

1559 
6/21/71 
-3-
It was agreed that the staff would prepare a paper such as sug-
gested by Governor Brimmer, based on available information. Some doubt 
was expressed, however, that the Federal Reserve was in a position to 
exert effective leadership in an effort to resolve the paperwork problem. 
All members of the staff with the exception of Messrs. Holland 
and Partee withdrew at this point. 
Nassau branches. Governor Mitchell raised informally the question 
of possible further exploration of the tax consequences associated with 
the operation of Nassau branches by U.S. banks. After some discussion it 
was understood that Governor Mitchell would be in touch with Dr. Israel 
Labovitz, who had been the Board's consultant on the bank tax study, with 
a view to ascertaining whether or not further study of the tax aspects of 
the Nassau branch question might be useful, and if so whether there was 
,< or: iuU 
i ' i 
\ - . 
' 
'y 
• 
. / 
an appropriate outside consultant who might be asked to undertake it. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
