Minutes for December 9, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement with respect 
to any of the entries in this set of minutes in the record of 
policy actions required to be maintained pursuant to section 10 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If you were 
not present, your initials will indicate only that you have seen 
the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maiseill; ' 
Governor Brimmer 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

3 3 J 2 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, December 9, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
were present. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion of North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, North Carolina, to 
establish a branch in London, England. A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of National 
Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, to establish a branch in Frankfurt, 

3328 
12/9/71 
-2-
West Germany. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to BankAmerica Corpora-
tion, San Francisco, California, granting consent to the acquisition 
of shares of a commercial finance and leasing company, tentatively 
designated North Continent Capital Limited, to be formed in Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Report on competitive factors. The Board unanimously approved 
the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Peoples 
Bank of Durant, Durant, Mississippi, with Merchants and Farmers Bank, 
Kosciusko, Mississippi, in which the conclusion read as follows: 
• 
! 
•» ? 
• * v 
There is a small amount of competition existing between 
Peoples Bank of Durant and Merchants and Farmers Bank, 
Kosciusko, and there is some potential for increased com-
petition between them. The proposal would further strengthen 
the position of the dominant bank in the area and the overall 
competitive effect of the proposal would be adverse. 
Chemical New York Corporation. In a memorandum dated November 10, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation presented the applica-
tion of Chemical New York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to Eastern National Bank of Long Island, 
Smithtown, Suffolk County, New York. The Division recommended approval, 
as did the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 

3329 
12/9/71 
-3-
However, several members of the Board indicated that they had 
reservations about approving the application, since the applicant's 
tender offer to stockholders involved payment of a premium that 
appeared to be extremely high. Questions were raised whether the 
premium reflected a payment for monopoly power and whether de novo 
entry would be preferable to the proposed acquisition, particularly 
for a bank the size of Chemical. 
- 
; • -. 
I." J i 
' 
t tl !. • ' - ' >• ' 
CC.'J 
- ' ^ •'" • ' . ., ' 
' • 'At," - .E 
Further discussion indicated that the members present were 
about evenly divided on this case and action was deferred until 
Chairman Burns could be present. 
State National Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated November 24, 1971, presented the 
application of State National Bancshares, Inc., El Paso, Texas, to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of the 
successor by merger to The State National Bank of El Paso. As an inci-
dent to the merger the applicant would also acquire indirect control 
of 100 per cent of the voting shares of The Flory Company, El Paso, 
which owns or controls 30.07 per cent of the shares of Bassett National 
Bank of El Paso, 24.99 per cent of the shares of Citizens State Bank 
of Ysleta, El Paso, and 24.27 per cent of the shares of The First 
National Bank of Fabens, Fabens, Texas. In addition to these banking 
Interests, the applicant would acquire 28.43 per cent ownership in the 
Charles Bassett Center, Inc., El Paso, a real estate leasing business, 

3330 
12/9/71 
-4-
and 11.94 per cent interest in the Darbyshire Steel Company, Inc., 
El Paso, a steel fabricating company, both of which are presently held 
by The Flory Company. 
There followed a general discussion of the relationships 
involved in the case, including control of both banking and nonbanking 
interests as they had been exercised by The Flory Company. Several 
questions were raised, not only from the standpoint of action to be 
taken on the pending application, but also in terms of the legality 
of the situation that existed at the present time. The staff was 
requested to study further the various questions that had been raised 
and to report back to the Board before further consideration of the 
application. It also was requested that the staff make a study of the 
extent of concentration in Texas banking. 
United Missouri Bancshares. In a memorandum dated November 24, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of 
the application of United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, 
Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank of Jacomo, Blue Springs, Missouri. 
The applicant had offered to purchase the bank at a price equal to 
approximately 200 per cent of the bank's book value, and the facts of 
record clearly suggested that the bank's charter was obtained for the 
sole purpose of selling to a holding company. The memorandum noted 
the objections expressed by State Banking authorities with respect to 
speculative motives in obtaining the bank charter. 

3331 
12/9/71 
-5-
Discussion indicated that a majority of the members present 
were disposed to deny the application, since denial might help to cur-
tail any trend toward speculative dealings in bank charters that might 
be developing. However, questions were raised about the specific grounds 
for denial. 
The Board deferred action on the application and asked that the 
staff prepare a denial order for consideration at a later meeting. 
Emergency reaction programs. In view of increasing frequency 
°f civil disorders and pursuant to the discussion at the Board meeting 
on March 23, 1971, the staff had been requested to prepare guidelines 
to assist the Reserve Banks in developing comprehensive emergency reac-
tion programs. These guidelines had been prepared and were attached to 
a memorandum from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated 
December 6, 1971. 
The Board unanimously approved adoption of the guidelines for 
transmittal to the Federal Reserve Banks, subject to certain editorial 
changes and review by Governor Mitchell. A copy of the letter subse-
quently sent to the Federal Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 4; 
a copy of the guidelines has been placed in the Board's files. 
' 
! ! 
1 
The meeting then adjourned. 

• » > • • 
O O O v W 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
12/9/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N B E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 9, 1971 
Carolina National Bank 
0. Box 120 
Charlotte, North Carolina 
28201 
Gentl emen: 
C a
 
T h e B o a r c l o f Governors grants its permission to North 
Pro 
i n a N a f c i o n a l B a n k > Charlotte, North Carolina, pursuant to the 
^ visions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish 
s
u
~ 
in London, England, and to operate and maintain such branch 
Ject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
b 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
shall168S ° n ° r b e f o r e D e c e m b e r l> 1972, all rights granted hereby 
1 be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
anted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Re 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
f u ^ r V e Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, 
B o a ^ h i n g information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
tio 
S h o u l d a l s o b e Promptly informed of any future change in loca-
of the b ranch in London. 
fundo 
W i t h r e s P e c t t o t h e establishment of foreign branches, 
ca . S Pr°vided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
a 8 g t a l > advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
H e w t S f ° r p u r P ° s e s o f t h e foreign credit restraint effort. 
In 
ir\v 
t h e B o a r d ' s concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
Vi tu S t : m e n t s o n t h e balance of payments, the above consent is given 
t h e understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
inium reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 

3333 
North Carolina National Bank 
-2-
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
Squired will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to North Carolina National Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
12/9/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R S E S P O N U E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B D A R D 
December 9, 1971 
National Bank of Detroit 
Woodward at Fort Street 
Box 116 
Detroit, Michigan 48232 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors grants its permission to National 
Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in 
Frankfurt, Germany, and to operate and maintain such branch subject 
t o the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
Slanted will automatically terminate on that date0 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Frankfurt. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
CaPital., advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
f°r purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
° n the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reli-
ance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. 

3335 
National Bank of Detroit 
- 2 -
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required will be 
made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply 
to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3336 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
12/9/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H C 
H O A R D 
December 9, 1971 
^ankAmerica Corporation 
Bank of America Center 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 29, 1971, the 
Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions 
Section 4(c)13 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
tended, and Section 222.4(f) of Regulation Y, for BankAmerica 
Corporation to purchase and hold 49 per cent of the shares of a 
commercial finance and leasing company, tentatively designated 
North Continent Capital Limited ("NCC"), to be formed in Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada, at a cost of approximately $1,000,000. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company, NCC shall 
c°nfine its activities to international or foreign banking and 
°ther international or foreign financial operations. In addition, 
BankAmerica Corporation shall furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of NCC as it may require from time to time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

il'--- V 
3337 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 4 
12/9/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAl. C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E B O A R D 
January 5, 1972 
i 
I 
i* I-
In order to assure that Federal Reserve Banks are ready 
^t all times to effectively handle any physical security emergen-
cies, the Board has approved "Guidelines for Development of 
Comprehensive Emergency Reaction Programs in Offices of the 
Federal Reserve System," prepared by the Division of Bank Opera-
tions. 
A copy of the Guidelines is enclosed for your offices, 
Please have any needed improvements made in your emergency pre-
paredness programs. 
Very truly yours, 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Enclosure 
(Banks and branches) 
T O THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND THE VICE 
PRESIDENTS 
IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 
. • 
