609 
V;. ; 
r 
. 
Minutes for 
November 19, 1968 
To: 
Membe rs of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 1/ 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
f-i^B. 
ft 
l/k 
"J 
Y - h , 
A V J ' p -
m 
f 
1/ Meeting with the Federal Advisory Council 

A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board 
Room of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C., at 
10-30 a.m. on Tuesday, November 19, 1968 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr, Sherrill 
Mr 
Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs, Simmen, Still, Mayer, Wilkinson, 
Craft, Kennedy, Fox, Nason, Conn, 
Stewart, and Larkin, Members of the 
Federal Advisory Council from the 
First, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, 
Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, 
Eleventh, and Twelfth Federal Reserve 
Districts, respectively 
Mr. John E. Gray, Member-elect of the 
Federal Advisory Council from the 
Eleventh District 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of 
the Council 
Chairman Martin noted that Messrs 
Simmen, Still, and 
Stewart would conclude their service on the Council at the end of 
« ' : 
' S ' I . : V 5 y f 4 Y * „ j 
this year and, on behalf of the Board, expressed appreciation for 
their contributions 

11/19/68 
-2-
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general 
economic outlook for late 1968 and early 
1969? Are there any indications that the 
midyear tax increase is affecting consumer 
spending or business policies and plans, 
or that the measures with respect to lim-
itations on Government spending are having 
an impact? 
The Council expects economic activity and the level 
of business in general to continue to rise in the weeks ahead 
and in the early months of 1969, but that the rate of growth 
will lessen. 
There is little persuasive evidence that the 
midyear tax increase has yet significantly affected consumer 
spending or business policies and plans. However, most mem-
bers of the Council believe that the tax increase will tend 
to moderate both consumer spending and business investment. 
There is some evidence, though it tends to be somewhat ob-
scured, that the limitations on Government spending are 
having an impact in some areas. 
In response to a question, President Mayer said there were 
no substantial differences of views within the Council regarding 
the answer that had been given. 
Chairman Martin inquired whether it was believed that the 
slowdown, if it came, would occur as early as the Christmas season. 
President Mayer responded that he would not be prepared to pinpoint 
the time. Some members of the Council, he said, were inclined to 
expect a later emergence of the slowdown than others. In his own 
view, it would come later than the Christmas period. 
Mr. Conn said he did not believe there would be any sig-
nificant slowdown for the first few months of 1969; too much needed 
to be done and demands were too strong. 

4018 
11/19/68 
-3-
Mr. Larkin remarked that it was hard to believe that factors 
such as the shift in Government receipts and expenditures and the 
coming increase in Social Security taxes would not have an impact. 
However, his own view was that a slowdown would not occur until 
well into 1969-
Mr. Kennedy noted the tremendous inflationary pressures 
present in the economy. Nevertheless, it seemed reasonable to 
believe that the fiscal actions taken would have some effect in 
reducing the rate of growth. It was important to bear in mind 
that what was being talked about was not a contraction but a 
moderation of the rate of growth. As for timing, some gloominess 
in the period after the first of the year was usual, and there 
were uncertainties in terms of changes that would occur, such as 
the coming into office of a new Administration. 
B. What indications do Council members have 
from customer contacts regarding capital 
investment spending in the year ahead? 
Is more or less external financing than 
recently likely to be required for such 
spending? 
i ! O i i £ V •- L'l.ljtt;' -
S
J>C 
»v' I, 
.\i ' »UC'J>i.
v
? £ 
/*,» 
Customer contacts of most of the Council members 
suggest that capital investment spending in the year ahead 
will increase moderately or show no significant change. 
Council members from two districts expect capital invest-
ment spending to show some decline. 
No major change in the level of external financing 
is expected in the year ahead. 

11/19/68 
-4-
Mr. Simmen commented that he was one of the members who 
expected a decline in capital investment spending, this view 
being based on a survey of more than 500 manufacturing firms in 
New England that accounted for 24 per cent of total manufacturing 
employment. That survey suggested a decline next year in the 
order of 5 per cent. Mr., Fox was identified as the other member 
who believed capital spending would decline. 
Mr. Craft said that an increase in the level of external 
financing appeared likely in Birmingham and Atlanta, which were 
experiencing rapid growth. Elsewhere in the District such a 
trend was not foreseen. 
2. Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the 
probable strength of business loan demand 
in the months ahead? 
What kinds of customer 
reactions have developed to the prevailing 
"split" prime rate? 
Most members of the Council expect business loan 
demand to show greater than seasonal strength through the 
remainder of the year. As the more restrictive fiscal 
policy begins to have greater impact, some members of the 
Council believe that there will be a modest slowing of 
loan demand in the first half of 1969. 
In general, because the spread was so small, there 
was little reaction to the "split" prime rate. 
President Mayer commented that few banks of any consequence 
had departed from the generally prevailing prime rate. 

40 
11/19/68 
-5-
Chairman Martin inquired whether there was any feeling 
that split rates might recur, and responses indicated that if 
there should be a recurrence it probably would be of relatively 
short duration. 
President Mayer added that although some people professed 
to believe that the prime rate was a thing of the past, he did not 
subscribe to that view. Such a device was necessary, for example, 
in order to set up a revolving credit that converted to a term 
loan. 
B. In view of the prospects for exceptionally 
heavy mortgage loan demand, especially in 
the income-property area, does the Council 
believe that banks will significantly in-
crease their takings of mortgages in 1969? 
A majority of the members of the Council believe 
that banks will not significantly increase their takings 
of mortgages in 1969. However, several members of the 
Council indicated that mortgage takings by banks would 
increase in 1969, particularly in view of the growing com-
mitment of commercial banks to urban rehabilitation. 
President Mayer said that the Council had been about evenly 
divided, five members present feeling that banks would increase 
their mortgage takings in 1969, particularly in view of the growing 
commitment of banks to urban rehabilitation. 
This was an undertaking 
toward which all of the banks with which Council members were asso-
ciated appeared to feel a deep responsibility. The American Bankers 
jiOl 
• 
• •••.•• 
• . i 
i ) . 
Association, through a special committee, was doing a good job in 
making banks aware of the job to be done. 

4021 
11/19/68 
-6-
In response to a question by Governor Mitchell, President 
Mayer said he did not believe those members who expected greater 
takings of mortgages predicated that view on the prospect of a 
relative weakness of loan demand. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether it might not be expected, 
however, that the share of the mortgage market held by banks would 
tend to creep up in reflection of a more aggressive attitude engen-
dered by rate influences. 
Mr. Still commented that it was true, at his bank, that 
improved rates were beginning to make mortgages a more attractive 
investment. 
They had become about as desirable as tax-exempt 
securities. 
Other Council members agreed, but in terms that 
mortgages were now just barely competitive with tax-exempts. 
Mr. Simmen remarked that if there was a reduction in Treasury 
borrowing and less demand for bank credit, some additional funds 
should be freed for the mortgage market. 
Mr. Kennedy said that his bank had continued to increase 
its mortgage loans, even when mortgage rates were not particularly 
attractive, because of its policy to support that field, especially 
in terms of urban properties 
Now that better rates prevailed, 
mortgages were a much more attractive investment, but the bank's 
policy was one that continued regardless of rates. 

11/19/68 
-7-
Governor Maisel observed that the most notable surge in 
the last six months had been in tax-exempt securities, and 
Mr. Kennedy expressed the view that that was where the bulk of 
the funds would go if there was an easing of loan demand. 
The 
heavy volume of issues coming to market would tend to keep rates up 
C. What is the Council's view regarding 
current and prospective inflows of 
consumer-type time deposits? 
Has the 
tax increase had any noticeable effect 
on such flows? 
Consumer-type time deposits continue to increase, 
but only at a moderate rate, and most members of the 
Council look for little or no improvement in the months 
ahead. The factors accounting for this opinion include 
the increase in Social Security taxes beginning January 1 
and the adjustment in the surtax liability because of 
insufficient withholdings. 
The Council believes that 
the tax increase has resulted in some reduction in the 
inflow of consumer-type time deposits. 
There was no significant discussion of this topic. 
D. How would the Council assess the experience 
of member banks thus far with the new methods 
of computing reserve requirements under the 
amendment to Regulation D that became effec-
tive September 12, 1968? 
Although all member banks have not completely adjusted 
to the new methods of computing reserve requirements under 
the amendment to Regulation D, the Council believes that 
bankers generally have been favorably impressed with the new 
procedure. 
There was no significant discussion of this topic. 
E 
What response, if any, in banker plans have 
Council members observed to the Board's action 
allowing State member banks to own and operate 
certain kinds of subsidiary corporations and 
loan production offices? 

11/19/68 
-8-
The Council believes that the Board's decision to 
allow State member banks to own and operate certain kinds 
of subsidiary corporations and loan production offices was 
welcomed by the vast majority of bankers. There have been 
some differences in the interpretation by State authorities 
as to whether these offices constitute branches which have 
limited the impact of the ruling. 
President Mayer commented that he believed the ruling had 
been a step in the right direction, one that would be beneficial to 
the image of the Federal Reserve. 
In response to a question by Governor Mitchell regarding the 
attitude of State supervisory authorities toward the interpretation 
on loan production offices, Mr. Craft noted that the Florida banking 
authorities regarded such offices as branches, which were not allowed 
in the State. Mr. Stewart commented that a similar situation pre-
vailed in Texas. Mr. Wilkinson indicated that the attitude in 
Virginia was that such offices were not essentially different from 
traveling representatives operating from hotels. Mr. Fox observed 
that the State Commissioner in Missouri had challenged the ruling, 
which was odd because he had never challenged the mortgage company 
operations of Mr. Fox's bank. 
Chairman Martin withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
F. What comments or suggestions do Council 
members have regarding regulatory pro-
visions the Board might issue in imple-
mentation of the recently enacted 
legislation concerning regulation of 
advertising of rates of interest on 
deposits? 

4024 
11/19/68 
-9-
The members of the Council have no specific 
suggestions to the Board regarding regulatory pro-
visions to be issued in implementation of the recently 
enacted legislation concerning regulation of advertising 
of rates of interest on deposits. However, the Council 
would urge that the regulations provide general guide-
lines rather than lengthy, detailed requirements. 
The 
objective should be to prevent the use of statements 
which may mislead the public. Bankers in general 
strongly believe that similar regulations should be 
applicable to all savings and thrift institutions. 
President Mayer said that the Council was concerned about 
advertisements that stressed the yield on a certificate of deposit 
if held for a long period of years, with only passing reference 
to the annual interest rate 
The Council did not believe such 
advertising was desirable, because it reflected adversely not 
only the bank that resorted to such advertising but also the 
banking industry generally. 
It was felt that such practices 
should be stopped. 
The principal emphasis of the Council, President Mayer 
added, was on the need to prohibit advertising that would mislead 
the public and to subject thrift institutions to restrictions com-
parable to those placed on banks. 
In response to a question on the latter point, Governor 
Robertson said he believed that the attitude of the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board, which would prescribe regulations for savings and 
loan associations under Federal supervision, would be cooperative. 
The Board's staff had prepared a draft of amendment to Regulation Q, 

4025 
11/19/68 
-10-
Payment of Interest on Deposits, which he felt was consistent 
with the views expressed by the Council. If such a regulation 
were approved by the Board of Governors, the Federal Deposit 
» 
Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, he 
believed that as much would have been accomplished in this broad 
area as was possible without going into great detail. 
Mr. Wilkinson expressed agreement that the subject should 
be approached in broad terms; the conspicuous exceptions could be 
dealt with without much trouble. 
Mr. Conn inquired whether the Board considered it manda-
tory to adopt regulations, and Governor Robertson replied that, 
while it was not mandatory, he personally believed it was c!es:lrabJe, if 
the regulations were of the right kind. If the agencies failed to 
take any action by way of issuance of regulations, he thought they 
would run into real difficulties in future appearances before 
• i 
i • 
Congressional committees. 
,: • i 
'r. , v 
. 
Mr, Conn then commented on supervisory methods employed 
to control advertising practices followed by banks in the past 
and expressed the view that those methods had worked quite satis-
fa ctorily. While regulations couched in broad terms might provide 
useful guidelines for the formulation of decisions, he felt it 
would be almost necessary to use a case-by-case approach in 
administering such guidelines. 

40J28 
11/19/68 
-11-
President Mayer inquired whether the proposed regulations 
would affect long-term guarantees of a certain rate of interest, 
in response to which Governor Robertson brought out that under the 
present terms of Regulation Q such guarantees stood even if the 
maximum permissible interest rates were revised downward. The Board 
had the power to require that deposit contracts be brought into 
conformity if the maximum rates were reduced, but as a matter of 
policy it had taken the position that outstanding contracts should 
not have to be adjusted. 
3. Balance of payments. 
A, How does the Council appraise the outlook 
for the remainder of the year for (1) 
demands for Euro-dollar loans at foreign 
branches of U.S. banks, (2) Euro-dollars 
advanced by branches to home offices, and 
(3) direct borrowings from foreign banks 
by U.S. banks (i.e., not through foreign 
branches)? 
(1) The Council anticipates a seasonal increase in 
the demand for Euro-dollar loans at foreign branches of U.S. 
banks, reflecting in part year-end borrowing by U.S. corpora-
tions as they adjust their direct investment positions. 
(2) and (3) 
Changes in the volume of Euro-dollars advanced 
by branches to home offices, as well as direct borrowings 
from foreign banks by U.S. banks (i.e., not through foreign 
branches), will be largely determined by the relative cost 
of these funds vis-a-vis other sources 
The relative tight-
ness of the U S . money markets will also be a factor deter-
mining the volume of these transactions. If conditions 
remain about what they are today, the amount of Euro-dollars 
advanced by branches to home offices or direct borrowings 
from foreign branches are not likely to change appreciably 
during the remainder of this year. 

4027 
11/19/68 
-12-
Governor Mitchell inquired whether, in view of the substan-
tial increase in Euro-dollar borrowings in recent years, it would 
seem desirable to set any limitations in terms of the banking system 
or individual banks. Some banks obviously had large holdings of 
Euro-dollars. 
President Mayer said that, while the Council had not discussed 
such a possibility, his own bank kept quite a careful balance between 
funds obtained from the Euro-dollar market and other sources. 
Mr. Kennedy commented that his institution also maintained 
its own limitations on Euro-dollars, these being changed as conditions 
changed. Of course, having too many funds in almost the demand area 
was a cause for concern. The need to meet commitments already made 
was the force that might cause an increase in Euro-dollars between 
now and the end of the year. By and large, his bank regarded the 
choice between Euro-dollars and CD's as almost dependent on rates, 
aside from the question of maturity. 
> 
> 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the decision might not 
also give weight to the fact that in the Euro-dollar market there 
was no lender of last resort. 
Mr. Kennedy replied that all of the major banks had been 
concerned about whether they could get Euro-dollars at all. 
They 
tried to keep a close check on developments in the Euro-dollar 
market and were aware of their vulnerability. 

. 
m
z
s 
11/19/68 
-13-
Governor Sherrill said he had received the impression that 
bankers felt the Euro-dollar market was becoming less volatile, 
and Mr. Kennedy noted that the volume had held up both in good 
times and bad. President Mayer commented that perhaps the banking 
community was becoming accustomed to dealing in Euro-dollars as 
an alternate source of money. Most banks restricted their use of 
Euro-dollars in proportion to their CD's, although he agreed that 
the proportion was tending to rise. Mr. Kennedy observed that, 
while a bank might not always be able to issue CD's, according 
to the experience thus far it could always obtain Euro-dollars, 
at a price. 
In response to a question by Governor Mitchell, Mr. Kennedy 
said the Euro-dollar market apparently was tending to lengthen a 
little, but the rates were high. Longer-term money was available, 
but only if one was willing to pay the price. 
B. Do Council members have any comments 
or suggestions with respect to a 
voluntary foreign credit restraint 
program for 1969? 
The members of the Council would favor (1) the 
exclusion of export financing from the guidelines, and 
(2) the further easing of the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint program for 1969, with the objective of 
eliminating the program as soon as possible. 
President Mayer said there was some feeling that others 
were being given relief from the restrictions while the banks were 
not. It was easy to regulate banks, and therefore there might be 
a tendency to treat them a little differently. 

11/19/68 
-14-
In response to a question, Governor Robertson said that 
the Board had not yet decided on guidelines for 1969. He noted 
that the determination of those guidelines was not entirely a 
matter for the Board's decision, and it was possible that whatever 
was decided upon might be changed by the incoming Administration. 
His own view was that it would be necessary to go slow in eliminat-
ing the foreign credit restraint program as long as the balance of 
payments problem remained fundamentally serious. He noted that the 
easing announced by the Department of Commerce had actually been 
very slight. 
There were others who shared the view of the Council that 
export financing should be excluded, Governor Robertson continued. 
Perhaps that view was correct, but he did not think so. He believed 
that if export financing were excluded a completely different type 
of program would be necessary. He would rather see the present 
program dropped than to see its effectiveness undermined. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the program, originally 
announced as temporary, had been in effect for four years. 
This 
type of program,which admittedly papered over the fundamental 
problems, tended to become more discriminatory and inequitable 
with the passage of time. On the other hand, it could hardly be 
abandoned unless something was available to replace it. He would 
like to see other types of measures explored that might accomplish 

11/19/68 
-15-
the purpose of the program more effectively. 
The balance of 
payments problem was a difficult one to solve, and it had been 
approached in a temporizing way through a device that was no 
longer appropriate. 
Governor Robertson agreed with the view that something 
must be substituted if the current program was to be eliminated. 
President Mayer said there was general agreement within 
the Council that the balance of payments problem must be solved 
in one way or another. It would not simply disappear. 
4. The Board would be interested in any 
comments the Council members might have 
on the draft of the proposed regulation 
to implement the Truth in Lending Title 
of the Consumer Credit Protection Act 
that was published on October 16. 
The Council believes that the appropriate staff 
personnel in the larger banks have submitted comments 
on the draft of the proposed regulation to implement 
the Truth in Lending Title of the Corcjiuver Credit Protection 
Act. Some members of the Council are today submitting 
additional memoranda on this subject to the Secretary 
of the Board. 
The members of the Council were dismayed at the 
length and great detail of the proposed regulation. 
In 
the Council's judgment it would have been preferable if 
the regulation could have been written in more general 
terms and substantially reduced in length. 
President Mayer commented that much of the field covered 
by the regulation was extremely technical. Although members of 
the Council were familiar with the subject at the policy level, 
they had had little experience at the level of day-to-day opera-
tions and felt somewhat at a loss to offer constructive comments. 

.. 4031 
11/19/68 
-16-
They were bothered by the length of the regulation and assumed that 
it may have resulted from the receipt of advice from numerous out-
side sources as to points that should be covered. 
Governor Robertson remarked that the Council members were 
not alone in thinking the regulation was too long and complicated. 
However, that had not resulted from receiving a great volume of 
outside advice as much as from having the best available technical 
experts frame the regulation so as to apply to all kinds of busi-
nesses. Also, about a third of the regulation as published for 
comment consisted of technical provisions that would be used only 
by groups compiling interest rate tables. It was planned to 
separate that part in a supplement, which would be provided only 
to those who wanted it. 
Many comments on the draft regulation had been received, 
Governor Robertson said, and the staff was trying to take them 
into account in such a way that the regulation would not become 
even more lengthy. There had also been suggestions for making 
the regulation less complicated, and every effort would be 
exerted to make it more understandable and easier to apply. 
Governor Robertson then described the time table for 
refining and adopting the regulation and spoke of the effort 
being undertaken, through consultation with professionals in 
such fields as advertising and public relations, to develop 

. 4032 
11/19/68 
-17-
presentations of the substance of the regulation that would be 
understandable to everyone, including small merchants and con-
sumers. It was hoped to enlist organizations such as banker 
groups, trade and credit associations, and chambers of commerce 
in the extensive educational effort that would be necessary. 
The 
thought was to confine the Federal Reserve as much as possible to 
the role of providing leadership in the administration of the 
legislation. 
Mr. Conn inquired why the draft regulation required that 
records of transactions be retained for as long as two years, and 
Governor Robertson responded that this had been specified at the 
request of representatives of some of the enforcement agencies 
who maintained that they would otherwise have an insufficient 
basis for enforcement. However, some changes in the draft regula-
tion were presently under consideration. 
In response to further 
questions by Mr. Conn, he said that film records would be acceptable 
and that in any event the keeping of appropriate records would 
protect the lender or merchant for the purpose of defense against 
any charges that might be brought against him. 
5. The Board would appreciate having the views 
of the Council members as to the prospects for, 
and any legal or other problems seen in, the 
formation of community development corpora-
tions or similar arrangements (either by 
individual banks, groups of banks, or banks 
and other institutions) for the purpose of 
extending financing or real estate develop-
ment assistance to businesses and consumers 
in the economically disadvantaged areas of 
cities. 

4033 
11/19/68 
-18-
Th e experience of the Council members on the 
formation of community development corporations or 
similar arrangements for financing businesses and 
consumers in the economically disadvantaged areas of 
cities has disclosed no important legal problems. 
Bankers generally over the country are coop-
erating in this effort, and broadening their partic-
ipation. The Urban Affairs Committee of the ABA is 
aggressively encouraging banks in this activity. 
President Mayer remarked that his bank's attorneys had 
at first looked rather dubiously at the kind of loans being made, 
one question being whether the joint loans might involve some 
antitrust implications. Also, there seemed to be no doubt but 
that some of the loans would turn out poorly. 
Governors Maisel and Robertson observed that the Council's 
statement apparently focused on joint participation by groups of 
banks in community development efforts. The possible legal problems 
that the Board wished to probe, however, related more to a situation 
where a single bank formed a community development corporation that 
would engage, among other things, in buying, selling, and leasing 
real estate. 
Members of the Council agreed that their statement had been 
addressed primarily to cooperative efforts by banks. 
President 
Mayer said that while his bank had made sure that the community 
development corporation operating in its area had never failed to 
get the construction money it needed, the bank itself had no equity 

4034 
11/19/68 
-19-
interest in the corporation 
Mr. Wilkinson commented that in 
Richmond equity capital had been contributed to a nonprofit 
organization by both banks and industrial corporations. 
The 
equity capital had provided a base for obtaining Federal funds. 
The program's thrust was to find housing for those in the $3,000 
to $7,000 income bracket who, in the absence of help, would 
become frustrated and move back to a lower level. 
Governors Maisel and Robertson inquired whether banks 
regarded these community enterprises as strictly nonprofit opera-
tions and whether, if not, legal difficulties were foreseen 
The 
Board's question reflected its desire to facilitate the participa-
tion of banks in community development programs to the greatest 
extent possible, within whatever protective framework was 
necessary to keep problems from developing. 
Members of the Council reiterated that they were aware 
only of efforts being undertaken on a cooperative basis. Mr. Simmen, 
for example, commented that banks in his area were looking into the 
possibility of forming a subsidiary for such operations, 
Mr. Kennedy suggested that more comprehensive information 
could be obtained from the committee of the American Bankers 
Association that had been studying this matter intensively. 
In 
the Chicago area, banks were exploring alternative ways of providing 
equity capital, which was the major problem, and had pledged funds 

. 4035 
11/19/68 
-20-
to insure the availability of loans, even though there was no 
legal problem insofar as the making of loans by individual banks 
was concerned. So far as equity capital was concerned, the founda-
tion route was a possibility, or a corporation of some kind to 
which area banks would contribute capital, but it was not contem-
plated that individual banks would set up their own development 
subsidiaries. 
Mr 
Conn inquired whether there was some difference of 
opinion between the Comptroller and the Board on the establishment 
by a bank of a wholly-owned subsidiary that would buy, develop, 
lease, and sell real estate for urban rehabilitation purposes. 
The answer given was that the Comptroller had ruled that a bank 
could purchase the stock of such a subsidiary, based on the concept 
of charitable contributions, as long as it wrote off the investment 
on its books. Members of the Council indicated that they were not 
familiar with the ruling in question. 
Governor Robertson reiterated that the Board wanted to 
make sure that whatever steps were taken to enable banks to 
participate in meeting the problems of urban rehabilitation were 
properly designed for the purpose. If it seemed necessary to 
request legislation to facilitate the effort, that would be sought. 

4036 
11/19/68 
-21-
6. The Board would be interested in any comments 
Council members might have on the draft of 
the Board's proposed regulation to implement 
the Bank Protection Act of 1968 that has been 
released for publication on November 8, 
The Council believes that it would be preferable if 
the Board's regulation to implement the Bank Protection Act 
of 1968 were written in the form of broad guidelines. 
These 
guidelines would permit flexibility dictated by size, loca-
tion and other factors, rather than prescribe detailed 
technical protective and security measures required of every 
bank. 
Individual banks would be expected to report only that 
they are in general compliance with the regulation. 
Some members of the Council have asked appropriate 
staff personnel in their institutions to comment in writing 
directly to the Board or through their local Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
President Mayer said the Council was concerned about the 
public relations aspects of the proposed regulation from the System's 
standpoint. There were vast differences, he pointed out, among 
banking offices. A large downtown office and a small country office 
had different protection problems; any set of rules that would fit 
one would be inappropriate for the other. This philosophy was at 
variance with the regulation as drafted, which contained many specific 
requirements for equipment and protective devices. 
Governor Robertson said that the Board wanted the Council's 
frank reaction and was glad that some of the members also were 
having suggestions submitted in writing by their institutions. 
He 
described how the draft regulation had been developed in consulta-
tion with organizations such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 

11/19/68 
-22-
the Secret Service, and the equipment industry, pursuant to a 
statute that contained a mandate to prescribe minimum standards. 
At various places in the regulation, allowance was made for 
"something comparable" to the equipment specified. 
The effort had been, Governor Robertson added, to arrive 
at requirements with which almost all large banks and most of 
their branches would be found to have complied already. 
While 
such institutions would have to make an initial report, further 
reports would be necessary only when a criminal act had occurred. 
President Mayer remarked that some institutions had 
shockingly little in the way of safeguards. There were wide 
variations from one bank to another, for example, on cameras and 
how they were maintained. He noted, however, that the requirement 
that a report be made after every robbery was not necessarily a 
light burden, because a large institution with many branches might 
experience numerous robberies. 
Mr. Larkin said he could speak for an area where branch 
banking was the rule and robberies were so frequent that it had 
been estimated that the burden of compiling a report on each one 
would take the full time of one or two men in a single institution. 
Moreover, the nature of the problem, especially in a branch banking 
structure, was such that the kind of regulation proposed—with 
requirements for specific protective devices--was not going to 

4038 
11/19/68 
-23-
contribute constructively toward a solution. He described circum-
stances that contrived to make many such devices of very limited 
value and emphasized that a large branch banking organization had 
to be prepared to deal with different types of problems at each of 
its offices. For such a banking structure, the proposed regulation 
would be impractical and would fail to achieve the desired results. 
Governor Robertson remarked that it would be helpful if 
banks would offer suggestions for a regulation that would be prac-
tical and would carry out the mandate of the law. For better or 
worse, the Bank Protection Act was on the books, and it required 
that regulations be prescribed, 
Mr. Conn commented on the special problem of small banks. 
In the Tenth District, for example, most of the banks that suffered 
robberies were in the suburbs of the larger cities. A great number 
of banks located in small towns had a low incidence of robberies and, 
with total resources typically of no more than $5 million, they would 
find the requirements regarding construction and equipment extremely 
onerous. Then too, some of the provisions of the draft regulation 
- -i • u!"K ley 
i), \ : C* Z-ik'Tt- V •'* ' . . • rV-
could not be complied with by small banks located in communities 
without a local police force. He emphasized that the Council 
realized the difficulty the Board faced in devising a regulation 
11. ' • '»'..*>: 
:• .i ;>»: iccs. 
lIu.-zj 
bv«ji .i i.-tj 
jei;': 
that would carry out the legislative mandate and be constructive. 
-1.:
 
!
 ' , f.h u 
coi *, ' 
is. •}?:••', ih-iK 
i 
v^lics 
Yet he felt it should be possible to set standards without such a 
• .. 
:;v:rJ-iw:n 
ch.it ' infc'Iacionar/ 
i^urai 
itava Ic-.'S'ionnj.L 
• 
' • 
lack of flexibility as in the draft regulation. 

.'•.'4033 
11/19/68 
-24-
President Mayer suggested that the Bank Management Commission 
of the American Bankers Association might be helpful. He and Mr. Conn 
also stressed the desirability of having comparable regulations 
adopted by the several Federal supervisory agencies. 
Governor Robertson stated that the American Bankers Association 
had been asked for help. He described some of the principal differences 
in the outstanding draft regulations, particularly as to reporting 
requirements, and advantages that were seen in the Federal Reserve 
draft. He also spoke of arrangements being considered in an effort 
to bring the regulati ons of the several supervisory agencies more 
closely together. He had requested that a sample of banks be selected 
by each agency and asked to study the application of the regulations 
to their own situations, with the thought that the comparisons made 
would help to promote the greatest possible regulatory uniformity. 
In response to a question by Mr. Nason, he said that critical com-
ments would be welcomed by the Federal Reserve from all classes of 
banks. 
7 
What are the Council's views on monetary 
and credit policy under current circum-
stances? 
The Council believes that a policy of monetary 
and credit restraint is appropriate because of the persis-
tence of the strength of demand and the resulting continued 
upward pressure on prices. There has been a lag between 
changes in fiscal policy and their impact on economic 
activity. The Council, therefore, believes that a policy 
of moderate restraint should be continued until there is 
clear evidence that inflationary pressures have lessened. 

4040 
11/19/68 
-25-
Governor Maisel inquired whether the Council was defining 
the present policy posture as one of moderate restraint, and 
President Mayer replied that the Council's statement was intended 
i 
to convey that impression, 
Governor Robertson commented that the statement appeared 
to indicate that the Council believed the degree of restraint 
being achieved by monetary policy, in the absence of sufficient 
fiscal restraint, at least in terms of consumer spending, would 
suffice to relieve inflationary pressures while maintaining rela-
tively full employment 
President Mayer recalled that at its last meeting the 
Council had been somewhat critical of monetary policy as being a 
little too easy right after the tax increase 
He believed the 
present view was that at the moment the policy posture was right, 
although the Federal Reserve should not take its foot off the brake 
too soon. 
Governor Robertson asked whether the Council would advocate 
pushing down on the brake a little harder, since the economy 
appeared stronger than most observers had expected and inflationary 
pressures were still acute. 
Mr. Wilkinson observed that it was admittedly difficult to 
maintain the same tempo of restraint week after week. The System 
had to feel its way along. The Council was trying to say that the 

11/19/68 
-26-
System should stay within the ranges that had prevailed recently, 
and not ease until inflationary pressures abated. Whether a 
little more restraint would be desirable was hard to say. 
Governor Maisel observed that views had been reported 
at the time of the recent meeting of the Business Council that 
an unemployment rate as high as 5-1/2 per cent would have to be 
tolerated if inflation was to be brought under control and nothing 
else would suffice. He read the Council's statement as indicating 
that it did not consider a sharp increase in the unemployment rate 
to be a necessary goal for monetary policy. 
Mr, Still expressed the view that in present times such a 
solution would be completely unpalatable, and President Mayer said 
he did not think it would be acceptable to either political party. 
Governor Robertson said he did not think it followed that 
a little tightening of monetary policy would produce a high unemploy-
ment rate. 
Governor Maisel agreed. However, some members of the Business 
Council seemed to feel that the goal should be an unemployment rate 
as high as 5-1/2 to 6 per cent and some representatives of large 
banks had been quoted similarly at the time of the ABA convention. 
Mr. Conn observed that there was a fair-sized body of 
opinion to the effect that inflation could not be controlled when 
the unemployment rate was as low as 3.6 per cent. The Advisory 

4042 
11/19/68 
-27-
Counc:'. 1 felt that after the first of the year the increased Social 
Security taxes and the surtax would exert an increasing effect, 
and in view of that the present posture of monetary policy appeared 
to be about right. However, if the expected dampening effect did 
not occur, it might be necessary to put on the brakes a little 
harder. 
Mr. Kennedy said the Council had not gone into the question 
of significant unemployment and instead had looked at the present 
situation and the changes that were foreseen 
His own view was that 
possibly the present monetary policy was not quite restrictive 
enough, although it was difficult to tell. At the time of the last 
meeting he felt that the Federal Reserve had moved toward ease a 
little too fast, apparently in the belief that the fiscal legis-
lation would relieve the existing pressures somewhat. Now it was 
being forecast that perhaps next year conditions would not be so 
strong, but that was not certain and he would want to await further 
developments before making any policy move. 
In response to a request for elaboration of his comment 
regarding monetary restraint and the unemployment rate, Governor 
Robertson said he was sure that if monetary policy was tightened 
sufficiently the unemployment rate would rise. However, he did not 
believe anyone could tell precisely what degree of restraint would 
produce a particular rate, say 5-1/2 per cent. 

4043 
11/19/68 
-28-
Governor Sherrill observed that at its September meeting 
the Council had expressed the view that the reduction of the 
discount rate by 1/4 of 1 per cent might not have been a wise 
move. He wondered if it was now the view of the Council that 
the previous rate should be restored. 
Mr„ Kennedy suggested that it might be better to let the 
present rate stand and make any necessary adjustments through 
other instruments. 
In response to a further question by Governor 
Sherrill, he and several other members said they now felt more 
comfortable with the posture of monetary policy than they had at 
the time of the last meeting. 
Mr. Wilkinson commented that there was a question as to 
what motivated the consumer. If the consumer was motivated by 
the thought that inflation was likely to be a way of life, he 
might continue to spend freely even if increased taxes hit him 
hard. Otherwise, the tax impact was likely to cause a curtail-
ment of spending 
President Mayer said that, pursuant to inquiries by Board 
representatives, the Council had discussed further the possibility 
of shifting to a different pattern of meeting dates that would 
reduce conflicts with meeting schedules it understood were being 
considered by the Federal Open Market Committee, However, it appeared 
that any of the alternatives that had been suggested would involve 

•Hoy. 
a n a l 
11/19/68 
-29-
numerous conflicts with engagements that members of the Council 
must keep, according to the schedules of the present Council 
members„ 
After some discussion of the possible alternatives, Governor 
•'••• 11. ' *y 
Robertson said that in the circumstances the scheduling problem of 
the Federal Open Market Committee would be resolved in some other 
,••7 
V-' ':..•• v 
way. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on February 17-18 
1969-
The meeting then adjourned. 
1
 .! 
j'; : • 
;
 C • " .. ' ?> - J 
:Ll". J . yo.; w' f I. 
• • i 
- 
i v ' . > ' 1 ' •••
 !
 t .•:•„• ... O d u . ,•;;: 
' 
' .< ". cawc 
!.: c
:
 •' ' 
. 
• 
^ 
i y 
f i 
• / ' 
¥
j 
