Minutes for 
May 17, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
k i 

1960 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, May 17, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Messrs. O'Connell and Hooff, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Messrs. Leavitt, Dahl, and Egertson, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Forrestal and Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Fisher and Keir of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Miss McShane and Messrs. Burton, Maguire, and 
Poundstone of the Division of Examinations 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 
Mailable to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
Respective item numbers indicated. 

5/17/67 
-2-
Letter to Marine Midland Trust Company of 
Central New York, Syracuse, New York, approv-
ing the establishment of a temporary branch in 
the Shoppingtown Plaza, Town of DeWitt, and 
commenting on the bank's liquidity and capital 
Positions. 
Letter to Wilmington Trust Company, Wilmington, 
Delaware, approving the establishment of two 
in-town limited service branches. 
Letter to The Ohio Savings & Trust Company, 
New Philadelphia, Ohio, approving the estab-
lishment of an in-town branch and commenting 
°n the bank's capital and liquidity positions. 
Letter to Springfield Marine Bank, Springfield, 
111 inois, approving the establishment of an 
in-town branch. 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, granting extensions of time within 
which to establish branches in Monterey and 
San Jose. 
Letter to Peoples Trust Company of Bergen 
County, Hackensack, New Jersey, approving an 
investment in bank premises and noting plans 
for strengthening the bank's capital position. 
Letter to City State Bank, Ogden, Iowa, approv-
ing retirement of the bank's $50,000 par value 
Preferred stock outstanding. 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, 
New York, approving the organization of a 
corporation under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act to be known as First National City 
Bank (International), San Francisco, California, 
and transmitting a preliminary permit. 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, 
New York, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Djakarta, Republic of Indonesia. 

1962 
5/17/67 
-3-
Request for formal hearing (Item No. 10). Wachovia Bank and 
Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, had made application to 
the Board for permission to establish a branch in Graham, North Carolina. 
The State banking authorities had approved establishment of the branch 
following a public hearing, at which three other banks, including First 
National Bank of Eastern North Carolina, Jacksonville, North Carolina, 
entered strong protests. 
The Jacksonville bank had received approval in January 1966 from 
the Comptroller of the Currency for establishment of a branch in Graham, 
but had been unable to proceed with its plans because an injunction was 
granted by the United States District Court in response to another bank's 
Protest. A second application by the Jacksonville bank for a branch in 
Graham was now pending before the Comptroller. The bank had requested 
that the Federal Reserve afford it an opportunity to present its objec-
tions to Wachovia1s proposed branch and to file a brief in opposition 
to the application; after several postponements, such a meeting was now 
scheduled for May 26 at the Richmond Reserve Bank. 
In a letter to the Reserve Bank, the Jacksonville bank stated 
that "Because of the serious nature of this case, we feel it only fair 
to let you know that it is quite possible that we may resort to litiga-
tion upon the conclusion of this hearing. Therefore we urge you to treat 
°ur request as if it were for a formal hearing, that at the hearing the 
Witnesses be sworn, that witnesses be subjected to cross-examination and 

1963 
5/17/67 
-4-
that findings of fact and conclusions of law be made upon determination 
of the hearing and that we be notified of the decision reached in suffi-
cient time to protect our rights and interests." 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated May 15, 1967, 
from the Division of Examinations setting forth various background 
details bearing upon the request, expressing the view that in the cir-
cumstances it appeared that the originally contemplated procedures (as 
approved by the Board on May 5, 1967) offered full and adequate oppor-
tunity for the Jacksonville bank to present its views, and stating that 
the Division of Examinations and the Legal Division recommended that the 
request for a formal hearing be denied. A draft of letter reflecting 
that decision was attached. 
Mr. O'Connell described the procedural differences between the 
formal hearing that had been requested and the type of presentation 
currently planned; he expressed the view that the latter procedure 
would accord the protesting bank due process of law. He noted that it 
had been learned that the Comptroller of the Currency had granted the 
Jacksonville bank a hearing at regional level regarding its pending 
branch application that had some of the elements of a formal hearing, 
including the swearing of witnesses and conducting of cross-examination 
among all parties present. Despite this information, the Board's staff 
still recommended denial of the present request. If the protesting 
bank should contend in litigation that only a full formal hearing would 

5/17/67 
-5-
satisfy its right to due process of law, a court possibly would hold 
that the lack of certain elements in the proceeding constituted a lack 
°f due process. The court might then itself accord a hearing to the 
bank de novo and instruct the Board to allow a similar hearing in like 
circumstances thereafter. However, a court more probably would find 
that the procedures followed had afforded the bank a sufficient oppor-
tunity to state its case. 
In response to an inquiry by Governor Brimmer regarding the 
reasons he recommended denial, Mr. O'Connell said that because of the 
number of branch applications the Board had to handle he thought it 
would be undesirable to grant a request for a formal hearing that might 
establish a precedent for other such requests. It already took consid-
erable time to complete consideration of branch applications, and the 
observance of hearing formalities would extend that time considerably. 
Moreover, in the absence of a statutory requirement for formal hearings, 
it was his belief that the Board could determine in its discretion what 
type of procedure was most appropriate to afford adequate opportunity 
for presentation of views. In the present case, the Board had available 
the transcript of the hearing held before the North Carolina State Bank-
ing Commission, at which the views of First National Bank of Eastern 
North Carolina and other protesting banks were made fully known, although 
the Commission had not given the right of cross-examination. Under the 
Procedure proposed for the meeting in Richmond, the protesting bank would 

1.965 
5/17/67 
-6-
be given an opportunity to file a brief. The principal element of a 
formal hearing that would be lacking would be the right to examine rep-
resentatives of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company regarding the basis for 
the branch application. Mr. O'Connell believed the Board was entitled 
to draw conclusions of validity and fact on the basis of the applica-
tion, without the help of cross-examination by the opposing bank. 
In response to a question by Governor Maisel, Mr. O'Connell 
described certain litigation regarding the adequacy of procedures the 
Comptroller of the Currency had afforded. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the letter to First National 
Bank of Eastern North Carolina was approved unanimously, subject to cer-
tain editorial changes. A copy of the letter in the form in which it 
Was transmitted is attached as Item No. 10. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
°f Saddleback National Bank, Tustin, California, and Huntington-Valley 
fiank, Huntington Beach, California, into First National Bank of San 
^i-ego, San Diego, California, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition existing 
among Saddleback National Bank, Tustin, Huntington-
Valley Bank, Huntington Beach, and First National 
Bank of San Diego. However, in view of the branch 
banking laws in California, there is potential for 
competition among these banks, and the overall com-
petitive effect of the merger would be slightly 
adverse. 

1966 
5/17/67 
-7-
Application of Marshall & Ilsley (Items 11 and 12). There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on April 24, 1967, of the application of Marshall & Ilsley Bank 
Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire 80 per cent or more 
°f the voting shares of West Suburban Bank, Brookfield, Wisconsin. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement with a sug-
gestion by Governor Maisel for a change in the language of the statement 
at one point, the issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are 
attached as Items 11 and 12. 
Messrs. Holland, Adviser to the Board, and Cardon, Legislative 
Counsel, entered the room at this point and Messrs. O'Connell, Hooff, 
Dahl, Egertson, Forrestal, Noble, Burton, Maguire, and Poundstone and 
Hi ss McShane withdrew from the meeting. 
Reports on housing bills (Items 13 and 14). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated May 12, 1967, from the Division of 
Research and Statistics regarding responses to be made to requests by 
Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency and 
by 
Representative Richard T. Hanna for the Board's views on current 
bills relating to the Federal National Mortgage Association. Chairman 
Sparkman's request referred to S. 1492, a bill developed by the National 
Association of Home Builders, and S. 1493, drafted by the National Asso-
ciation of Real Estate Boards. Representative Hanna's request related 
to similar bills introduced in the House. 

1967 
5/17/67 
-8-
The provisions of the bills of most interest to the Board would 
(1) reorganize the administrative structure of the Federal National 
Mortgage Association, with the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board 
(or another Board member designated by him) serving on the Association's 
revised board of directors, along with the heads (or their designees) 
of the Treasury, Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and Council of Economic 
Advisers, among others; (2) permanently authorize the Federal Reserve 
Banks, under the direction of the Federal Open Market Committee, to buy 
and sell obligations of the Federal National Mortgage Association in the 
open market (at present, under a statute that would expire in September 
1967, the Banks were authorized to buy and sell direct obligations of 
any Federal agency); (3) authorize FNMA to buy and sell conventional 
home mortgages under its secondary market functions (at present, the 
Association could deal only in loans underwritten by the Federal Housing 
Administration or the Veterans Administration); and (4) permit FNMA to 
issue participation certificates or other types of beneficial interests 
in pools of FHA-insured, VA-guaranteed, or conventional mortgages held 
under its secondary market functions. 
Attached to the memorandum were draft replies based on the 
assumption that the Board would prefer to comment on the four provisions 
°f the bills that had been noted in particular, without going into detail 
about other provisions that were of less direct interest to the Board. 
The draft replies would indicate general support for the principle of 

1968 
5/17/67 
-9-
Providing a more comprehensive market for residential mortgages by 
broadening the secondary-market investment and participation powers of 
the Federal National Mortgage Association. (This principle was in 
accord with the recommendations for study and consideration that the 
Board had made in its recent report to the Housing and Urban Affairs 
Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency regarding 
monetary policy and the residential mortgage market.) The draft replies 
would also state that the Board felt strongly that it would be inappro-
priate for any of its members to serve on the reorganized board of 
directors of the Federal National Mortgage Association, and that the 
Board believed it would be premature to enact permanent authority for 
the Federal Reserve Banks to buy and sell the Association's obligations 
ln the open market, in view of current discussion whether or not the 
Present authority in Public Law 89-597 should be continued. 
After introductory comments by Mr. Fisher, Governors Robertson 
and Maisel suggested that, instead of saying that enactment of permanent 
authority for Reserve Bank open market operations in obligations of the 
Federal National Mortgage Association would be premature, the draft let-
ters should indicate that such enactment would be inappropriate. The 
question should be dealt with in the context of the present statute, 
which allowed such operations with respect to all agency issues, rather 
fchan a separate statute that would single out a particular agency. 
Governor Maisel then commented that a basic policy question was 
Presented in whether the Federal National Mortgage Association should 

1969 
5/17/67 
-10-
be authorized to deal in conventional mortgages. Such authority would 
in effect give the Association a mandate to aid mortgages generally, 
whereas presently the Association was authorized to aid only mortgages 
that carried a Government purpose, as signified by the fact of their 
being insured or guaranteed. He was not sure this was a sound proposal. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he shared the concern expressed 
by Governor Maisel. The Federal National Mortgage Association existed 
Primarily for the purpose of aiding Federally underwritten mortgages, 
and such mortgages were underwritten in line with the purposes of Fed-
eral housing policy. The same kind of interlock with public policy was 
n°t found in the case of conventional mortgages. 
Governor Maisel agreed that the proposals involved a major shift 
in the concept of public policy. Their thrust was to say that public 
Policy should be concerned with all mortgages, and it was not clear to 
him whether the Board should support such an expansion in the concept 
°f public policy in this area. 
Governor Brimmer noted that there were various conditions asso-
ciated with the Federal underwriting of mortgages, and he suggested 
that any expansion of the activities of the Federal National Mortgage 
Association to aid other mortgages should extend only to those that met 
specified conditions. 
Governor Robertson asked if Governor Maisel's comments reflected 
a view that, although it would be desirable to have some sort of secondary 

1970 
5/17/67 
-11-
market established for conventional mortgages, that market should not 
be provided by the Federal National Mortgage Association. 
Governor Maisel replied that that was the real question. The 
choice was between a private secondary market and the establishment of 
a secondary market through a Government agency. The question was 
whether the Board should support the idea of a public agency having 
S o much responsibility for conventional mortgages. The American Bankers 
Association had proposed setting up Government supervised and chartered 
Private mortgage organizations rather than expanding the functions of 
the Federal National Mortgage Association. Apparently there would be 
n o element of public subsidy in the ABA proposal. 
Governor Robertson noted that the draft letter to Representative 
Hanna mentioned that the Board had not commented on H.R. 3960, since it 
Was understood that while the American Bankers Association had formerly 
endorsed that proposal, it was now re-examining its position. 
There was agreement with a suggestion by Governor Robertson 
that the sentence to which he had referred be deleted or changed to 
avoid the possible impression that if the American Bankers Association 
again endorsed a proposal such as contained in H.R. 3960, the Board 
a ls 0 would do so. 
In response to a request by Chairman Martin for comments on the 
hroad question Governor Maisel had raised regarding expansion of the 
ScoPe of activities assigned to the Federal National Mortgage Associa-
tion, 
Fisher expressed agreement that the point was significant. 

1971 
5/17/67 
-12-
One problem was that there was now no active secondary market for con-
ventional mortgages, and without public support, perhaps through the 
Federal National Mortgage Association, such a market might never be 
developed. He did not believe that Federally-chartered private mort-
gage companies would be in a position to do the job. It would seem 
that the cost that must be paid to achieve a real step in this direc-
tion would be to provide Government support. He was not sure that an 
active secondary market would result even from the current proposals 
involving the Federal National Mortgage Association. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that it was important to 
have a national secondary market established if the mortgage was ever 
to become an effective market instrument. To that end, he was willing 
consider the possibility of Government subsidy, because he did not 
believe a goai Qf that magnitude could be achieved without it. Like 
Governor Maisel, he was not sure whether the correct route to that goal 
l a y i n secondary market activity by the Federal National Mortgage Asso-
ciation, but he thought that some form of Government assistance probably 
would be required. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the Board's letter, while 
indicating that the Board favored the principle of providing a more 
c°mprehensive market for home mortgages, could suggest that the ques-
ti'0ri whether a secondary market should be provided through the Federal 
National Mortgage Association be made the subject of a broad study by 
Committee. Chairman Martin and Governor Maisel agreed. 

1972 
5/17/67 
-13-
After further discussion during which there was agreement upon 
certain editorial changes in the draft letters, unanimous approval was 
given to the sending of the letters in revised form reflecting the 
Points agreed upon at this meeting. Copies of the letters, as subse-
quently transmitted to Chairman Sparkman and Representative Hanna, are 
attached as Items 13 and 14. 
Proposed controls over mutual funds. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated May 16, 1967, from Mr. Cardon regarding a request 
from the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee for a report 
° n H.R. 9510, the Securities and Exchange Commission's proposal to 
tighten controls over mutual funds. The memorandum quoted a descrip-
tion of the bill's principal features from the Commission's letter 
transmitting the bill to the Congress. Attached was a draft of letter 
that would state that, while the Committee's courtesy in affording an 
opportunity to comment on the proposal was appreciated, the bill did 
n°t relate to the Board's area of responsibility and therefore the 
Board was not in a position to offer comments that would appear useful. 
Chairman Martin noted that Governor Brimmer, who had partici-
pated in several studies relating to mutual funds before he became a 
member of the Board, had suggested a response to the Committee that 
w°uld point up the nature of the problem and indicate that the Board 
d i d have a general interest in it. 
Governor Brimmer then described the studies in which he had 
taken part and mentioned some of the findings. He was convinced that 

1973 
5/17/67 
-14-
mutual fund practices ought to be regulated somewhat more closely. 
Although the Board had no direct responsibility in the matter and he 
would not suggest that the Board should testify on the bill, mutual 
funds were a part of the financial system and their activities had 
some bearing on the flow of savings. He suggested that the letter to 
the Committee indicate an awareness of the problem and express the 
thought that it merited careful consideration. 
There was agreement with a suggestion that Governor Brimmer work 
with the staff in drafting a reply to the Committee along the lines he 
had described. 
Messrs. Cardon, Sammons, Keir, and Fisher then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Report of Ad Hoc Subcommittee on Bank Charters. On February 15, 
1967, the Board gave preliminary consideration to a distributed memoran-
dum dated January 18, 1967, from Messrs. Hackley and Solomon (Examina-
tions) commenting upon a report of the Ad Hoc Subcommittee on Bank 
Charters. That report had been considered at the September 1966 meet-
ing of the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks. The 
Conference approved four of the six points in the program recommended 
in the report but concluded that "a discussion of this entire subject 
with the Board on some suitable occasion would serve a useful purpose." 
Consideration by the Board of the substance of the report had 
keen deferred until Governor Brimmer, who had succeeded to membership 

1974 
5/17/67 
-15-
on the Ad Hoc Bank Charter Committee at a late stage in the study, could 
discuss the Subcommittee report with Governor Robertson, particularly 
in view of the latter!s assignment as Board representative on the Coor-
dinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
At the beginning of today's discussion, Governor Robertson 
remarked that there appeared to be little in the report that had not 
either been put in process or lost its relevance. He suggested, there-
fore, that the report seemed to require no active further consideration. 
Mr. Hackley agreed that in large part the report had become 
academic. As to the first recommendation in the report, which was to 
secure Federal legislation that would place all insured banks on an 
equal basis in regard to State restrictions on their interstate opera-
tions, he noted that legislation for such purpose had been suggested by 
a New York State Advisory Committee in September 1966 to the State Super-
intendent of Banks. It appeared that this particular proposal might 
raise practical problems. The matter was one that might require further 
exploration at some time, but there was no urgency. 
Governor Maisel reiterated the view he had expressed at the 
February 15 Board meeting that the question ought to be studied care-
fully before any such proposals were supported. In his view, State 
n°nmember banks, by virtue of their chosen status, had no right to 
Federal legislative aid, and the System would be remiss if it tried to 
obtain for them the privileges that should be reserved for State member 
banks. 

1975 
5/17/67 
-16-
Mr. Hackley then noted that some of the problems about which 
the Subcommittee had been concerned at the beginning of its study were 
no longer acute--in particular, those relating to conflicts between the 
Board and the Comptroller of the Currency. He had learned just yester-
day, for example, that the forthcoming supplement to the Comptroller's 
Manual would eliminate several of the rulings by former Comptroller 
Saxon with which the Board had differed, including rulings relating to 
the eligibility of corporations to have savings accounts, the right of 
national banks to purchase stock in other banks, and the status of prom-
issory notes as not constituting deposits. 
Mr. Solomon referred to the recommendation calling for improved 
coordination between the Federal Reserve System and State banking author-
ities. He noted that before the National Association of Supervisors of 
State Banks brought commercial banks into its organization as associate 
members, some of the Reserve Banks had defrayed the expenses of events 
such as dinners or receptions during regional meetings of the Associa-
tion. However, with the introduction of the associate members, there 
had been some feeling that it would not be appropriate for the Reserve 
Banks to do so. It was his impression that this feeling had been based 
° n an assumption that there would be greater participation by the asso-
ciate members than had proved to be the case, and that Reserve Banks 
might be inclined to resume the practice if that would be in accord 
with the Board's thinking. 

1976 
5/17/67 
-17-
Governor Robertson urged that the System proceed cautiously. 
He had received indications recently that the associate members were 
becoming more active at the policy level, and that the Association was 
losing much of the flavor of a supervisory organization. While the 
Federal Reserve should cooperate with the Association in every proper 
way, he did not think a reversion to the practice of providing dinners 
was indicated at this time. 
Governor Sherrill agreed that the character of the Association 
appeared to have changed. Although the associate members might not 
Participate to any great extent in the regional conferences, their 
weight was felt in positions taken by the Association. He concurred 
with Governor Robertson's recommendation that the System proceed care-
fully. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had gained the impression 
from conversations that the Association was likely to be more hostile 
than the American Bankers Association to some of the legislative pro-
posals advocated by the Board. It might help if the Federal Reserve 
Participated more actively in the meetings of the Association. He 
agreed, of course, that the System should not become deeply involved 
the Association's activities. 
Reserve requirements. Governor Brimmer referred to the fact 
that the par banking legislation recently enacted in Minnesota made it 
Possible for State banks to hold up to 30 per cent of their required 

1977 
5/17/67 
-18-
reserves in earning assets. He believed this would put additional 
Pressure on member banks in Minnesota, particularly smaller banks, to 
withdraw from the Federal Reserve System; in a recent meeting with 
banke rs from that area, that point was stressed. This suggested to 
him the desirability that the Board examine again the possibilities of 
taking some action under its present statutory authority in the direc-
tion of graduated reserve requirements. The Board's legislative pro-
posal did not seem likely to be acted upon by the Congress in the near 
future. Therefore, he believed the Board should give consideration to 
what it could do within its present authority to reduce the burden on 
the smaller member banks. The economic environment might now be better 
than it would be later. 
Mr. Brill described studies that were under way, within the 
framework of the System Research Advisory Committee, regarding reserve 
requirements. It was expected that by June there would be available a 
Package of reports reflecting consideration of several possibilities by 
System staff. 
Chairman Martin remarked that Governor Brimmer's suggestion 
Was timely and that the time schedule outlined by Mr. Brill was probably 
the best that could be worked out. 
GNP statistics. Mr. Brill reported that the Commerce Department 
was expected to release today revised and presumably final figures on 
GNP for the first quarter. He understood that on a current dollar basis 

1978 
5/17/67 
-19-
the increase was now being estimated at $4.4 billion rather than $5 bil-
lion, which suggested a small decrease in real terms. There were also 
a number of largely offsetting revisions. 
Governor Brimmer said he understood that corporate profit fig-
ures, which apparently also would be made public, showed a drop of only 
6 or 7 per cent for the first quarter compared with the 10 per cent 
decline that had been estimated on the basis of incomplete data. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Sherman and Kenyon with-
drew from the meeting at this point. 
Travel by Mr. Pierce. The Board approved the recommendation in 
a memorandum from the Divisions of Research and Statistics and Interna-
tional Finance dated May 12, 1967, that James L. Pierce, Economist in 
the former Division, be authorized to visit the central banks of Colombia 
and Costa Rica for approximately two days each in connection with his 
assignment to assist the Central Bank of Peru in training personnel in 
computer use for analytic research. It was understood that the addi-
tional travel expenses and per diem occasioned by his visits to Colombia 
<*nci Co sta Rica would be paid by the Board. 
Processing of foreign travel requests. Governor Robertson 
referred to the fact that the Board member having responsibility for 
Internal administrative affairs presently had authority to approve for-
eign travel by members of the Board's staff only in certain limited 
circumstances. He inquired whether the Board desired that requests for 

1979 
5/17/67 
-20-
foreign travel continue to be brought before it or whether the Board 
would prefer to have such requests acted upon by the member in charge 
°f internal administrative affairs, subject to the understanding that 
approvals would continue to be entered in the Board's minutes and that 
any requests of an unusual nature or involving extensive travel would 
be brought to the Board for consideration. 
After discussion, authority to approve requests for foreign 
travel by members of the staff was vested in the member of the Board 
having responsibility for internal administrative affairs, with the 
understanding that approvals would be recorded in the Board's minutes 
and that requests of an unusual character would continue to be acted 
uPon by the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Pursuant to the 
authority granted by the Board on 
April 13, 1967, a letter was sent 
today to the Bank of Dearborn, Dear-
born, Michigan, granting an extension 
of time, until May 31, 1967, for the 
bank to file a registration statement 
pursuant to section 12(g) of the Secu-
rities Exchange Act of 1934 and Regu-
lation F, Securities of Member State 
Banks. 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf 
of the Board on May 16, 1967, a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Phila-
delphia (copy attached as Item No. 15) 
approving the appointment of Jon A. 
Fioravanti as assistant examiner. 

1 9 8 0 
5/17/67 
-21-
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board a letter to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (copy 
attached as Item No. 16) approving the 
designation of 25 employees as special 
assistant examiners as requested in the 
Bank's letter of May 15, 1967. 

1981 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Marine Midland Trust Company 
of Central New York, 
Syracuse, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment of a temporary branch 
in Store Number 3, Shoppingtown Plaza, Erie Boulevard 
East (New York Route 5), Town of DeWitt, Onondaga County, 
New York, by Marine Midland Trust Company of Central New 
York, Syracuse, New York. It is understood that branch 
operations to be conducted at the proposed site will be 
discontinued when repairs are completed at the bank's 
present Shoppingtown office. 
The Board understands you are giving close 
attention to your bank's liquidity position and that 
consideration is being given to increasing the capital 
funds of the bank to provide for future growth. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
5/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Wilmington Trust Company, 
Wilmington, Delaware. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment of a branch by Wilmington 
Trust Company, Wilmington, Delaware, at the intersection 
of 9th and Shipley Streets, Wilmington, Delaware, and a 
branch in the Goldsborough Building on the east side of 
West Street between 11th and 12th Streets, Wilmington, 
Delaware, provided each branch is established within six 
months from the date of this letter and provided further 
that neither branch will accept deposits or pay checks. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branches; 
and that if an extension should be requested, the 
procedure prescribed in the Board's letter of 
November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

gssajv--
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
5/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Ohio Savings & Trust Company, 
New Philadelphia, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Ohio Savings & 
Trust Company, New Philadelphia, Ohio, of a branch at 
the southwest corner of the intersection of Commercial 
Avenue and South Broadway, New Philadelphia, Ohio, 
provided the branch is established within six months 
from the date of this letter. 
•...' 
- ? •
- 
* ' v' • 
Despite adjustments in your investment portfolio 
and the sale of new stock in 1966, your bank's capital 
and liquidity positions remain less than satisfactory. 
The Board urges that careful consideration be given to 
all means to improve these conditions, including a 
realignment of your asset structure and the sale of 
additional capital stock. 
Very truly yours, 
. (Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

198 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
5/17/67 
WASHINGTON, 
• . 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Springfield Marine Bank, 
Springfield, Illinois. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Springfield Marine 
Bank, Springfield, Illinois, of a branch at 435 South 
Sixth Street, Springfield, Illinois, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
r..1<j| 
-• r \ , r Q g £ - , 
• J. , 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
, Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20331 
Item No. 5 
5/17/67 
A D D R C B B 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E B P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to September 18, 1967, the time within 
which United California Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
may establish a branch in the vicinity of the intersection 
of Alvarado and Franklin Streets, Monterey, California, 
to ^'v:-,. x coq-vrruetiu.* 
for 
: ' 
The Board also extends to May 22, 1968, the time 
within which United California Bank may establish a branch 
in the vicinity of the intersection of Saratoga and Campbell 
Avenues, San Jose, California. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1986 
: 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
5/17/67 
i_ir i r-it. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Peoples Trust Company 
of Bergen County, 
Hackensack, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System approves an investment in bank 
premises by Peoples Trust Company of Bergen County, 
Hackensack, New Jersey, of not to exceed $2,800,000 for 
the purpose of constructing quarters for the bank's 
computer center and expanding and remodeling main office 
and branch buildings. 
The Board understands that plans for the 
strengthening of the bank's less than satisfactory 
capital position will be finalized in the not too distant 
future. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1987 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
5/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
City State Bank, 
Ogden, Iowa. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves under the provisions of Section 9 of 
the Federal Reserve Act the retirement by City State Bank, 
Ogden, Iowa, of the $50,000 par value preferred stock 
outstanding. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary, 

1388 
of coVV • 
' iv' Va' 
B
; 
IIP 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o > 8 
OF THE 
5/11/61 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1967. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and Organization Certificate dated April 24, 1957, of 
First National City Bank (International), San Francisco, California, 
and there is enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corpora-
tion to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
fche Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
hy Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
Wlll issue its final permit to commence business, the President, 
treasurer, or Secretary, together with at least three of the directors, 
njust certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest of which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
Under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States, 
°r by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has 
keen paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually paid in 
in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter the 
treasurer or Secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining 
instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 
Your attention is called to the fact that First National City 
Bank (International) will have no separate base under the voluntary 
foreign credit restraint effort, and any foreign loans or investments 
w i U need to be made under the ceiling of the First National City Bank, 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation and International 

B O A R D 
D r 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
19J 
First National City Bank 
- 2 -
rr.y r 
Banking Corporation. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given 
with the understanding that any foreign loans and investments of 
the Corporation, combined with those of First National City Bank, 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation and International 
Banking Corporation, will not cause the total of such loans and 
investments to exceed the guidelines established under the voluntary 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect, and that due considera-
tion will be given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Enclosure. 
A. ; ' 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary, 
vr ((v < 
c.v 
.» in. 
50AP.D 01 
V 
DKRAJ 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
May 17, 1967. 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this 
day approved the Articles of Association dated April 24, 1967, 
and the Organization Certificate dated April 24, 1967, of 
FIRST NATIONAL CITY BANK (INTERNATIONAL) duly filed with said 
Board of Governors, and that FIRST NATIONAL CITY BANK 
(INTERNATIONAL) is 
authorized to exercise such of the powers 
conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final 
permit generally to commence business in accordance with the 
• : 
' 
; ' ' 
, i V. 1 k, 
' . 
provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
pursuant thereto, 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1991 
•VoOf Gov/ •. 
W
M
M
K
-
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
5/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1967. 
First National City Bank, 
^99 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
. r . . • 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
Lts permission to First National City Bank, New York, New York, pur-
suant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
establish a branch in Djakarta, Republic of Indonesia, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before June 1, 1968, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Djakarta. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of for-
n branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form of 
^located capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as for-
eig 
n assets for purposes of the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 M Q 2 
.JL K J. I 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
o r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 10 
5/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E ! 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 19, 1967 
Mr. M. F. Allen, Jr., President, 
First National Bank of Eastern North Carolina, 
Jacksonville, North Carolina. 28541 
Dear Mr. Allen: 
The Board has been informed of the request submitted 
through attorneys for your bank in a letter dated April 12, 1967, 
to meet with representatives of the Federal Reserve and to submit 
a brief in support of the objection of your bank to the applica-
tion of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina, for approval to establish a branch in Graham, North 
Carolina. It is understood that your attorneys were advised by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond in a letter dated April 17, 
1967. that members of the staff of the Richmond Reserve Bank or 
of the Board would be willing to meet, to accept the brief, and 
to discuss this matter with representatives of your bank. The 
Re serve Bank then attempted to schedule such a meeting for Nay 5; 
when this da te proved inconvenient for your representatives, May 12 
was mutually agreed upon. Subsequently, your attorneys requested 
and were granted a postponement until May 18; it is understood that, 
because your attorneys state they will be unable to prepare the 
brief by that date, the meeting again has been postponed, and now 
is scheduled for May 26 at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond now has forwarded to 
the Board your letter of May 8, 1967, in which you state: "we urge 
you to treat our request as if it were for a formal hearing, that 
at the hearing the witnesses be sworn, that witnesses be subjected 
to cross-examination and that findings of fact and conclusions of 
law be made upon determination of the hearing and that we be 
notified of the decision reached in sufficient time to protect 
0ur rights and interests." 

Mr. M. F„ Allen, Jr. 
- 2 -
1993 
Upon consideration of your request in the light of present 
circumstances, the Board declines to grant a hearing at this time 
involving all the procedures set forth in your letter of May 8. The 
Board is of the view that the procedures offered to you by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, which will exclude a swearing of 
witnesses and, since your bank will be the only interests represented, 
your cross-examination of witnesses, constitute full and adequate 
opportunity for an exposition of your views on the subject applica-
tion. The Board notes that you have been advised by the Richmond 
Reserve Bank that you will be afforded full opportunity to present, 
both orally and in documentary form, whatever evidence you believe 
to be relevant to the application. In addition, there will be 
made available to you a copy of the application, although it is 
understood that your attorneys previously have indicated they did 
not wish to be furnished with a copy of the same, noting that it 
apparently is identical with the application that was the subject 
of an earlier proceeding thereon before the North Carolina State 
inking Commission. Further, you will be permitted, pursuant to 
the request of your attorneys, to file at the time of your appear-
ance at the Richmond Reserve Bank, a brief in support of your 
Presentation. Such brief, together with a verbatim transcript of 
the oral presentation, including all related documents submitted, 
will be forwarded to the Board for its consideration. 
You may rest assured that Board action in this matter 
will be taken only after due consideration of all relevant facts 
and arguments that you may present at the May 26 meeting. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

Item No. 11 
5/17/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington, D. C. 
Iri the Matter of the Application of 
• 
: 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
f o r approval of acquisition of 80 per 
^ent or more of the voting shares of 
est Suburban Bank, Brookfield, 
Wlsconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)), 
and section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), 
atl application by Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, 
^sconsin, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
C e n t or more of the outstanding voting shares of West Suburban Bank, 
Br°°kfleldt Wisconsin. 
• 
- 
s- 
• • ••• 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten 
notice of receipt of the application to the Conmissioner of 
**Qnks for the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and recom-
^ndation. The Conmissioner advised that the proposal met with his 
aPproval. 

1995 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 5, 1967 (32 Federal Register 63), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the application 
Vas forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth day following the date of this Order or 
later than three months after the date of the Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 17th day of May, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors, Robertson, Shepardson, Mitchell, Maisel, 
and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
Governor Sherrill did not participate in the Board's 
action in this matter. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary, 

1996 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 12 
5/17/67 
APPLICATION OF MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
WEST SUBURBAN BANK, BROOKFIELD, WISCONSIN 
Wis 
STATEMENT 
Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, 
c°nsin ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has 
PPlied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a) of the 
fiank 
the 
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, for prior approval of 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the outstanding voting 
s h a r e s of West Suburban Bank, Brookfield, Wisconsin ("Bank"), a new 
no 
1/ 
Member insured bank. At June 30, 1966, 
Applicant controlled 
2/ 
subsidiary banks, 
which operated six offices with aggregate 
four 
total 
N°vemb 
deposits of $419 million. Bank, which opened for business in 
1966, is located in Brookfield, Waukesha County, about 10 miles 
Wggk _ 
o f Milwaukee's business district. Applicant estimates that Bank 
N U 
k nave deposits of $4.2 million after three years of operation. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
y s ction 3(b) of the Act, notice of the application was given to the 
lssioner of Banks for the State of Wisconsin. The Commissioner 
S e d that Applicant's proposal met with his approval. 
i/AiTT 
2/ . A banking data are as of this date, unless otherwise noted, 
C(luisition of a fifth subsidiary, Bank of Greenfield, a newly 
53 !!ai2ed institution, was approved by the Board on February 20, 1967. 
fed- Res. Bulletin 380 (1967). 

199 
-2-
it 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly, or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any p a r t o f t h e uni.ted States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
ke substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, 
°r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a r e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consid-
eration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
atld needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - At year-end 1965, 
10 largest banking organizations in the State of Wisconsin controlled 
39 Per cent of the total of insured commercial bank deposits in the State, 
Th 
6 three largest of the State's banking organizations are bank holding 
c°mpanies, Applicant's system being third in size of these. Its relative 
would remain unchanged by its acquisition of Bank. 
Consummation 
the proposed acquisition would have only a negligible effect on the 
share of the State's commercial banking resources which are held by 
APPlicant, by holding company systems, and by the 10 largest banking 
°r8anizations in the State. 

1998 
-2-
Bank is closely associated with Applicant's system through 
c°rcmon stock ownership. Although presently operating as an independent 
*nstitution, it was organized by individuals who are directors of 
applicant and/or its subsidiaries in anticipation of the present pro-
p°Sal. Bank is located in Brookfield, Wisconsin, on a thoroughfare 
*hlch marks the boundary between the cities of Brookfield and Wauwatosa 
also the boundary between Waukesha and Milwaukee Counties. Applicant 
stimates that Bank's deposits after three years of operation will approx-
a t e $4.2 million and that its primary service area will consist of 
Porti 
is a 
17 
ons of the cities of Brookfield, Wauwatosa, and Elm Grove. This 
rapidly growing, primarily residential area with a population of 
22 ^ 
' 
• The income pattern of the area is above average. In addition 
to it 
Population growth, the area has been the scene of a rapid commer-
cial 
Pre 
and industrial expansion in the last 10 years. 
With regard to competition between Bank and Applicant's four 
S e n t subsidiaries, the record before the Board indicates that each 
those 
Cor 
subsidiaries derives deposits of individuals, partnerships, and 
P°rations ("IPC deposits") from Bank's primary service area in an 
**oUnt equal to but 1 to 1.4 per cent of the total deposits held by each 
of th 
e subsidiaries. While the IPC deposits thus derived by Applicant's 
sidia 
^ries are substantial in relation to the anticipated deposits of 
a n v 
y conclusion of existing or potential competition between Bank 
the 
e banks in Applicant's system that might be premised solely upon 
rigin of such deposits must be tempered by the facts relating to 
H 
the 

1999 
-4-
N 
the organization of Bank and the community of interest between it and 
Applicant which has existed since Bank's inception. Bank's organi-
zation represents an attempt by Applicant to provide more convenient 
services to Bank's primary service area in the only way open to it 
consistent with State prohibitions against branching. While some 
rfcsidents of Bank's service area may find Applicant's present 
subsidiaries 
to be equally convenient alternatives, there is not and 
never has been a prospect of competition between Bank and Applicant's 
subsidiaries 
in any real sense. To the extent that the area's residents 
®ay presently choose between Bank and one of Applicant's other subsidia-
ries based on the relative convenience of the location of each, such 
choice will not be affected by approval of the application. It 
therefore does not appear that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
w°uld have any effect on existing or potential competition between 
and any of Applicant's other subsidiaries® The effect of the 
acquisition on concentration within the primary service area and the 
Milwaukee Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area would be minimal. 
There are seven banking offices located outside of the primary 
Service area which compete therein. Of these, three are offices of 
Wi 
sconsin's largest bank holding company (First Wisconsin Bankshares 
^°rporation), one is an office of the second largest (Marine Corporation), 

2000 
-2-
:.j : 
M i 
r'. 
• 
w 
••' 
v 
two others are offices of independent banks which are the State's 
and sixteenth largest banking organizations. The remaining bank 
Se*ving the area, Elm-Brook State Bank (deposits $3.5 million), is 
Cated more than four miles from Bank and is closer to offices of 
both C 
the larger holding company subsidiaries than it is to Bank. In 
ddiUon, a subsidiary of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation plans 
0 relocate an existing branch approximately 2.7 miles from Bank. Another 
uiary of the same company has filed an application to establish a 
bran , 
n one mile from Bank, and a subsidiary of the Marine Corporation has 
ed an application to establish a branch diagonally across the street 
both of these applications being contingent upon a change in 
Vl 
Sc°nsin branching law. All of these efforts attest to both the impending 
for additio rial bank facilities in the area and the aggressiveness 
Of 
lsting and potential competition. Under these circumstances, it 
a r s that the affiliation of Bank with Applicant will provide increased 
n8 competition in the area without threat of harmful effects on 
e*isn 
Clr*g institutions. 
In the light of these facts, the Board concludes that consum-
«iat i 
°f the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly nor be 
** furth erance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the bij 
siness of banking in any area. There is no probability that the 
Su i 8 i t, 
! >• 
'•ion may have the effect of substantially lessening competition 
0t U 
nding to create a monopoly in any section of the country, nor would 
any other manner be in restraint of trade. 

2001 
-2-
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant is well capitalized, its earnings are satisfactory, and its 
management is experienced and capable. Its prospects, directly depen-
dent upon those of its subsidiary banks, are considered to be favorable. 
Bank's brief history provides little basis for appraising its 
Prospects. However, its capital structure, viewed in relation to its 
Pr°jected deposit growth and estimated earnings, appears adequate. Its 
tx;o principal officers, both of whom are now nearing retirement, had 
extensive experience with Applicant's subsidiary, Marshall & lis ley 
Bank, prior to joining Bank. As an affiliate of Applicant, Bank will 
assured of adequate management succession. On the basis of the fore-
and considering Bank's location in a growing area in which further 
Substantial expansion is anticipated, Bank's prospects under present 
°^nership are considered favorable and may reasonably be expected to be 
improved by consummation of the proposed affiliation. Considerations 
taring 
on the banking factors are consistent with, and weigh somewhat 
favor of, approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - As heretofore 
^ted, the projected service area of Bank has undergone rapid growth, 
oth resldentially and commercially, in recent years. Bank's affiliation 
Appiicant w i n n ot provide the area with any major services not 
ptesently available there through Bank and the offices of other large 
nstitutions 
proximate to the area. The proposed affiliation will, 
°Wever, more certainly and more immediately constitute Bank as a convanient 

2002 
• v S ' V • 
S°Urce 
full banking services than would be the case if Bank remained 
Uri(1er existing ownership. Applicant's proposal to expand Bank's 
0lBmercial and industrial loan programs is of particular significance 
vtth respect to the credit requirements of the area. The Board 
0nclucies that the evidence relating to the convenience and needs 
of th ie area involved lends support toward approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
','t.' 
, • .. • 
' ..' L iJ 
ained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
} -1 
seC£ J 
l0t* 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
ransaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
^°uld be approved. 
V 
. 
: • 
17, 1967. 

20O3 
BOARD OF GDVERNQR5 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 13 
5/17/67 
O F F I C E 
C F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 25, 1967. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
u» S. Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
°ear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your requests of April 14, 1967, 
for the Board's views on S. 1492 and S. 1493. Each bill would 
broaden the investment authority and change the administrative 
°rganization of the Federal National Mortgage Association. 
The Board favors the principle contained in each bill of 
Providing a more comprehensive market for home mortgages. The 
authority created in S. 1492 as well as in S. 1493 for FNMA to 
Participate FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgages held under its 
secondary market functions would be a step in this direction. 
Such FNMA action should help to attract investors who are reluctant 
to acquire the underlying individual mortgage instruments but are 
nevertheless willing to buy the obligations of a Federal agency 
that holds them. 
On the other hand, the proposed authorization for FNMA 
to deal in conventional home loans lacking Federal underwriting 
w°uld represent a major change in policy that the Board believes 
requires further careful study. This would represent a significant 
change in the scope of operations of this Federal agency, which 
thus far have been confined to mortgages that conform to public-
Policies, as expressed in the underwriting of FHA and VA mortgages. 
Each of these bills provides that the Chairman of the 
Federal Reserve Board, or another Board member designated by him, 
w°uld serve on the reorganized Board of Directors of FNMA. The 
Board of Governors feels strongly that it would not be appropriate 
its members to serve in such a capacity. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
2004 
Each of the bills would also permanently authorize the 
Federal Reserve Banks, under the direction and regulation of the 
Federal Open Market Committee, to buy and sell in the open market 
FNMA obligations, participations, and other instruments. 
The 
Board believes that enactment of any such provision would be at 
least premature at a time when there is discussion whether to 
continue on a permanent basis the authority granted under Public 
Law 89-597, due to expire in September, which extends the privilege 
to the obligations of all Federal agencies. 
In any event, it 
believes that to single out FNMA. obligations for this privilege 
vould bo inappropriate; if such a provision is enacted on a permanent 
basis it should be applicable to comparable obligations of all Federal 
Government agencies. 
The Board has no comments at this time on other provisions 
either of the two bills. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

1 
^ 
2005 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 14 
5/17/67 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 25, 1967. 
Ihe Honorable Richard T. llanna, 
House of Representativesj 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Hanna: 
This is in response to your letter of April 14, 1967, 
asking for the Board's views on current trade association proposals 
for establishing a central mortgage facility and for providing a 
secondary market for conventional mortgages. 
In this connection, the Board has closely examined two 
kills that would broaden the investment authority and change the 
administrative organization of the Federal National Mortgage 
Association. These bills are H.R. 8941, drafted by the National 
Association of Real Estate Boards, and H.R. 8942, drafted by the 
National Association of Home Builders. 
The Board favors the principle contained in each bill of 
Providing a more comprehensive market for home mortgages. The 
authority created in H.R. 8941 as well as in H.R. 8942 for FNMA 
to participate FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgages held under 
^ s secondary market functions would be a step in this direction. 
Such FNMA action should help to attract investors who are reluctant 
t o acquire the underlying individual mortgage instruments but are 
nevertheless willing to buy the obligations of a Federal agency that 
h°lds them. 
On the other hand, the proposed authorization for FNMA 
to deal in conventional home loans lacking Federal underwriting 
Would represent a major change in policy that the Board believes 
requires further careful study. This would represent a significant 
change in the scope of operations of this Federal agency, which 
thus far have been confined to mortgages that conform to public 
Policies, as expressed in the underwriting of FHA and VA mortgages. 

o 008 
Scow's*, 
'i 
The Honorable Richard T. Hanna 
-2-
l l ® 
M
^
- • 
.. y» « » • " 
Each of these bills provides that the Chairman of the 
Federal Reserve Board, or another Board member designated by him, 
would serve on the reorganized Board of Directors of FNMA. The 
Board of Governors feels strongly that it would not be appropriate 
for its members to serve in such a capacity. 
Each of the bills would also permanently authorize the 
Federal Reserve Banks, under the direction and regulation of the 
Federal Open Market Committee, to buy and sell in the open market 
FNMA obligations, participations, and other instruments. The 
Board believes that enactment of any such provision would be at 
least premature, at a time when there is discussion whether to 
continue on a permanent basis the authority granted under Public 
Law 89-597, due to expire in September, which extends the privilege 
to the obligations of all Federal agencies. In any event, it believes 
that to single out FNMA obligations for this privilege would be 
inappropriate; if such a provision is enacted on a permanent basis 
3-t should be applicable to comparable obligations of all Federal 
Government agencies. 
The Board has no comments at this time on other provisions 
H.R. 8941 or H.R. 8942. It has not commented on H.R, 3960, since 
it understands that that bill is not now under active consideration. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

2007 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o 
1 5 
T T H E 
5
/
1
7
/ 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 16, 1967 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in Mr. Case's letter of May 12, 1967, the Board 
approves the appointment of Jon A. Fioravanti as 
an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia. 
Please advise the effective date 
of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2008 
Item No. 16 
5/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1967 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of May 15, 1967, the Board approves the 
designation of each of the employees listed as a 
special assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston. 
Appropriate notations have been made of 
the 
names to be deleted from the list of special 
assistant examiners. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
