3/70) 
Minutes for 
F e b r u a r y 
1 6 , 
1 9 7 1 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes 

416 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, February 16, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

2/16/71 
-2-
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Holding company applications. 
The following applications were 
approved unanimously after consideration of pertinent materials and 
issuance of documents implementing the decisions was authorized: 
First Community Bancorporation, Joplin, Missouri, to become 
a bank holding company through acquisition of the successor 
by merger to First National Bank of Joplin and indirect con-
trol of the voting shares of Community National Bank of 
Joplin, both of Joplin, Missouri (order and statement attached 
under Item No. 1); and 
First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, to acquire all 
of the voting shares of the successor by merger to The First 
National Bank of Wapakoneta, Wapakoneta, Ohio (order attached 
as Item No. 2). 
Bank holding companies. As requested at the meeting on 
February 11, 1971, during discussion of the proposed registration 
statement to be used by bank holding companies under recent statutory 
amendments, the staff had drafted a short form of statement for use in 
certain circumstances. 
Use of this form would be limited to one-bank 
holding companies that met the following requirements: 
(1) the bank 
has less than $30 million in total assets; (2) the holding company 
controls not more than two nonbanking subsidiaries; and (3) the hold-
ing company has total assets not exceeding $5 million. 

2/16/71 
-2-
Discussion developed a consensus in favor of deleting the 
second criterion. 
Other comments brought out that the present version of the 
longer registration statement reflected a treatment of goodwill that 
had been favored by members of the Federal Advisory Council. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the registration statements 
were approved unanimously. A copy of the relevant press release is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
Nassau branches. Governor Brimmer referred to the listing on 
today's agenda of a number of applications for Nassau ("shell") branches 
and suggested that consideration be deferred since the staff would have 
ready soon additional information regarding the over-all issue of Nassau 
branches. 
It was noted that some of the applications had been pending for 
a considerable time and that letters informing the applicants of action 
taken could make it clear that a study was under way that might result 
in a modification of the Board's position. Further, if the general 
issues were discussed and the result should be to publish for comment 
a notice of proposed rule making, additional delay would occur. 
Governor Mitchell outlined his current thinking on the Nassau 
branch question, including restrictions on such operations that he 
believed would be warranted in the public interest, and it was understood 

419 
2/16/71 
-6-
that documentation incorporating these views would be made available 
to the Board. 
It was then agreed that the Nassau branch problem generally, 
< 
and also the pending applications, would be considered at the earliest 
feasible date when all Board members could be present. 
Report on financial developments. With a memorandum dated 
February 11, 1971, Mr. Partee had submitted a proposed report on 
financial developments in the fourth quarter of 1970, for transmittal 
to the Joint Economic Committee. 
Subject to final review by Chairman Burns, the statement was 
approved unanimously for transmittal. 
(Note: A copy of the statement 
and of the letter with which it was transmitted to the Committee are 
attached under Item No. 4.) 
1 
Truth in lending litigation. 
The Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, in a memorandum dated February 2, 1971, reported that 
counsel for Chemical Bank, New York, New York, had requested that the 
Board indicate "by appropriate action" that a certain staff letter con-
cerning Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, represented the view of the Board. 
The request arose from a class action against Chemical Bank alleging 
failure to comply properly with the requirements of the Truth in Lending 
Act and Regulation Z in connection with its open end credit plan. 
For 
reasons stated in the memorandum, the staff believed that the question 

420 
2/16/71 
-6-
involved in the pending litigation could best be handled in the courts 
without further involvement on the part of the Board. An attached 
draft reply would decline the bank's request. 
There was a general view that no impression should be given 
that the Board did not support the staff. Although rule-making author-
ity could not be delegated, a staff letter expressed the view of an 
informed official and represented the recommendation the staff would 
make if the question were to be presented to the Board. 
Accordingly, 
an appropriate posture would be that the staff opinion was the Board's 
interpretation until the Board changed it. However, since the immediate 
question was in the courts, no further position should be taken on it 
pending judicial determination. 
The staff was requested to redraft the proposed letter for the 
Board's consideration in the light of this discussion. 
It was noted that several hundred letters expressing staff 
opinions had been issued since the passage of the Truth in Lending Act. 
It was suggested that a summarization from time to time of the principal 
issues being raised would be helpful to the Board in maintaining an 
awareness of problems encountered under the regulation. There was 
general agreement that such presentations should be made to the Board 
Periodically, and it was suggested that the practice be followed also 
with respect to other regulatory functions. 

421 
2/16/71 
-6-
Birmingham Bloomfield Bank. Governor Robertson noted that 
Birmingham Bloomfield Bank, Birmingham, Michigan (one of the "Parsons 
Group" banks), had been declared insolvent and a receiver appointed by 
the court. Federal Reserve credit of approximately $40 million made 
available for the benefit of the Birmingham Bank through Bank of the 
Commonwealth, Detroit, would be repaid. A new bank had been organized 
that would take over the closed bank's offices. Also, a court order 
that had had the effect of prohibiting Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
Association), New York City, from taking over control of Bank of the 
Commonwealth had now been lifted. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
• ? 

422 
i' • ..,,,.
 1 
Item No. 1 
2/16/71 
UNITElD STATES OF AMERICA. 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST COMMUNITY BANCORPORATION, 
Joplin, Missouri, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
voting shares (less directors
1 
qualifying shares) of the successor 
by merger to First National Bank 
°f Joplin, Joplin, Missouri, and, 
as an incident to the merger, 
indirect control of 100 per cent 
°f the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of Community 
National Bank of Joplin, Joplin, 
Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Community Bancorporation, 
Missouri, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
applicant would become a bank holding company through the merger of 

423 
-3-
First National Bank of Joplin, Joplin, Missouri, intd & nOn6{>erating 
national bank and the acquisition by Applicant of 100 per cent of the 
voting shares (less directors
1 qualifying shares) of the successor by 
merger and, as an incident to the merger, indirect control of 100 per 
cent of the voting shares (less directors
1 qualifying shares) of 
Community National Bank of Joplin, Joplin, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 18, 1970 (35 Federal Register 19219), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
W a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered> For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
t h a n three months after the date of this Order, unless such time is 

extended for gbod cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 16, 1971 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A # Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

425 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST COMMUNITY BANCORPORATION, JOPLIN, MISSOURI 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First Community Bancorporation, Joplin, Missouri ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for prior approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the merger of First National Bank 
Joplin, Joplin, Missouri ("First Bank"), into a nonoperating national 
bank and the acquisition by Applicant of all but directors' qualifying 
shares of the successor by merger and, as an incident to the merger, 
indirect control of all but directors
1 qualifying shares of Community 
National Bank of Joplin, Joplin, Missouri ("Community Bank"). After 
a cquisition of the shares of the successor by merger to First Bank, 
applicant proposes to acquire direct ownership of Community Bank. 
The nonoperating national bank has significance only as a 
m eans of acquiring the shares of First Bank. Therefore, acquisition of 
e shares of the successor by merger to First Bank is treated as an 
a cquisition of the shares of First Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
b y S e c t i o n 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt of 

the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller reconxnended approval of the 
application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may.be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into considera-
tion the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - First Bank 
($53 million deposits) is located in downtown Joplin, Missouri. 
Community Bank ($3 million deposits) is located in Joplin about three 
^iles to the southeast of First Bank .—^Together, the banks control about 
per cent of the deposits in the Jasper County-Newton County area, the 
t Glevant banking market, in which 14 other banking organizations are 
located. 
All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding 
company acquisitions approved through December 31, 1970. 

427 
-3-
The two banks became affiliated in 1966 with the approval 
ef the Comptroller of the Currency, and apparently 
this relationship 
will continue regardless of the action on this proposal. Inasmuch as 
the proposed acquisition involves a reorganization of an existing system, 
and reflects neither expansion of that system nor any significant change' 
in the character of the system's banking facilities, it appears that 
consummation of Applicant •« proposal would not alter existing bank 
eoncentration or competition in the relevant areas, nor have any 
adverse effect on existing competition, nor affect potential competition. 
on the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly nor be in 
furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt 
to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States, 
and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, nor 
tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial r».., u r ee, a n d 
f , „ „ r e m
m
e
a
f , 
_ 
Applicant, a recently formed corporation, has no financial or operating 
history. 
I t s financial condition, managerial resources and prospects 
dependent principally upon those of the banks it proposes to acquire, 
financial condition, managements and prospects of the proposed 
Subsidiary banks are viewed as satisfactory. Considerations relating 
t 0 the banking factors are regarded as consistent with approval of the 
aPplication, 

-4-
Convenience and needs of the comnunity involved. - The two 
banks have worked closely together to meet the needs of the Joplin 
community. However, the greater flexibility of the holding company 
structure should enable Applicant to provide additional services and 
to improve existing services. Therefore, considerations relating to 
the convenience and needs of the areas involved lend some support to 
approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board
!s judgment that the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
February 16, 1971 

Item No. 
2/16/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC., 
Columbus, Ohio, 
for approval of acquisition of 100 per 
cent of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of the 
Accessor by merger to The First 
National Bank of Wapakoneta, 
Wapakoneta, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 8^2( a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., 
c°lumbus, Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
V o t i n g shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of a new national 
b a n k into which would be merged The First National Bank of Wapakoneta, 
ton 
^Pakoneta, Ohio ("Bank"). The new national bank has significance 

43 C 
- 2 -
only as a means of acquiring all of the shares of the bank to be merged 
into it; the proposal is therefore treated herein as one to acquire 
shares of The First National Bank of Wapakoneta. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Board also gave notice 
fco the Superintendent of Banks for the State of Ohio. The Comptroller 
^commended approval of the application, and the Superintendent advised 
that his office had no objection to approval. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on December 19, 1970 (35 Federal Register 19291) pro-
v i n g an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
x*
lth respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was 
f°rwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion, Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those re-
vived have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
ctors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of the 
pr°posed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the 
°
nvenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such considera-
t t o * the Board finds that: 

431 
-3-
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in Ohio, 
controls six banks with deposits of approximately $557 million, repre-
senting less than 3 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the 
State. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) 
The acquisition of Bank, with deposits of less than $24 million, would 
increase Applicant's control of deposits in the State by only 0.1 per-
centage points, leaving unchanged its present ranking among banking 
organizations in the State. 
Bank is located in the Town of Wapakoneta, which has a 
Population of less than 8,000. Bank operates a branch six miles north 
o f Wapakoneta in Cridersville, and another branch eight miles west of 
W aPakoneta in St. Mary's. As the largest of six banks in Auglaize County 
^Population 40,000), which is regarded as the relevant banking market and 
i s Primarily an agricultrual area, Bank holds 29 per cent of deposits in 
th 
G county. However, the second largest bank in the county is only slightly 
^ U e r than Bank and holds more than 26 per cent of deposits in the county. 
Al 
S o Bank competes with two considerably larger banks in the adjoining 
i^a market. A significant number of Wapakoneta residents corr.mute to Lima. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank located nearest to Bank is 78 miles 
t0 f-L 
a c southwest and there are three counties served by 95 offices of 
independent banks in the intervening area. It appears that no present 
Petition exists between any of Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank. 

On the facts of record and in the light of Ohio's branching restrictions, 
it appears unlikely that consummation of the proposal herein would fore-
close potential competition. 
Based upon the record, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would have no significant adverse effect on 
competition in any relevant area. The financial condition and management 
Applicant and its present subsidiaries appear to be satisfactory and 
Prospects for the group appear favorable. A strengthening of Bank's 
Management and financial condition is desirable. Applicant's ability to 
Provide assistance in these areas and to enhance Bank's prospects is a 
substantial factor in support of approval of the application. Applicant 
Proposes to expand Bank's lending operations, to initiate various staff 
*foprovement programs at Bank, and to offer trust, travel, and other 
S ervices. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served are consistent with and lend some slight support 
t o approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the pro-
Posed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
8 hould be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the findings 
3unitnari2ed above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
dded that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
t h e thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later 
^an three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 

43 C 
- 2 -
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 16, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
TSEAL] 

Item No. 3 
2/16/71 
For immediate release 
February 17, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued registration statements for one-bank holding companies which must 
register with the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act 
amendments enacted on December 31, 1970. 
One registration statement--a short form--is designed for use 
by small companies while the other must be filed by larger one-bank 
holding companies and multi-bank holding companies that register with 
the Board in the future. 'Hie shortened form may be used by one-bank 
holding companies that meet the following two tests: the bank has less 
than $30 million in total assets and the holding company itself has total 
assets not exceeding $5 million. 
The statements are a further step by the Board to implement 
the Act that extended its regulatory authority over bank holding companies 
to those that control only one bank. The Board on January 2.5 proposed 
amendments to its bank holding company regulation, outlining 10 activi-
ties to be regarded as closely related to banking or managing or 
controlling banks under the new law. The deadline for comment on these 
proposed amendments is February 26. 
Under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, only those holding 
companies that controlled 25 per cent or more of the voting stock of 

135 
-2-
two or more banks were required to register with the Federal Reserve 
and limit their activities to banking and closely related activities. 
In the 1970 amendments Congress expanded the law to cover corporations 
and other entities that control only one bank, gave the Board greater 
latitude to determine when control exists, and amended other parts of 
the Act under which bank holding companies may engage in bank-related 
activities . 
The 1970 amendments require all one-bank holding companies 
to register with the Federal Reserve by June 29, which is 180 days after 
the amendments were signed into law. 
Within the next several weeks, the Board will issue printed 
registration statements to be filled out by all companies controlling 
°ne bank, and to be returned to one of the 12 district Federal Reserve 
Banks. Printed copies of the registration statements will be delivered 
either to the companies directly or to commercial banks for forwarding 
t o their parent holding companies. 
Information requested in the registration statements includes 
hi 
l e n a m e and address of the holding company, its business activities, 
business activities of each of its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries, 
9 n d 
S u c h financial data as balance sheets, statement of income and 
accounts. 
About 1,100 commercial banks with total deposits of $140 billion 
v'
ete believed affiliated with one-bank holding companies as of April 1, 
l970. 

r imI! 
-3-
Sample copies of the registration statements are attached 
for information only. Tlie printed statements to be provided within 
the next several weeks should be used by companies required under the 
Act to register with the Federal Reserve. 
-0-

C H A I R M A N 
O F 
T H E 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 4 
2/16/71 
February 18, 1971 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
M.' 
Chairman 
Joint Economic Committee 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
' V; 
In accordance with the arrangements previously made with 
your Committee, I am transmitting herewith a staff report 
on financial developments in the fourth quarter of 1970. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

t-
438 
Financial Developments in the Fourth Quarter of 1970 
Interest rates in all markets declined substantially during the 
final quarter of 1970, and fund availability at financial institutions 
xpanded further. 
Short-term interest rates extended the decline begun 
i n the preceding quarter, and by year-end some rates were at their lowest 
l evel s in more than 2 years. 
Rates in longer-term markets also dropped 
c°nsiderably despite a heavy new-issue volume of corporate, municipal, 
n w j 
U.S. Treasury securities. 
The Federal Reserve reduced the discount 
G in two steps to a level of 5-1/2 per cent effective December 1, while 
tllG rate charged prime customers by banks was cut a total of 3/4 percentage 
p01-nts. Since year-end, the rate declines in all of these areas have 
extended. 
Interest-bearing deposits at banks and nonbank thrift institutions 
nt- a rapid pace as the drop in interest rates on market securities 
^de H 
these claims relatively more attractive. 
Demand deposit growth 
however, probably reflecting in part the effects of the auto-
1 g strike on economic activity and demands for cash balances. 
The 
owly defined money stock (currency and private demand deposits) 
ttlcte 
ased at a 3.4 per cent annual rate, as compared with around a 6 per 
V 
In 
increase over the previous three quarters. For the year as a whole, 
y defined money rose 5.4 per cent. A broader definition of money--
the n 
a rrowly defined money stock plus time and savings deposits other 
$ 8 
ft W g e negotiable certificates of deposit--advanced at a 9.2 per 
»• TJ*> 
•.•••: . 
annual rate in the fourth quarter and 8.3 per cent for the year, 

435 
- 2 -
Business loan demands continued weak, and banks used deposit 
inflows to build up investment portfolios and, in part, to pay down 
^ e i r higher-cost commercial paper and Euro-dollar borrowings. 
In 
addition, banks acted to moderate inflows of funds from large denomin-
ation CD's by reducing rates offered on such deposits and, consequently, 
increased by only about one-half the amount of the large gain in 
t h e third quarter. 
The Board of Governors at the end of November 
announced changes in regulations related to banks borrowing in the 
Euro-dollar market, in an attempt to temper the repayments of such 
borrowings 
and thus reduce the adverse impact of repayments on U.S. 
international accounts. 
^SSgtary at»flret>ates 
Growth in the narrowly defined money stock ( M ^ slowed during 
t h c fourth quarter of 1970 despite the sharp decline in interest rates. 
E*Pansion in M], was held down by the reduced rate of growth in private 
de"iand deposits that was probably associated with the dampening effect 
o f the automotive strike on economic activity. 
Demand deposits increased 
Q t less than a 1 per cent annual rate during the October-November period, 
b u t growth then accelerated to about a 6-1/2 per cent annual rate during 
M e m b e r following settlement of the strike. 
Interest-bearing deposits at banks and nonbank thrift institutions 
8 t c w at an accelerated pace during thc last quarter of 1970 as declines 
i n Market rates of interest made depositary claims increasingly attractive. 

43 C 
- 2 -
Selected Monetary Aggregates 
Percentage annual rates of change, seasonally adjusted 
1969 
1970 
. 
Item 
IV 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
I^£mber bank reserves 
Total 
1.4 
-2.9 
2.6 
19.1 
6.6 
Nonborrowed 
- .1 
- .4 
4.1 
24.4 
9.4 
of monev 
M i 
1.6 
5.9 
5.8 
6.1 
3.4 
M 2 
1.6 
3.4 
8.4 
11.0 
9.2 
«3 
1.6 
2.6 
7.9 
10.5 
9.7 
^nk^credit 
If 
Bank credit proxy 
adjusted 
2.0 
.5 
6.5 
. 
17.2 
8.3 
M e r no (change in billions 
dollars, seasonally 
a d justed): 
L a rP,e CD's 
- .8 
.3 
1.7 
8.5 
4.3 
is currency plus private demand deposits adjusted. 
t 
\ 
is M. plus bank time and savings deposits adjusted other than 
1 C D ' s .
1 
M 0 is 
plus 
deposits at mutual savings banks and savings and loan 
®®
soc?ations. 
Total member bank deposits plus funds provided by Euro-dollar borrowings 
bank-related commercial paper. 
Changes are calculated from the average amounts outstanding in the 
s t month of each quarter. 
i t -
A t 
b^nks the rapid growth in time and savings deposits other than large 
Principally consumer-type accounts--offset some of the reduced growth 
n 
Including such interest-bearing deposits, this broader concept of 
*°
n«y (M ?) increased much more rapidly than M ^ 
At the same time net 
of deposits to nonbank thrift institutions also continued to expand 
S t t 0 r>Rly. 
lit* 

Banks continued to acquire a considerable volume of funds from 
sales of large CD's, but their desire to attract 
such funds was appreci-
« 
ably less than in the quarter earlier. 
In view of weak loan demands and 
the liquidity rebuilding that had already been accomplished, banks reduced 
offering rates on CD's throughout the quarter as market interest rates 
were dropping. Hence, CD's rose by $4.3 billion seasonally adjusted, or 
about one-half the increase in the preceding quarter. 
This 
rise during the quarter in CD's was more than 
offset by declines in nondeposit sources of funds. With CD's readily 
Mailable, banks chose to reduce higher cost borrowings through the 
commercial paper and Euro-dollar markets. Bank-related commercial paper 
°
utstanding declined nearly $2.9 billion from the September average to 
the December average; repayments were stimulated, in part, by the added 
r elative cost of such funds due to the imposition of reserve requirements 
l n September on commercial paper sold by affiliates with the proceeds 
channeled to the bank. Euro-dollar liabilities of banks to their foreign 
Ranches declined about $2.2 billion from the September average to the 
December average, as interest rate differentials 
throughout the fourth 
barter favored domestic sources of funds. 
In order to strengthen 
the 
l n ducement for American banks to retain their Euro-dollar liabilities, 
Board of Governors at the end of November announced amendments to its 
N a t i o n s D and M governing member bank reserves and foreign branches 
Member banks. The amended rules raised from 10 to 20 per cent the 

o 
44 
- 5 -
reserve ratio applicable to a member bank's Euro-dollar borrowings that 
exceed a specified reserve-free base and applied an automatic downward 
adjustment feature to reserve-free bases based on total deposits. While 
the usually large changes in fund flows around the turn of the year make 
it particularly difficult to gauge the near-term effect of the new regu-
lations, the rate of Euro-dollar repayments nonetheless 
slowed late in 
the quarter. 
Jinks' uses of funds 
Banks continued to acquire securities in large volume during 
the final quarter of 1970, as inflows of funds remained substantial and 
demand for business loans was quite weak. Holdings of U.S. Government 
securities increased much less than in the preceding two quarters despite 
several Treasury financing operations. But securities other than Treasury 
i ssues increased $6.8 billion seasonally adjusted, or at about a 35 per 
c°nt annual rate--the highest growth rate on record for a quarter. 
The 
kulk of these securities were short- and intermediate-term municipals, 
although banks began to acquire longer-term issues in increasing volume 
Siven their already improved liquidity positions and the sizable yield 
ac*vantage of longer-term issues. 
Total loans outstanding,ad justed 
to include loans sold, fell 
the fourth quarter, mainly influenced by the large decline in 
^
U siness loans. 
Loans to commercial and industrial firms declined in 
a c h of the 3 months of the quarter, following a modest gain during the .. 

43 C 
- 2 -
preceding quarter. Business demands for short-term bank credit were 
constrained by sluggish economic activity and by efforts on the part 
of businesses to lengthen their debt structures, with some of the pro-
ceeds of capital market financings used to repay bank debt. 
Security 
loans and consumer instalment loans also evidenced weaker patterns; the 
latter was influenced in part by the effects of the automobile strike. 
Mortgage loans, however, continued to rise from the second quarter low 
as the effects of easier lending policies and strong demands began to 
be reflected in increased disbursements of mortgage credit. 
By 
December, real estate loans were rising at the fastest rate for the year, 
although this expansion was still somewhat below the record pace of 
late 1968 and early 1969. 
Banks generally eased their lending policies further during 
the quarter in view of increased fund availability and weaker loan demands. 
The prime rate charged by banks was reduced 1/4 percentage point three 
times to a level of 6-3/4 per cent late in December. 
Lending terms and 
conditions other than interest rates also were relaxed, except with 
respect to standards of creditworthiness. 
Nonbank intermediaries and the mortgage markets. Net deposit 
inflows to thrift institutions continued to improve in the fourth quarter 
o f 1970, growing at a seasonally adjusted rate of 11 per cent, up slightly 
from the 10 per cent third quarter rate. The rate of personal saving 
G a i n e d relatively high, as in earlier quarters, and the savings 

43 C 
- 2 -
institutions also benefited from the favorable yield differentials 
that developed over the period as rates on money market instruments 
< 
declined further. Mutual savings banks and savings and loan associations 
used these inflows to improve their liquidity positions and also stepped 
up the pace of new mortgage commitments. The increase in new commitment 
activity was particularly marked at mutual savings banks, while savings 
and loan associations continued to make new commitments at the high levels 
set in the third quarter. 
Seasonally adjusted net mortgage debt formation advanced further 
in the final quarter of 1970. 
In contrast to the previous two quarters, 
b°th the residential and nonresidential sectors contributed to the total 
increase, though the rate of expansion of nonresidential mortgage debt 
was still relatively low. Net residential mortgage debt rose to a sea-
sonally adjusted quarterly rate of $5.6 billion, just below the record 
rate achieved in the first quarter of 1969. Underlying the latest 
Quarterly advance was a further acceleration of residential mortgage 
lending activity at the savings and loan associations, which more than 
o f£set a moderate reduction in the rate of mortgage takings by the 
federal National Mortgage Association. 
Funds raised in security markets. Corporate offerings of 
new debt and stocks rose again in the fourth quarter of 1970. 
The 
v°iume of public bond issues by large manufacturers, public utilities, and 

445 
tf. 
• 
- 8 -
Net Change in Mortgage Debt Outstanding 
(In billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted quarterly data) 
V. 
. r 
1969 
1970 
Item 
IV 
T 
II 
III 
lYe 
J i . 
{\» • • 4 
• 
, [ Cx - y 
Total 
6.3 
5.1 
5.9 
6.7 
7.4 
1 \ 
• 
... : : > . : , 
n : 
. 
• 
Residential 
4.6 
Other 1/ 
1.7 
3.4 
4.2 
5.3 
5.6 
1.6 
1.6 
1.5 
1.7 
: J 
4 
1./ Includes commercial, farm, 
Totals may not add because of 
e - Estimated. 
and other nonresidential properties, 
round ing. 
| 
communications firms remained at record levels. Furthermore, as 
V • 
yields 
on new long-term debt Issues plunged, a number of firms in 
the transportation, finanoial, and commercial industry classifications 
were able to enter the market in the closing months of 1970. Takedowns „• 
of private placements increased sharply,-as is usual in the fourth quarter, and 
the quarterly volume of new equity Issues was the largest since late 1968 
Offerings of New Security Issues 
(Monthly average in billions of dollars, 
not seasonally adjusted) 
Item 
Corporate securities-
1969 
1970 
J 
IV 
I 
II 
III 
IVe 
2.3 
2.7 
3.5 
2.9 
3.9 
1.5 
1.9 
2.8 
2.3 
3.0 
.8 
.7 
.7 
.6 
.9 
1.0 
1.4 
1.2 
1.5 
1.9 
u 
Total 
Bonds 
1-5 
I - '
 
2 -
8 
2 '
3 
3 - ° 
>' 
Stocks
 
Q 
*^ 
State and local 
9 
, r 
i 9 
government bonds 
1.0 
e 
I 
" Estimated. 
& 
s. 

* 
446 
- 9 -
Long-term debt offerings by State and local governments in 
the fourth quarter set a postwar record, and the annual volume of tax-
i 
exempt debt sales for 1970 resumed the secular upward trend which had 
been interrupted in 1969. Heavy purchases of municipal securities by 
commercial banks made it possible for the tax-exempt market to absorb 
the sharp increase in the supply of bonds at declining yields. 
Federal net cash borrowing in the fourth quarter of 1970 rose 
by $1.5 billion, as Treasury receipts continued to decline at a faster 
rate than expenditures. 
Net borrowing by Federal agencies was almost 
unchanged between the third and fourth quarters. Although a new agency, 
the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, entered the market in late 
1970, net borrowings by the other housing-oriented agencies declined 
somewhat. 
Federal Government Borrowing and Cash Balance 
(Quarterly totals in billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted) 
Item 
B udget surplus or deficit 
cash borrowings or 
r ePayments(-) If 
Other means of financing If 
Change in cash balance 
Memo: 
Net borrowing by Federally-
sponsored credit agencies 3f 
1969 
1970 
IV 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
-5.6 
-3.5 
8.7 
-7.8 
-8.9 
5.1 
2.0 
-6.4 
7.4 
8.9 
- .8 
3.1 
-1.2 
1.2 
- .7 
-1.3 
1.6 
1.1 
.8 
- .7 
2.9 
3.6 
1.5 
1.6 
1.5 
^cncies to private ownership. 
Checks issued less checks paid and other accrued items. 
^ 
Includes debt of FHLBB, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, 
Federal Land Banks, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, Banks for Cooperatives, 
FNMA (including discount notes and GNMA-guaranteed bonds). 
P - Preli rainary. 

43 C 
- 2 -
Interest rates. Short-term interest rates continued their 
downward trend during the fourth quarter, and by year-end rates on 
Treasury bills, commercial paper, and Federal funds were 300 basis points 
more below their January 1970 levels. For the first time since 1968, 
the Federal Reserve discount rate was lowered, in two stages, in order 
to bring it more into line with other money market rates. Two further 
barter-point reductions in the discount rate were made in January, and 
in early February, as market interest rates continued to decline. 
Bank reliance on borrowings from the Federal Reserve was reduced, however, 
as 
n Pressures on bank reserve positions eased further. 
Yields on long-term bonds dropped during the fourth quarter in 
Pite of heavy new financing, especially by corporations and State and 
governments. 
Rates on long-term Government bonds were down by 
G than 60 basis 
points, while yields on corporate and tax-exempt bonds 
about 80 and 90 basis points, respectively. 
Since rate declines in 
th short-term end of the market had been even more precipitate, however, 
eads between long- and short-term rates remained wide. 
These large 
spreads persisted through January 1971, as the rate of decline in 
the 
l o 
long-term yields slowed down. Corporate bond yields fell about 
6 0 b a 
a s i s points, but rates on long-term Government and municipal 
es edged down by about 10 basis points, on average. 
.
v5 • V -
A.SUi 

s 
MCMEi 
jy^TdaWJi^irp^^ BRgmroTagffgggWfj JVI: u uiaun WB -U Mjnuppn 
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS, SEASONALLY ADJUSTED 
l y 
a v e r a 8
e s 
o f daily figures for member banks. Total and non-
r e s e r v e s 
a r e adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in reserve 
Q
l l l U s m
 e t l t P
e r c e n t : a 8
e s ' 
Nonborrowed reserves are total reserves adjusted 
tot i
1 
bank borrowings from the Federal Reserve. Excess reserves 
reserves less required reserves. Latest figures, December. 
R E S E R V E S : 
NOT SEASONALLY ADJUSTED 
BORROWINGS FROM 
FEDERAL RESERVE 
NET BORROWED RESERVES ij 
urn 
n i l ! 
1 
i 
..HI 
EXCESS RESERVES 
T O T A L 
NONBORROWED 
26 
< 

*ANK CREDIT 
COMPONENTS 
CHANGE, BILLIONS OF DOLLARS 
4 
th
 
n a | | y a d 
• • GXSSWSMmMM MIIIMII 
MI 
e,r ^Oldino I U S t e d 
L o a r , s adjusted for transfers between banks and 
c°mpanies, affiliates, subsidiaries, or foreign branches. 
BANK LOANS 
M A J O R 
C O M P O N E N T S 
449 
BUSINESS 
CHANGE, BILLIONS OF DOLLARS 
- 4 
CONSUMER 
-REAL ESTATE 
-
r ~ i 
i — i 
— . 
i — i 
i 
—• — 
.. 
SECURITY 
r ~ i 
- 2 
1 — 1 
: 
i 
- 2 
Q4 
1969 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
1970 
Q4 
Seasonally adjusted. Adjusted for transfers between banks and their 
holding companies, affiliates, subsidiaries, or foreign branches. 
NONBANK SAVINGS ACCOUNTS 
ANNUAL RATE OF CHANGE, PER CENT 
10 
Q3 
1969 
Q4 
Q1 
Q2 
1970 
Q3 
Seasonally adjusted. 

450 
• n t e r e s t 
r a t e s 
SHORT-TERM 
_ 
FEDERAL FUNDS 
COMMERCIAL PAPER. 
MONTHS 
PER CENT PER ANNUM 
U.S. Treasury bills, market yields on 3-month issues; prime commercial 
pr|?
er> dealer offering rates; FHA, weighted averages of private secondary market 
it\d
C°
S 
n e w ~ h o m e 30-year mortgages converted to annual yield (dashed line 
t g t
l C a t e s Period of adjustment of change in contractual interest rate); corpo-
^ 
bonds, weighted averages of new publicly offered bonds rated Aaa, Aa, and 
Moody's Investors Service and adjusted to an Aaa basis; U.S. Govt, bonds, 
yields adjusted to 20-year constant maturity by U.S. Treasury; State 
local govt, bonds (20 issues, mixed quality), Bond Buyer. 
Monthly averages except FHA (based on quotations for one day each month). 
