t 
Minutes for 
June 12, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1.945 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Thursday, June 12, 1969. 
The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:45 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Doyle, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Report by Mr. Solomon. Mr. Robert Solomon, who had just 
returned from a Basle meeting of experts on the Eurocurrency market, 
reported the mixed views expressed by participants concerning the 
effects on their economies of current U.S. monetary policy, with par-
ticular reference to the large borrowings of Eurodollars by U.S. banks. 

is 16 
6/12/69 
-2-
In his comments, which it was understood would be supplemented by a 
report at the time of the next meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee, he indicated that there was general recognition of the need 
for a vigorous effort to combat inflation in this country and that the 
complaints by some of the parties were restricted for the most part to 
the Regulation Q ceiling rates and the effect thereof on Eurodollar 
flows. 
Bank of America. It was reported that representatives of Bank 
of America National Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco, 
California, had raised the question informally whether, particularly 
in light of the Board's letter of June 3, 1969, there would be objec-
tion if the bank solicited time deposits from the Bank for International 
Settlements through its Virgin Islands branch. Bank of America main-
tained that it had lost a substantial amount of such deposits to London 
branches of other U.S. banks. 
It was not clear why the deposits in question had been lost, 
although it was suggested that the BIS may have desired a guarantee of 
the availability of such deposits in the U.S. as well as London. This 
raised a question with regard to the practices of the competitor banks 
to whom Bank of America reportedly had lost deposits. 
It was understood that no indication of lack of objection 
would be given to Bank of America until more information had been 
obtained on the matter to permit reaching a better judgment. 

B 
'W 
6/12/69 
- 3 -
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Robert Solomon, 
Molony, Cardon, and Partee then withdrew from the meeting. 
Chairman Martin discussed with the Board recent developments 
with respect to the proposed extension of the tax surcharge, following 
which the meeting adjourned. 
i-'V.. 
V V: 
IS. 
