* • MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 5, 1970 

1400 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 5, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Messrs. Morris, Hayes, Eastburn, Hickman, 
Heflin, Kimbrel, Francis, Galusha, 
Clay, Coldwell, and Swan, Presidents 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and 
San Francisco, respectively 
Mr. Baughman, First Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chairman Burns stated that he wanted to discuss informally 
the contents of his memorandum of April 7, 1970, addressed to the 
Board, outlining a proposal to develop a general guide to conduct 
for senior System officials. He indicated that he would like to 
appoint a committee, consisting perhaps of two Governors and two 
Presidents, that could consider this matter and develop a brief 
report that could be distributed for consideration. He did not 
have in mind the development of a detailed or explicit code of 
ethics, but rather the stimulation of a discussion among senior 
System officials of the problems in this area and the development 
of some very generally worded guide to actions on the part of such 

1411 
5/5/70 
-2-
officials. He contemplated that the chief value of this effort 
would be to stimulate an exchange of experience and ideas, against 
the background of which each President and Governor could reflect 
more deliberately when occasions arose in which such officials 
needed to make a judgment as to the propriety of specific actions. 
Chairman Burns made it clear that he had no particular 
action by any individual in mind in proposing this study, but 
rather that it was an area of possible System exposure with which 
he had been concerned for a number of months, extending back even 
before he had formally assumed his present position. This was not 
a major current problem confronting the System, but it was an area 
of some possible vulnerability that it was wise to attend to in 
recognition of the heightened spirit of criticism concerning ethical 
standards that was prevalent in many quarters today. 
M r . 
i k . C i c o . * , 
k a i o r 
V : t c s 
. 
i 
r 
•: 
• Y . 
. <:«..} v i . 
f u 
-v: 
In response to a question, Chairman Burns indicated that 
the committee members should regard it as appropriate to seek the 
v.;..* .>. 
, 
views of other Governors and Presidents on this subject in the course 
'i,!r; V'/^Y'rY"'^. 1 
Cu s i » a n 
! . it 
; 
of framing their report, but he favored leaving the committee members 
- . 
hi Vici ..•'£ 1.* 
' 
- ' 
• - f . 
a large degree of discretion concerning the particular procedure 
they might use in discharging their assignment. 
*MV '(... . 
• .piaioi-t tl\:it It wo;.;-. 
Co 
• 
aa< ci.n 
Chairman Burns then asked if anyone present had any objec-
tion to proceeding in the manner that he had outlined. When no 
. 
.u JiK; : ur 
S i 
i c i 
C'tl .<;• v. : 
vera 
:.a.-.i.n>, 
objections were expressed, he appointed Governor Robertson as 

1411 
5/5/70 
-3-
Chairman of the committee and named Governor Daane, President Hayes, 
and President Heflin to serve as the other members. 
(Note: At this point in the meeting the Chairman turned 
to a proposal by the Manager of the System Open Market Account that 
the Open Market Committee suspend temporarily the limitation on 
changes in Account holdings of Government securities. For this 
portion of the discussion, the Manager and several other Open 
Market Committee staff members joined the meeting.) 
The meeting then continued with the following staff 
attendance: 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Holmes, Senior Vice President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York and Manager of the System Open Market Account, also 
•vi..:; .. 1 . . : • , 1 • - . ;' 
:> . r - • . w 
. 1 i. 18 > !••.' 
- 
\ 
was present. 
Margin requirements. Chairman Burns stated that a couple 
of months ago, in view of the state of opinion in this city and 
perhaps throughout the country at large to a lesser extent, he 
had been of the opinion that it would be unwise to move on margin 
requirements. The opinion was widespread that the housing market 
was being starved and that State and local governments were being 

1403 
5/5/70 
-4-
denied the credit they needed. Also, the Congress had been consid-
ering legislation, since defeated, that would have required Federal 
Reserve funds to be diverted to the housing area. In such an 
atmosphere, a reduction in margin requirements could have led to 
all kinds of misinterpretations. Furthermore, he had personally 
welcomed a decline in stock market prices, for there is nothing so 
effective in cooling inflationary fervor as some shake-up in the 
stock market. However, before leaving on his recent Latin American 
trip, he had left word with his colleagues that he had become 
increasingly concerned about the behavior of the stock market and 
that he would like the Board to watch developments closely. He 
had become even more concerned during the course of his trip. 
The Chairman said that the Board would like to hear the 
views of the Presidents with regard to the margin requirement issue, 
including whether action should be taken and, if so, when and on 
what scale. He then called upon President Morris, who had recently 
communicated to the Board his concern about the situation and had 
recommended that action to reduce the margin requirements be taken 
promptly. 
President Morris said he believed that a reduction of margin 
requirements to 50 per cent would be appropriate. He was concerned 
about the possibility of a cumulative round of failures among 
brokerage houses. Already there had been a couple of failures, and 

1411 
5/5/70 
-5-
there were many rumors. He had no great conviction that a reduc-
tion in margin requirements would be an effective measure from 
that standpoint, but he thought it might be helpful. The market 
was in need of some sort of good news. Further, stock market credit 
had been contracting sharply, and even if margin requirements were 
cut to 50 per cent he did not believe there would be a dramatic 
rise in stock market credit. He was not convinced that a margin 
requirement cut would be a panacea, but he did not think there 
would be any substantial risk in taking that step and it might 
provide a pacifying influence. 
President Hayes agreed with President Morris that margin 
requirements should be cut and that action today would be desirable. 
Mr. Hayes had had in mind a cut to 60 per cent, but he was not 
prepared to argue that point strongly. However, the cut should be 
large enough to seem substantial. As to the situation in general, 
in the past few weeks there had been more and more indications of 
serious concern about the potential financial crisis in some of 
the brokerage houses. The degree of concern was the greatest that 
he could recall since he had assumed his present position. It had 
been brought to his attention in many telephone calls not only 
from people in the market but from bankers who felt that a margin 
requirement cut, while it would not be any panacea, might be helpful 
psychologically in the current situation, which was marked by an 

1411 
5/5/70 
-6-
extreme lack of confidence, and probably would carry little risk 
because the volume of stock market credit had contracted so sharply. 
The chances of generating a stock market boom appeared to him to be 
very small. He had been reluctant to recommend a reduction of margin 
requirements some time back, partly for reasons such as Chairman 
Burns had mentioned, but he felt the situation had changed to the 
degree that such a recommendation was now warranted. He had also 
had some qualms about the possibility of giving an impression that 
the Federal Reserve was going in for a general easing of credit, 
but there was a good deal of conviction in the marketplace that 
System policy was basically quite restrictive. Certainly there was 
a strong market view that the System was not concerned any more 
about markets and that it was concerned only about the monetary 
aggregates. Some indication that that was not true would be helpful. 
President Hickman expressed a degree of uncertainty, com-
menting that action immediately following a sharp collapse of market 
prices such as had occurred yesterday might give the impression 
that the System was deeply concerned and therefore might have a 
perverse effect. Also, if the margin requirements were lowered to 
60 per cent and prices continued to decline, the problem might 
then be further compounded by the release of poor earnings reports. 
Indications in the Fourth District were that second-quarter reports 
of firms in that area would be disastrous in view of the soft state 

1411 
5/5/70 
-7-
of business plus the effect of the truckers' strike. If margin 
requirements were cut now, at a later date there would less oppor-
tunity to make any significant move. 
President Hayes commented that in any move there was always 
the risk of perverse reaction. There were times when that was a 
controlling consideration and other times when one had to take a 
chance. The state of confidence was now so poor that it could 
hardly be worsened; other factors than the announcement of a margin 
requirement cut would be more important. But this was a move that 
it was within the power of the System to make. 
President Francis said that if margin requirements were 
to be used as an instrument of policy there was every reason why 
they should be moved in both directions periodically. However, in 
view of the limited availability of credit at present in relation 
to the demand, the status of the fight to bring inflation under 
control, and discussions of the possible need for allocations of 
credit, he was not sure it would be wise to change margin require-
ments now and give the impression, at least, of encouraging an 
expansion of credit in the stock market. 
President Hayes commented that the Federal Reserve was 
up against a situation where it might be forced at any time to 
inject funds into the market through the Trading Desk on a 
massive scale, and that could raise questions of a fundamental 

1411 
5/5/70 
-8-
character about what the System was doing on the inflation front. 
If a cut in margin requirements had some psychological effect, it 
might make unnecessary the taking of actions that would present a 
much more difficult problem for the System. He would not want to 
exaggerate the importance of a margin requirement cut, but it would 
be an action in an area where small things tend to have an effect 
one way or another. 
President Morris said he thought President Hayes had made 
a persuasive case that this was the time to demonstrate that the 
Federal Reserve was concerned about the state of markets. Further, 
he saw little risk in taking action, since he did not believe that 
a margin requirement cut would be likely to result in any great 
upsurge of credit in the stock market. The objective should be to 
stop further liquidation. He would look for a favorable psycho-
logical reaction to an announcement. There was, of course, always 
the risk of a perverse reaction, but in his judgment that would 
not be the case here. 
President Kimbrel said he thought events had already had 
an important influence on inflationary psychology. The market 
decline probably had transmitted a message to a lot of people. 
When he thought about the peak of stock prices and their level now, 
he wondered whether the decline had not gone far enough so that the 
hope should be for a plateau for a period of time. There was the 

1411 
5/5/70 
-9-
risk of misinterpretation of a change in margin requirements, but 
he felt that the System should demonstrate an interest in what was 
an important segment of the total market structure. He would favor 
prompt action to reduce the margin requirements to a level of around 
60 per cent. 
President Helfin said he thoroughly agreed with the anal-
ysis of President Hayes. It would be a gamble in a sense to take 
action, but it was a good gamble. He would favor action today. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether there were any views 
with regard to the effect of a cut in margin requirements from the 
standpoint of (1) the incidence of maintenance margin calls by banks 
upon brokers, which appeared to have no direct relationship to the 
Board's margin requirements, (2) the ratio of purpose to nonpurpose 
credit, and (3) dealer capital positions. 
Speaking to the third point, President Hayes brought out 
that brokerage firms typically kept a large proportion of their 
capital in the form of stocks. Any encouragement to the level of 
prices could be of real help in averting failures. 
There followed comments regarding rumors currently cir-
culating with respect to the position of brokerage houses, following 
1
 .... * i 
- i 
. ( 
which President Swan commented that he was a little disturbed by 
the indications of all of the things that people apparently were 
J.. '-• (.:.) 
• 
v 
• ' 
v 1 . 
" 
1 
seeking to accomplish through a cut in margin requirements. While 

IMS 
5/5/70 
-10-
there might be some benefit in prompt action, in his view the best 
course would be to make a modest reduction—the smallest that might 
have some beneficial psychological effect. If there was a cut to 
50 per cent, which was more than the market was talking about, a 
feeling might be generated that in the opinion of the Federal 
Reserve the situation was even worse than it seemed to be. He 
would think in terms of a cut to something like 65 per cent, but 
not below that. 
President Hayes noted that nothing in the current picture 
would appear to argue for a level of margin requirements above the 
normal average. Something around 60 per cent would be in what could 
be considered the normal range, and it would be appropriate to the 
basic factors. 
President Galusha commented that a sharp break in prices 
such as had occurred yesterday could not be attributed to the margin 
requirements. The condition of brokerage houses was a problem that 
should be addressed separately, and he was not sure whether a margin 
requirement cut would be particularly helpful. 
Governor Brimmer commented further on the question of the 
linkage between margin requirements and the capital position of 
brokerage firms. As President Hayes had pointed out, those firms 
held a substantial portion of their capital in market securities. 
With the drop in market prices, the market value of their capital 

1410 
5/5/70 
-11-
had dropped also. An increase in the price level of market secu-
rities, if that in fact followed a margin requirement cut, would 
appreciate their capital and thus strengthen them. If market prices 
did not rise, the effect on capital positions would be neutral at 
best. 
There followed a discussion of the linkages seen by some 
between margin requirements and the prices of market securities, 
after which President Coldwell said he would not object to a small 
reduction in margin requirements as an emergency measure but inquired 
whether such requirements could not be structured just to handle 
the financial problems of the major brokerage houses. He said he 
would not favor a major move on margin requirements for fear of a 
substantial perverse reaction and because such a move might be viewed 
as a retrenchment by the Federal Reserve in its policy of monetary 
restraint. 
After further comments on the difficulties confronting the 
brokerage houses and the extent, if at all, to which those problems 
might be eased by a change in margin requirements, Mr. Baughman 
suggested that there was now being reflected in real estate and 
common stock prices a basic change in point of view that was tending 
to bring them back into a more realistic alignment with the way in 
which he would like to see the economy operate. He would feel 
uncomfortable about a sizable, aggressive margin requirement move 

1411 
5/5/70 
-12-
at the present time because he believed it would be interpreted as 
inviting a heavy flow of credit into the stock market. 
President Eastburn said he had always held a rather purist 
view about the function of margin requirements that perhaps was not 
realistic, namely, that the authority to impose such requirements 
had been given to control the flow of credit in the stock market 
and not specifically the level of prices. In retrospect, it probably 
would have been better if the level of margin requirements had been 
reduced earlier when the volume of stock market credit receded. 
Given his basic view, he would be reluctant about taking a major 
action at the present time. In his opinion, it was not in the 
long-run interest to be juggling the margin requirements around 
because of the level of prices. Instead, the volume of credit 
should be the focus of attention. In principle, he would prefer 
not to make a move on the margin requirements at the moment, although 
he would be less unhappy about a small move. The association in the 
public mind would be with the level of prices rather than the flow 
of credit, and it would not be desirable in the long run to have 
margin requirement changes associated with prices. 
President Hayes noted that a move at the present time could 
be justified on the basis of the contraction in the volume of stock 
market credit, after which Governor Mitchell observed that during 
the period of his association with the Board an effort had been 

lAlZ 
5/5/70 
-13-
made to base the moves on margin requirements on the volume of 
credit and to disavow the price impact. 
President Clay remarked that the stock market was suffering 
from past mistakes and that many people were beginning to wonder 
whether investment in equities was really any great protection against 
inflation. Also, he thought that the System's tight credit policy 
had definitely had some effect on the stock market. He felt that 
something should be done with respect to the margin requirements. 
He did not feel that a reduction would produce any great reaction, 
but it would hold out some hope against the prospect of further 
forced liquidation of securities. A little more credit would be 
available and some money that was sitting around looking for signs 
that the market was bottoming out might come back into the market. 
He was not sure what a margin reduction would do from the stand-
point of the position of the brokers, but it should at least keep 
them from suffering continuing losses and that would be a help. 
Action would indicate that the Federal Reserve was interested in 
not letting the present situation turn into a complete debacle and 
that it was looking even at this particular market from a policy 
standpoint. A cut in margin requirements to 65 per cent would 
seem about right to him, although he would not object to moving to 
60 
or even 50 per cent. He did not think such action would turn 
the market around or that it would give much of a boost to infla-
tionary psychology. 

1411 
5/5/70 
-14-
President Galusha said his thoughts were much along the 
lines of those expressed by President Eastburn. If the System 
responded to market price changes, which in turn were sympathetic 
to factors much broader than quarterly earnings figures, that would 
be a mistake. He would defer to the judgment of people more expert 
than himself as to whether the condition of the brokerage houses 
would warrant a cut in margin requirements and whether the linkage 
was certain enough to produce through such a cut a degree of improved 
liquidity or at least give the firms some breathing time. In sum, 
he would not be opposed to any change in margin requirements now, 
but he would not favor a dramatic move. 
After comments on the sensitivity of the matter and the need 
to maintain strict confidentiality, the meeting recessed and recon-
vened in the Board Room at 2:30 p.m. with all members of the Board 
present and the following staff: 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Stoffels, Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
/ 

5/5/70 
-15-
Chairman Burns called for further discussion of the possi-
bility of action on margin requirements, noting that the Board had 
already had an extensive discussion of the subject and had heard the 
views of the Presidents this morning. He noted that thus far today 
the market was down slightly further. 
There followed comments on actions taken today by the 
Manager of the System Open Market Account, including $550 million 
of repurchase agreements and $200 million of bill purchases. 
Governor Mitchell said he had little to add to what he had 
said yesterday. He had said then that he would be willing to vote 
for a margin requirement cut later this week, including today. He 
hoped that if any action were taken, it would be by a substantial 
majority vote. 
Governor Daane said he had found the views of President 
Morris quite persuasive. As a long-run proposition, he thought 
there was much to be said for the position taken by President 
Eastburn, but in the present circumstances he would move today. 
Governor Maisel suggested that it would be desirable to 
move before the latest unemployment figures were released, pre-
sumably about the end of this week. Today was as good a day for 
the Board to act as any, in his judgment. There was the question 
whether to move to 70 per cent or 60 per cent. The margin require-
ments had not been below 70 per cent since 1963, and it was not 

1411 
5/5/70 
-16-
clear to him that the Board should go lower than that, but it 
appeared to have been customary for the Board, when it acted, 
to cut the requirements by 20 points. 
Governors Mitchell and Daane indicated that they would not 
be willing to move to 50 per cent at this time, after which 
Governor Maisel said he thought his preference would be to move to 
70 per cent, on the argument that it was the announcement effect 
that really counted. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that yesterday he had said that 
he would prefer to wait until after the Federal Open Market Committee 
meeting before taking action. He attached a lot of weight to what 
Governor Mitchell had said about the desirability of a large number 
of Board members voting favorably if action was taken. He had 
listened to what the Presidents were saying this morning, and in 
addition he felt that it would be unfortunate to act after new 
economic news such as the unemployment figures had come into the 
public domain. Therefore, he would be willing to act today, but he 
hoped the reduction would be to 70 per cent rather than 60 per cent. 
Governor Sherrill stated that he would move today and that 
he would prefer a move to 60 per cent. 
Governor Robertson said he was reluctant because he thought 
a move at this time would be unwise. However, he would not like to 
see action taken by less than a unanimous vote. He would not want 

1411 
5/5/70 
-17-
a reduction to less than 70 per cent. Several years ago the Board 
had come to a view informally, as he recalled it, that the desirable 
course over the longer-run would be to get the margin requirements 
up to 70 per cent and let them stay there. Subsequently, the Board 
had moved up further, but he wanted to avoid using changes in the 
requirements in an attempt to influence prices. All things con-
sidered, if the Board wanted to make a modest move, he would vote 
for it, but he would not want to move as low as 60 per cent. 
Chairman Burns summarized the views that had been expressed 
and then suggested, by way of compromise, settling on 65 per cent. 
Governor Robertson said he did not think it would be wise to move 
to that figure. However, he would not want to hold out on a matter 
of 5 points, and accordingly he would go along provided there was 
no change in the retention requirement (70 per cent) applicable to 
undermargined accounts. 
After some discussion of the retention requirement and its 
implications, there was general agreement that the 70 per cent 
retention requirement should not be changed at this time. There 
was also some discussion of the margin requirement applicable to 
purchasing or carrying convertible bonds, and it was generally 
agreed that a reduction from 60 to 50 per cent would be appropriate. 
The Board then voted unanimously to amend, effective May 6, 
1970, the Supplements to Regulation G, Securities Credit by Persons 

1411 
5/5/70 
-18-
Other Than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers, Regulation T, Credit by 
Brokers and Dealers, and Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the 
Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks, to lower the 
margin requirements from 80 to 65 per cent for credit extended by 
brokers, dealers, banks, and other lenders to finance the purchasing 
or carrying of stocks and from 60 to 50 per cent for credit extended 
by such persons to finance the purchasing or carrying of convertible 
bonds. 
the market this afternoon, of a press release in the form attached 
a s Item No. 1. Also attached under that item number are the reg-
ulatory amendments in the form in which they were published in the 
Federal Register. 
The Board authorized the issuance, after the close of 
The meeting then adjourned 
Secretary 

^P'tu..., . . . M 
; 
: 
: 11161 
'•f^utf^V 
Item No. 1 
5/5/70 
For immediate release. 
May 5, 1970 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
lowered its margin requirement for purchasing or carrying stocks from 
to 65 per cent, effective Wednesday (May 6). 
At the same time, the Board lowered the margin requirement 
£°r purchasing or carrying convertible bonds--those that can be con-
verted into stock--from 60 to 50 per cent, also effective Wednesday 
(May 6). 
In making the changes, the Board cited the sharp reduction in 
the use of credit for stock purchases. 
In the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Congress granted the 
of Governors authority to impose margin requirements "for the 
Purpose of preventing the excessive use of credit for the purchase or 
Cnrrying of securities." 
Since the last change in margin requirements in June, 1968, 
they were increased from 70 to 80 per cent for stocks and 50 to 
0 p G r CGnt; £ o r c o n v e rtible bonds, margin credit extended by brokers 
h as dropped from $6.7 billion to $4.5 billion in March, 1970, and the 
number of margin accounts has dropped from 940,000 to 820,000. Mean-
^ile, credit extended by banks for purchasing or carrying securities 
i 
a s declined from a high of $2.8 billion in February, 1969, to $2.4 
bi 
lUion in March, 1970. 

1413 
-2-
Thc action, amending the Board's regulation?* relating to 
stock market credit, v/i11 cover new extensions of credit by brokers 
and dealers (Regulation T), and loans by banks and other lenders 
(Regulations U and C respectively) for the purpose of purchasing or 
carrying securities registered on a national stock exchange or named 
the Board's over-the-counter margin list. 
No change was made in the 70 per cent "retention require-
ment" applicable to undermargined accounts. That requirement 
specifies the portion of the proceeds of a sale of securities from 
G margin account that must be retained in the account if the equity 
l n that account does not match the new margin requirements. 
Federal Reserve margin requirements set the minimum down-
Payment that must be made to purchase a stock or a convertible bond 
0 n credit. Under a 65 per cent margin requirement, a purchaser of 
k'-ock is required to put up 65 per cent of the purchase price in 
cash (or collateral with that much "loan value" under the regulations) 
a t the time of the transaction. He may then obtain credit for the 
remaining 35 per cent of the purchase price. 

TITLte ifc^BMUS Aim BANKING 
1 4 2 0 
CHAPTER It--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
{Regs. G, T, U] 
PART 207--SECURITIES CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER 
THAN BANKS, BROKERS, OR DEALERS 
PART 220--CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
PART 22.1--CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF 
PURCHASING OR CARRYING MARGIN STOCKS 
Maximum Loan Value of Stocks 
and Convertible Bonds 
1. Effective May &, 1970, section 207.5(a) and (b) 
(the Supplement to Regulation G) is amended to read as follows: 
5 207.5 Supplement. 
(a) Maximum loan value of margin securities. For the purpose 
S 207.1, the maximum loan value of any margin securxty, except con-
vertible securities subject to Q 207.1(d), shall be 35 per cent of its 
current market value, as determined by any reasonable method,, 
(b) Maximum loan value of convertible debt securities subject 
-^-JL?07.1(d). For the purpose of § 207.1, the maximum loan value of 
an>T security against which credit is extended pursuant to 5 207.1(d) 
shall be 50 per cent of its current market value, as determined by any 
reasonable method. 
* 
-k 
i< 
2. Effective May 6, 1970, section 220.8(a)(1), (c), and (d) 
Supplement to Regulation T) is amended to read as follows: 

1421 
-2~ 
S 220*8 
• 
( n ) Maximum loan value for general accounts. The maximum 
loan value of securities in a general account subject to § 220.3 
shall be: 
(1) of a registered non-equity security held in the account: 
March 11, 1968, and continuously thereafter, and of a margin equity 
security (except as provided in 5 220.3(c) and paragraphs (b) and (c) 
o f this section), 35 per cent of the current market value of such 
securities, 
* rt * 
( c) Maximum loan value for special convertible debt security 
££count0 
The maximum loan value of a margin security eligible for a 
sPecial convertible security account pursuant to § 220.4(j) shall be 
par cent of the current market value of the security. 
( d) Margin required for short sales. The amount to be included 
l n the adjusted debit balance of a general account, pursuant to § 220.3(d)(3), 
a S m a r8ln required for short sales of securities (other than exempted 
ecurities) shall be 65 per cent of the current market value of each 
security, 
. i ^ 
, 
* * * 
3. Effective May 6, 1970, section 221.4(a) and (b) (the 
Supplement to Regulation U) is amended to read as follows: 
J 
1.4 Supplement. 
(a) Maximum loan value of stocks. For the purpose of § 221,1, 
the maximum loan value of any stock, whether or not registered on a 

14 22 
-3-
national securities exchange, shall be 35 per cent of its current 
market value, as determined by any reasonable method. 
(b) Maximum loan value of convertible debt securities subject 
i£JL_22l.3(t) . For the purpose of § 221.3(t), the maximum loan value 
o f any security against which credit is extended pursuant to § 221.3(t) 
shall be 50 per cent of its current market value, as determined by any 
reasonable method, 
Vc Vr >V 
4a. These amendments are issued pursuant to section 7(b) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g(!>)). The changes are 
t o lower the margin requirements for purchasing or carrying (1) stocks 
from 80 to 65 per cent and (2) Convertible bonds from 60 to '50 per cent. 
b. The requirements of section 553(b) of Title 5, United 
^ates Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred 
pfr 
ective date were not followed in connection with these amendments 
kQcausc following such requirements would have prevented the Board's 
action from becoming effective as promptly as necessary in the public 
Uteres t. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 5, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
rgp 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
^ 
Deputy Secretary 
