Minutes for 
October 11, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
k i l 

3920 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 11, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Rhinehart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Lawrence and Greenspun, Economists, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal of a report to the Comptroller of the Currency on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Lincoln 
National Bank of Chelsea, Chelsea, Massachusetts, into Commonwealth 
National Bank, Boston, Massachusetts. The conclusion read as follows: 

«. V r L w 
] 
10/11/67 
-2-
There is little, if any, competition existing 
between Commonwealth National Bank, Boston, and Lincoln 
National Bank, Chelsea, although there is some potential 
for competition between them in view of State branching 
laws. Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be slightly adverse. 
After discussion, a report on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of The Hamlin National Bank of Holcomb, Holcomb, 
New York, into The Canandaigua National Bank and Trust Company, Canan-
daigua, New York, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comp-
troller of the Currency. 
In the form in which approved, the conclusion 
read as follows: 
The proposed merger of The Hamlin National Bank of 
Holcomb, Holcomb, New York, and The Canandaigua National 
Bank and Trust Company, Canandaigua, New York, would elim-
inate the minimal amount of competition existing between 
them and a more significant amount of potential competi-
tion; however, the latter possibility seems remote in view 
of the common ownership and management. 
It would increase 
the Canandaigua bank's already dominant position in Ontario 
County and eliminate an alternative source of banking ser-
vices. 
On the other hand, the merger would probably pro-
vide in the Holcomb area more effective competition to the 
major banks that compete in the county. 
Overall, the effect 
of the proposal on competition would not be adverse. 
Unanimous approval was also given to the transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of The Bank of Wendell, Wendell, North 
Carolina, into First Union National Bank of North Carolina, Charlotte, 
North Carolina. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
There appears to be little competition existing 
between The Bank of Wendell and First Union National Bank 
of North Carolina, Charlotte, and potential for more com-
petition between them is limited. 
The overall competitive 
effect of the proposal would be slightly adverse. 

10/11/67 
-3-
Statement of policy on computer applications. 
There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated October 10, 1967, from the Computer Uses 
and Procedures Committee (which included Governors Mitchell and Sherrill 
at Board level) suggesting two amendments to the Board's August 11, 1966, 
statement of policy on computer applications within the Federal Reserve 
System. 
The memorandum indicated that the Committee was conducting an 
intensive review of the Board's data processing facilities, measured in 
terms of the relationships between available resources and the require-
ments of the Board's research and statistical programs. As the study 
proceeded, a number of policy questions would be brought before the 
Board for consideration, either in connection with the 1968 budget or 
otherwise. Meanwhile, the Committee had reviewed the Board's August 
1966 statement and recommended the adoption by the Board of two amend-
ments to that statement which the Committee considered appropriate at 
this time. The suggested amendments were as follows: 
1. Change the first sentence of the first paragraph on page 5 
of the statement to read: 
As a general policy, full-time programmers are to 
be located in the Division of Data Processing and will 
operate under its supervision. 
2. 
Insert after the first paragraph on page 5 of the statement 
the following paragraph: 

10/11/67 
-4-
3 9 2 3 
The Board recognizes that effective application of 
statistical and mathematical techniques to the solution 
of problems confronting the Federal Reserve, and the use 
of the computer for purposes other than routine, stan-
dardized data processing, often requires that the analyst 
himself develop considerable capability in computer tech-
nology. This capability includes--but goes well beyond--
knowledge of advanced programming systems. 
It is appro-
priate, therefore, that expertise in computer technology 
and applications be housed not only in the Division of 
Data Processing but also in other divisions. 
Following comments by Governor Mitchell on the above described 
recommendations, Governor Maisel inquired whether significant changes 
in policy were implied in the amendments, particularly since personnel 
appeared to be involved. Governor Mitchell commented that the original 
statement had, in effect, established a "closed shop" as far as program-
ming was concerned, but that the proposed amendments retreated somewhat 
from that position. Mr. Brill commented that the proposed changes in 
the statement more or less recognized conditions as they presently 
existed. 
In his view, neither amendment would result in substantive 
changes in operating practices. Mr. Byrne indicated that the amend-
ments were acceptable to the Data Processing Division. 
In response to a question by Governor Daane, Mr. Brill stated 
that the second amendment contemplated, among other things, continua-
tion of the training program in computer technology for users. 
Governor 
Mitchell observed that many of the new economists hired by the Board, 
as well as others in the research divisions, had considerable expertise 
in the application of computer techniques to research projects. 
Such 

3,924. 
10/11/67 
-5-
persons would have the opportunity of continuing to develop their 
capabilities along those lines. 
Governor Mitchell, in reply to a question by Governor Brimmer, 
stated that access to the computer was being extended on a limited basis 
to others than personnel in the Division of Data Processing, although 
control of machine time remained with the Director of that Division. 
In substance, a modified "closed shop" policy was in effect as far as 
access to the machine was concerned. 
Governor Brimmer inquired about the extent of implementation 
of the data processing policies adopted by the Board in August 1966, 
and Governor Mitchell indicated that further reports to the Board by 
the Computer Uses and Procedures Committee were in process. He said 
that a description of projects requiring computer time was being pre-
pared and that in a few weeks the Board should be in a position to 
review the scope of the work being done and what priorities needed to -
be established. 
A backlog existed because there were more computer 
demands than could be accommodated, even with some supplementation of 
resources by outside programming contracts. 
The proposed amendments to the policy statement of August 11, 
1966, were then approved unanimously. 
Separation of coin at Federal Reserve Banks (Item No. 1). 
There 
had been distributed a letter dated October 10, 1967, from Assistant 
Secretary of the Treasury Wallace to the Board regarding the policy 

3925 
10/11/67 
-6-
adopted in July 1967 with respect to the distribution and separation of 
dimes and quarters. That policy was outlined in a telegram to all Reserve 
Banks dated July 18, 1967. 
The letter from the Treasury indicated that because of the rapid 
inventory buildup of mixed circulated dimes and quarters at the Federal 
Reserve Banks and branches, and at the Mint, all facilities were quickly 
reaching maximum capacity. The Treasury recommended that the function 
of separating the silver and clad coins be assigned to the Federal 
Reserve Banks and branches. 
It suggested that this procedure would 
not only relieve the space problem but would eliminate the cost of 
shipping the coin to the Mint and the necessity for returning the cir-
culated clad coin to the Reserve Banks. 
In addition, the Treasury letter expressed the hope that this 
operation could begin at the Reserve Banks by December 15, 1967, and 
that the Banks could assume the cost ($4,000 each) of 25 authenticating 
machines, other than the 14 American Machine and Foundry machines, which 
had been referred to in the July statement concerning coin distribution 
but on which delivery would not begin until January 1968. The substi-
tute machines, while slower, were simpler in design and cheaper; it was 
hoped that at least 10 would be available by December 15. 
Mr. Farrell, in reviewing the Treasury's letter, stated that 
while the separation of coins at the Reserve Banks would require more 
work on their part, he believed the request to be an appropriate one. 

- > Q O fZ 
10/11/67 
-7-
He recommended that a letter be addressed to all Reserve Banks indicat-
ing that in the Board's opinion the request was appropriate, and suggest-
ing that the detailed arrangements for acquisition and placement of 
separating machines could most effectively be handled by the Presidents' 
Conference through its Committee on Currency and Coin. 
With respect to the machines that the Treasury now suggested be 
purchased by the Reserve Banks, Governor Brimmer noted that the manu-
facturer apparently wanted a 3-month period to deliver more than the 
first 10 machines. He asked whether that was sufficient and also 
whether the recommended program was intended to be only an interim 
arrangement. Mr. Farrell replied that the delivery time was not suffi-
cient, but that the Treasury had told him this morning that it hoped 
25 machines could be made available in 60 days. He added that the 
machines, although relatively slow, could probably be useful for 3 or 
4 years, particularly at some branches. 
The Board then approved unanimously the transmittal of a letter 
to the Presidents of all Reserve Banks advising of receipt of the Trea-
sury letter, indicating the Board's belief that the request contained 
therein was appropriate, and suggesting that the implementation of the 
proposal be arranged by the Presidents' Conference through the Committee 
on Currency and Coin. A copy of the letter subsequently transmitted to 
the Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 1. 
Most members of the staff withdrew at this point, and there 
ensued a discussion of developments in connection with the voluntary 

10/11/67 
-8-
3927 
foreign credit restraint program for financial institutions, as pro-
posed for 1968, principally on the basis of a report by Governors Daane 
and Brimmer. 
It was understood that the matter would be considered fur-
ther by the Board after Governor Robertson's return. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Asso-
ciation), New York, New York, acknowledging 
receipt of notice of its intent to establish 
an additional branch in Germany, to be located 
in Munich. 
On October 11, 1967, actions were taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated authority 
as indicated by the following letters, copies 
of which are attached under the respective 
item numbers indicated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
2 
Francisco approving the appointment of 
Timothy L. Ernst and Ronald C. Beckman as 
assistant examiners. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor- 
3 
poration regarding the application of Bremen 
State Bank, Tinley Park, Illinois, for con-
tinuation of deposit insurance after with-
drawal from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor- 
4 
poration regarding the application of Pawnee 
County Bank, Pawnee City, Nebraska, for con-
tinuation of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 

M R P 
•Wf: 
-V 
10/11/67 
-9-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Schuylkill Haven Trust Company, 
Schuylkill Haven, Pennsylvania, waiving the 
requirement of six months' notice of with-
drawal from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 
8928 
Item No. 
£ / y i / 
Secretary 
> • (• 
i' 
mm • 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
10/11/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 11, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
Enclosed is a copy of a letter dated October 10, 1967, 
from Assistant Secretary of the Treasury Wallace to the Board with 
regard to the handling of dimes and quarters at the Reserve Banks. 
As you will note from this letter, the Treasury has concluded that 
it will have to call upon the Reserve Banks to assist the Mint in 
separating the silver coin from the clad coin. 
It expresses the 
hope that this operation could begin at the Reserve Banks by 
December 15, 1967, and that the Banks could assume the cost of 
acquiring the separating machines. The separating machines that 
the Treasury now suggests using are described in a "proposal" to 
the Director of the Mint submitted by American Electronic Coin 
Processing, Inc. under date of October 2, 1967; a copy of that 
Proposal is also enclosed. 
The Board believes that, under the circumstances, it is 
appropriate for the Reserve Banks to undertake the separation 
operation requested by the Treasury in its letter. It believes 
that detailed arrangements for acquisition and placement of 
separating machines could most effectively be handled by the 
Presidents' Conference, through its Committee on Currency and 
Coin, and it understands that Chairman Swan plans to discuss the 
matter by telephone with Mr. Hickman, Chairman of that Committee. 
Copies of this letter are being sent directly to each Reserve Bank 
President because of the element of urgency indicated by the 
Treasury in its letter. 
Very truly yours, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 
T 0 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

TREASURY DEPARTMENT 
8 9 3 * * 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
20220 
I S U N T S t C R E T A R Y 
. 
* >
:
d — — ; •
-
* 
O C T 1 0 1967'
1 
A > 7 
To the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Gentlemen: 
• 
I wish to review with you the July 18, 1967, policy on distribution 
of dimes and quarters, and thank you for the excellent cooperation the 
Treasury is receiving in carrying out this policy. 
I have been watching very closely, and with much concern recently, 
the fast inventory buildup of mixed circulated climes and quarters at 
the Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, and at the Mints. All facilities 
are quickly reaching maximum capacity. 
• ' 
) 
It is very clear now that the separating operation of this coin will 
also have to be done at the Federal Reserve Banks and Branches. Not only 
is this necessary due to the space problem, but it would eliminate the 
cost of shipping the coin to the Mints, where no additional space is 
expected to become available, and the necessity for returning the circulated 
clad to the banks. 
I would hope that this separation operation could begin at the banks 
by December 15, 1967. 
In addition to the fourteen American Machine and Foundry machines 
referred to in the July statement, which will not begin delivery until 
January, 1968, the Treasury recently witnessed the successful demonstration 
°f another authenticating machine which is slower than the AMF prototype 
being used at the Philadelphia Mint, but is much simpler in design and 
operation, and of course mucli cheaper. At least ten or more of these 
machines would be available for delivery by December 15, 1967. I hope 
that the Federal Reserve Banks can assume the cost of these machines which 
would be $4,000 each for the first 25 machines. A demonstration of the two 
Machines referred to could be scheduled in Philadelphia in the near future. 
I hope that you will promptly give serious consideration to this 
u*gent matter. 
Sincerely, 
' 
/ 
'Robert A . Wallace 

3 9 3 1 
BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/11/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 12, 1967. 
Mr. Jrwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In accordance with the requests contained in your 
letters of October 6, 1967, the Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointments of Timothy L 
Ernst and Ronald C. Beckman as assistant examiners for the 
i 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, effective today. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

RESfrV 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/11/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 11, 1967 
The Honorable K . A . Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Mr. Randall: 
Reference is made to your letter of October 9, 1967, 
concerning the application of the Bremen State Bank, Tinley 
Park, Illinois, for continuance of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations states, on behalf of the Board of Governors, that 
there have been no corrective programs urged upon the bank, or 
agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, and there 
are no programs that the Director would advise be incorporated as 
conditions of admitting the bank to membership in the Corporation 
as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

ySaSHSfe-. 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
10/11/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 11, 1967 
The Honorable K. A . Randall. Chairman, 
* 
» 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Mr. Randall: 
Reference is made to your letter of October 9, 1967, 
concerning the application of the Pawnee County Bank, Pawnee 
City, Nebraska, for continuance of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations states, on behalf of the Board of Governors, that 
there have been no corrective programs urged upon the bank, or 
agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, and there 
are no programs that the Director would advise be incorporated as 
conditions of admitting the bank to membership in the Corporation 
as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
V* 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
PHILADELPHIA 
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 5 
10/11/67 
October 11, 1967 
Board, of Directors 
The Schuylkill Haven Trust Company 
Schuylkill Haven, Pennsylvania 17972 
Gentlemen: 
Under date of Oct (J 
signified its intention to wi 
System and has r e q u e s t s waiver 
such withdrawal. 
institution has 
Federal Reserve 
months' notice of 
On bifhal^of tHe Bfcard of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve Systenf acting una^r a^legateaS^uthority, the Federal 
Reserve Bank oKjh^^(lelphl\waWe6 the requirement of six 
monthsL-aotice o l w S b d r a v a l y Uader the provisions of 
the BSara^s Rjj^ulaiaon H, your institution may 
irminatDsm or itp^membership at any time within 
monrns from the\ata/6hat notice of intention to with-
Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank 
the Federal Reserve Bank stock issued to 
istitutUbn,(such stock will be cancelled and appropriate 
Le thereon. 
^ j ^ ^ h e date withdrawal takes place the certificate 
membership should be returned to the Federal Reserve Bank 
Philadelphia. 
Very truly yours, 
4 . a. Caqpfctll 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 
