Minutes for 
June 30, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
U > 

2 6 7 H 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, June 30, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Sigel, 
Eckert, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and Kelty 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Baker, Gekker, Gemmill, 
and Ruckdeschel of the Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Fry discussed current and prospective 
trends in bank reserves, after which Mr. Kelty commented on developments 
in the market for Government securities. Mr. Baker then reported on 
conditions in foreign exchange markets. Copies of the several tables 
and charts distributed for the purpose of today's review have been 
placed in the Board's files. 

2S71 
6/30/67 
- 2 -
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Sherman, 
Bakke, Brill, Holland, Solomon, Cardon, Fauver, Partee, Sammons, and 
Leavitt, and Mrs. Semia, and the following entered the room: 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Poundstone, Review 
Examiners, Division of Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and San 
Francisco on June 29, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Application of Bank of Sussex County. There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated June 22, 1967, from the Division of Examinations 
recommending approval of a proposed investment in bank premises by The 
Bank of Sussex County, Franklin, New Jersey. The proposed expenditure 
arose from revised plans for quarters for a branch in Hampton Township, 
the establishment of the branch having earlier been approved by the 
Board. The expenditure now proposed would bring the bank's total invest-
ment in bank premises to an amount greater than its capital stock. The 
bank had been placed on the "problem" list after its most recent exam-
ination, and while improvement was being made in the bank's credit 
department and in elimination of criticized assets, its capital position 
had not improved and frequent and continuous efforts on the part of 
both Federal and State supervisors had not been successful in obtaining 

6/30/67 
- 3 -
sufficient new capital. Therefore the Division of Examinations, 
although believing that the investment now proposed was not unduly 
large and that no objection should be raised to it, recommended that 
the letter of approval include a paragraph that would express the 
Board's continuing concern regarding the bank's capital position and 
ask to be informed what steps were being taken to strengthen it. 
Governor Brimmer suggested language regarding the need for 
capital improvement that would convey a stronger position than the 
Division had recommended, after which Governor Robertson questioned 
whether the Board should approve the proposed investment in the absence 
of a definite commitment by the bank to a capital improvement program, 
a view in which Governor Daane joined. 
The Board then agreed that the bank would be advised informally 
that approval of the proposed investment was being held in abeyance 
pending the development of firm plans for capital improvement. 
Permission to maintain reduced reserves (Item No. 1). Unani-
mous approval was given to a letter to Jacksonville National Bank, 
Jacksonville, Florida, granting its request for permission to maintain 
reduced reserves. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Foreign activities of member banks (Items 2 and 3). On 
June 23, 1967, the Board discussed the response to be made to a 
request by Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Banking and Cur-
rency for a report on the Board's supervision of corporations doing 

O ^ i yry 
/CO /•> 
6/30/67 
- 4 -
foreign banking and other foreign financing under the Federal Reserve 
Act, together with an examination of the foreign activities of national 
banks. It was indicated that the report was desired by the Domestic 
Finance Subcommittee in order to examine in the light of present condi-
tions the statutory standards underlying enactment of the Edge Act in 
1919. Chairman Patman also asked for certain information regarding 
Edge and agreement corporations, foreign branches of member banks, and 
foreign banks in which member banks had invested directly or indirectly 
pursuant to the recent amendment to section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act. Another request relating to investments of Edge and agreement 
corporations had been received from Congressman Fino of New York. 
The June 23 discussion, which was based on a draft reply and 
report submitted with a memorandum of June 21 from the Examinations 
and Legal Divisions, sought to determine what would be the broadest 
scope of response that might be made to Chairman Patman within the 
June 30 time allowance he had specified, and consistent with the need 
to guard against disclosure of information that could be harmful to 
individual institutions. As a result, the staff was requested to revise 
the June 21 draft response in the light of the discussion. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated June 28, 1967, 
from the Examinations and Legal Divisions submitting a revised report 
and attachments. The attachments contained the following information 
(as of December 31, 1966, except as otherwise indicated): 

t Hh 
6/30/67 
- 5 -
A list of overseas branches of member banks, corporations 
engaged in foreign banking and financing, and foreign 
subsidiaries of the corporations. 
Assets and liabilities (condensed) of overseas branches, 
by country, of individual member banks, and geographic 
distribution summary of all overseas branches of member 
banks. 
Assets and liabilities of section 25 and 25(a) corpora-
tions engaged in foreign banking and financing (by 
individual corporations). 
Equity investments of Edge and agreement corporations in 
percentage detail for ownership interest of 10 per cent 
or more (by individual corporations). 
Number and total assets of (1) overseas branches of U.S. 
banks and banking corporations, and (2) Edge and agree-
ment corporations in operation, 1955, 1960, 1962, 1965, 
and 1966 (aggregates). 
Cost of equity investments of Edge and agreement corpora-
tions in detail for ownership interest of 10 per cent or 
more (by individual corporations). 
The staff recommended that, when approved by the Board, a copy of the 
report, without attachments, be furnished to each Edge and agreement 
corporation. 
Mr. Leavitt commented in some detail on the material now pro-
posed to be furnished, which reflected the consensus reached during 
the Board's discussion on June 23. He called attention particularly 
to the fact that condition figures as of the end of 1966 for foreign 
branches were shown by country and by individual banks as well as in 
the aggregate, which resulted in many cases in providing a balance 
sheet for individual branches of U.S. banks located in specified foreign 

2675 
6/30/67 
- 6 -
countries. It had been ascertained that the Comptroller of the Currency 
did not object to furnishing the Banking and Currency Committee data 
relating to national banks in the manner presented in the tabulations. 
Some of the information contained in the various tabulations was gener-
ally available to the public, but a considerable amount had been regarded 
as confidential, and it was planned to indicate that fact on certain 
tabulations to be sent to Mr. Patman. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the data regarding assets and 
liabilities of overseas branches, by bank and by country, which he con-
sidered the heart of the response. He inquired whether it was contem-
plated that this information would be made public. It had been his 
understanding at the June 23 meeting that if the Comptroller agreed, 
this information would be submitted to the Committee with the expecta-
tion that it might publish it. 
Governor Daane, who had not been present during the earlier 
discussion, asked whether the individual banks were aware that the 
information might be made public. He found it difficult to justify 
not indicating to Mr. Patman that individual bank data were confiden-
tial, when the Board's general position was not to reveal such informa-
tion regarding a bank's operations. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that during the earlier discussion 
there had been a strong feeling that this information should be fur-
nished in responding to the request of the Committee. 

2G7G 
6/30/67 
- 7 -
Governor Daane expressed the view that furnishing confidential 
information to a Congressional Committee with a confidential label was 
one thing, but providing it without such a label and in a spirit of 
expectation that it would be made public was different. 
Mr. Cardon commented that if the Board asked the Committee to 
keep any part of the information confidential, it had to have a reason 
for doing so, and he was not aware of any reason for insisting that the 
figures regarding assets and liabilities of foreign branches be kept 
confidential except that they had not been published in this form 
before. The misgivings expressed about supplying the data were caused 
in part by a lack of knowledge as to whether any institution would be 
harmed if the data were made public. It appeared to him that the only 
way to find out was to ask the banks involved. Perhaps a letter could 
be sent to them saying that the Board had given the information to the 
Committee, thus inviting their reaction. 
Governor Daane questioned whether the information should be 
given to the Committee in advance of getting the reaction of the banks. 
He had a feeling that giving breakdowns of information regarding indi-
vidual branches could cause damage to the parent banks. 
Governor Robertson observed that the other side of the picture 
was that the Congress, in order to consider what legislation was needed 
or whether existing legislation was adequate, was entitled to informa-
tion submitted to the Board in regular reports. He believed that the 

<.0 4 t 
6/30/67 
- 8 -
Board should make available to the Congress any information that would 
be helpful in its work, and it could not ignore the possibility that 
the Committee would release the data. Even as at present constituted, 
the proposed response would omit some details, because data were lumped 
for all branches of any particular bank in one country. His inclination 
was to transmit the material now before the Board, even though it would 
not fully meet the request, in the hope the information would satisfy 
the need of the Committee. 
Governor Daane observed that giving aggregates for all of a 
bank's branches in one country would disclose the operations of indi-
vidual branches where a bank had only one branch in a country. While 
he did not think the Board should withhold information from the Congress, 
it would be his suggestion that at a minimum the questioned attachments 
be marked confidential and the transmittal letter make it clear that 
the figures were furnished only for the information of the Committee. 
During the ensuing exchange of views regarding the extent to 
which the Committee should be requested to treat particular parts of 
the material as confidential, there was agreement with a suggestion by 
Governor Robertson that the Committee be informed that since some of 
the data were confidential, if public release was contemplated it would 
be appreciated if the Committee would first review the matter with the 
Board. There was also agreement with a suggestion by Mr. Hexter that 
the material for which confidentiality was requested be clearly speci-
fied, and with a recommendation by Governor Brimmer for a regrouping 

6/30/67 
- 9 -
of the attachments in such a way as to separate more clearly the 
information to which the confidentiality request applied. Under that 
regrouping, the confidentiality request applied to the data on assets 
and liabilities of overseas branches of member banks, by individual 
bank and by country; to equity investments of Edge and agreement cor-
porations in percentage detail for ownership interest of 10 per cent 
or more; to assets and liabilities of section 25 and 25(a) corporations 
engaged in foreign banking and financing; and to cost of equity invest-
ments of Edge and agreement corporations in detail for ownership inter-
est of 10 per cent or more. 
Mr. Sherman expressed the view that the question whether to 
release data for individual foreign branches was similar in some respects 
to the question that had come up from time to time in regard to data on 
individual branches within the United States. The Board had never quite 
reached a decision to make such figures generally available, although 
it had published breakdowns of deposits such as county totals. One 
difficulty was that the balance sheet of a branch did not have the same 
significance as that of an entire bank; yet there seemed to be no good 
reason why some individual branch data, such as figures of deposits and 
Perhaps loans, should not be available to the public, as were the fig-
ures for unit banks competing with such branches. As to the information 
assembled for Mr. Patman, it was difficult to see why such information 

2679 
6/30/67 
-10-
for all foreign branches of a particular bank should not be made public 
Nor would the question of meeting other requests be resolved simply by 
requesting confidentiality for the information furnished Mr. Patman. 
In view of the general move toward making more material available under 
the Public Information Act, it might be desirable at this time for the 
Board to undertake to make available more data regarding branch opera-
tions, both foreign and domestic. As to the present request, by follow 
ing Governor Robertson's suggestion of asking the House Banking and 
Currency Committee to review with the Board any plans for making public 
the data heretofore regarded as confidential, it would also be quite 
feasible to present to banks operating foreign branches a plan regard-
ing the data on foreign banking that should be made public. 
Governor Daane commented that even though it might be true that 
the parent banks would have no objection to release of information 
regarding their foreign branches, it would not seem to be good bank 
relations to have a bank, without forewarning or discussion, read in 
the press that details of its branch operations had been released. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that the assemblage of financial 
statements regarding foreign branches and Edge and agreement corpora-
tions provided material in which there probably would be a great deal 
°f public interest. He suggested that, rather than wait for the Com-
mittee to bring up the subject of possible release, the corporations 
and parent banks involved be informed that the Board itself was consid-
ering publication of the data. 

2fi80 
6/30/67 
-11-
Governor Daane concurred; he would favor furnishing the infor-
mation to the Committee with an indication that specified parts were 
confidential, after which the institutions might be approached and, if 
they offered no persuasive negative reasons, the data be released as a 
Board publication. 
Mr. Hackley observed that the data regarding assets and liabili-
ties of individual foreign branches might reasonably be considered to 
fall within the exemptions provided in the Public Information Act, 
although of course that did not mean that the Board should not make the 
information public if it chose to do so. However, the banks that had 
furnished the information no doubt regarded it as having been given in 
/ 
confidence and would not expect the Board to publish it. Therefore, 
it would seem desirable that they be put on notice if the Board contem-
plated such publication. There was no such question in regard to the 
Congress, since the Public Information Act specifically provided that 
no information might be withheld from Congress. 
Mr. Sammons remarked that U.S. banks were required to publish 
financial statements regarding their branches in many of the countries 
where such branches were located, especially in Latin America and con-
tinental Europe. Therefore, the information in question was a matter 
of public knowledge at least in some countries. As for Governor 
Brimmer's suggestion, he asked whether an independent decision by the 
Board to publish data regarding foreign operations would be foreclosed 
if the corporations and parent banks expressed objections. 

2 8 R 1 
6/30/67 
-12-
Governor Daane expressed the view that if the institutions were 
put on notice that the Board had furnished the information to the Con-
gress and had requested that it be kept confidential at this point, 
but that the Board had under consideration publication of a study that 
would reveal the data, the Board would still have the option of going 
ahead with the publication despite objections. 
Mr. Cardon observed that the package of material did not include 
the financial statements requested by Chairman Patman for each corpora-
tion or business in which Edge or agreement corporations had an interest 
of 10 per cent or more. 
Mr. Goodfellow explained that for companies in which Edge and 
agreement corporations owned less than a 50 per cent interest, the 
requested information was available only in examination reports. In 
many countries, the figures upon which an examiner had to base an 
appraisal were unpublished and were extremely confidential. Statements 
relating to subsidiaries (in which more than a 50 per cent interest is 
held) could be extracted only through a sizable task that could not be 
accomplished within the time limit Chairman Patman had set. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to Chairman Patman in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
A. letter to Congressman Fino was also approved unanimously in the form 
attached as Item No. 3, it being understood that that letter would not 
be accompanied by the information being sent to Mr. Patman regarding 

2682 
6/30/67 
-13-
the cost of equity investments of Edge and agreement corporations. The 
Board also approved unanimously the staff recommendation that a copy 
of the report, without attachments containing confidential data, be 
sent to each Edge and agreement corporation. It was further understood 
that the staff would prepare for the Board's consideration a proposal 
for publication of data regarding foreign operations of individual mem-
ber banks and Edge and agreement corporations. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley & Ketchum 
of Boston, Massachusetts, granting a further 
extension of time for Harvard Trust Company, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts; Newton-Waltham 
Bank and Trust Company, Waltham, Massachusetts; 
Norfolk County Trust Company, Brookline, Massa-
chusetts; and Valley Bank and Trust Company, 
Springfield, Massachusetts, to file registra-
tion statements pursuant to section 12(g) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Regu-
lation F, Securities of Member State Banks. 
(Prior to the expiration of a previous exten-
sion of time for registration, the banks filed 
applications for exemption; the time was now 
extended until 60 days after the date of the 
Board's decision on their applications for 
exemption.) 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
June 30, 1967, recommending that an order be placed with Westinghouse 
Elevator Company for repair work on the closing gate and related equip-
ment on the freight elevator in the Federal Reserve Building at a cost 
$2,925. (This action also authorized the resulting overexpenditure 
in the pertinent account of the 1967 budget of the Division.) 

2688 
6/30/67 
- 1 4 -
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Robert A. Eisenbeis as Economist, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $11,111, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Ralph W. Smith, Jr., as Economist, Division of International 
Finance, with basic annual salary at the rate of $11,111, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective July 2, 1967 
Herman 0. Stekler, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from $16,675 to $17,721 per annum. 
(Mr. Stekler's employment, which 
had been on a "visiting professor" basis, was placed on a permanent 
basis effective July 2, 1967.) 
Peggy H. Reaves, Supervisor, Information Center, Division of Inter-
national Finance, from $6,857 to $7,303 per annum. 
M. Callie Wickline, Nurse, Division of Personnel Administration, 
from $8,155 to $9,007 per annum. 
Meritorious salary increases, effective July 2, 1967 
Name and title 
Basic annual salary 
Division 
From 
To 
Board Members' Offices 
Frances Lucile Griffin, Secretary 
$7,090 
$7,303 
Office of the Secretary 
Carolyn Ann Bickel, Clearing Assistant 
Wary E. Chester, Minutes Clerk 
5,331 
4,936 
5,507 
5,096 
Legal 
Catherine M. Cole, Secretary 
6,263 
6,461 

2684 
6/30/67 
-15-
Meritorious salary increases, effective July 2, 1967 (continued) 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
Research and Statistics 
Emanuel Melichar, Economist 
J. Cortland G. Peret, Economist 
Mary M. Ray, Technical Editor (Economics) 
Levon H. Garabedian, Chief, Division 
Administration Section 
Judith S. Bretz, Economist 
Priscilla Ormsby, Economist 
Mary Ellen Stroupe, Research Assistant 
Richard L. Breen, Statistical Assistant 
International Finance 
Margaret R. Garber, Economist 
Carol S. Bennett, Secretary 
Bank Operations 
Kevin Raymond, Operations Analyst 
Diane Salisbury, Secretary 
Examinations 
Att W. Hammons, Jr., Assistant Federal 
Reserve Examiner 
Alice E. Rayman, Secretary 
Jane C. Charuhas, Training Technician 
Michael V. Maxson, Assistant Federal 
Reserve Examiner 
Personnel Administration 
Margaret H. Wolverton, Personnel Specialist 
Administrative Services 
Myrtle M. Evans, Cafeteria Helper 
Nina Marcey, Salad Maker 
Mary K. Nantell, Cafeteria Helper 
Marie Bittner, Cafeteria Helper 
From 
$16,152 
15,629 
12,443 
11,306 
9,536 
8,479 
6,664 
5,331 
11,111 
6,461 
7,957 
5,507 
10,481 
7,729 
7,090 
5,867 
10,481 
4,341 
4,463 
4,341 
3,975 
To 
$16,675 
16,152 
12,822 
11,685 
9,851 
8,740 
6,877 
5,507 
11,426 
6,659 
8,218 
5,683 
10,796 
7,942 
7,303 
6,065 
10,796 
4,463 
4,585 
4,463 
4,097 

2685 
6/30/67 
-16-
Meritorious salary increases, effective July 2, 1967 (continued) 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Administrative Services 
Lola Buckley, Telephone Operator 
$ 5,896 
$ 6,056 
Walter Jordan, Jr., Cook 
5,256 
5,416 
Mary E. Johnson, Chief Telephone Operator 
6,563 
6,739 
Constance J. Cornelia, Secretary 
5,507 
5,683 
Grace R. MacVean, Reservations Clerk 
7,055 
7,253 
Data Processing 
JoAnn L. Innocente, Secretary 
7,729 
7,942 
Helen A. Lupton, Graphic Illustrator 
9,784 
10,045 
Supervisor 
Paul Goldstein, Production Control 
11,306 
11,685 
Supervisor 
Adeline R. Tweed, General Assistant 
8,218 
8,479 
Daisy L. Condon, Secretary 
7,055 
7,253 
Acceptance of resignations 
David Robinson, II, Attorney, Legal Division, effective the close 
of business June 30, 1967. 
Ann P. Ulrey, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, effec-
tive the close of business June 30, 1967. 
Valerie M. Parry, Payroll Clerk, Office of the Controller, effective 
the close of business July 14, 1967. 
Governor Robertson also authorized Reed J. 
Irvine, Adviser in the Division of Inter-
national Finance, to accept an invitation 
from the Philippine-American Association, 
located in San Francisco, California, to 
participate in a round table discussion to 
be held next December on the U.S.-Philippine 
Trade Agreement. 
Secretary 

2686 
S3? 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F THE 
Item No . 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6/30/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
June 30, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Jacksonville National Bank, 
Jacksonville, Florida. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, the Board of Governors, acting 
under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
grants permission to the Jacksonville National Bank, Jacksonville, 
Florida, to maintain the same reserves against deposits as are 
required to be maintained by member banks not in a reserve city, 
effective with the first biweekly reserve computation period 
beginning after the date of this letter. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such permission 
is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2687 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 2 
6/30/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
June 30, 1967. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in further response to your letter of May 26, 
1967, in which you stated that the Domestic Finance Subcommittee 
of the House Banking and Currency Committee desired a report on 
the Board of Governors' supervision of corporations doing foreign 
banking and other foreign financing under the Federal Reserve Act, 
together with an examination of the foreign activities of national 
banks. The enclosed report and attachments have been prepared in 
response to this request. 
We have tried to be responsive to the Subcommittee's 
needs, taking into consideration our obligation to maintain 
confidentiality of some of the information requested. Attachments 
C-2, D, and E contain substantial amounts of information relating to 
private business transactions furnished to the Board on the assumption 
that it would be kept private. We hope that if your Subcommittee 
should consider releasing this information to the public you will 
consult with us before doing so. 
Your letter asked that we supply information as to the 
market value of certain equity investments. This information is 
not available to the Board, but we do have data on acquisition 
costs, which we are enclosing. Because publication of such data 
could be damaging to those involved, the Board believes that it 
sho uld be treated as confidential. 
We hope that this material will prove useful to the 
Subcommittee in its study, and we will do our best to provide any 
additional information that may be needed. 
Sincerely yours 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 
Enclosures 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• f the 
Item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5Y5TEM 
6/30/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C- 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
June 30, 1967. 
The Honorable Paul A. Fino, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Fino: 
Your letter dated May 1, 1967, requested certain 
information regarding foreign activities of U. S. banks. I am 
enclosing a copy of a report being sent today to Mr. Patman in 
response to a similar request made in connection with a study 
being undertaken by the Subcommittee on Domestic Finance. You 
will notice that attachments C-2, D, and E are marked 
"Confidential (FR)." They contain substantial amounts of 
information relating to private business transactions furnished 
to the Board on the assumption that it would be kept private. 
Accordingly, we have expressed to Mr. Patman our hope that if 
the Subcommittee should consider releasing this information to 
the public the Board will be consulted before it is released. 
Your letter also requested a list of the foreign bank 
shareholders of Edge Act Corporations. Although the statute 
simply requires that a majority of the capital stock of such a 
corporation be held by U. S. citizens, there are in fact no 
foreign shareholders of any Edge Act Corporation. All Edge 
Act and Agreement Corporations are now wholly-owned subsidiaries 
of U. S. banks. 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
I I 
Of 
Enclo sures 
