FR 609 
teev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
August 12, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2016 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 12, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Chairman Burns discussed with the Board members in 
general terms some of the considerations bearing upon current 
economic policy. 
The following staff members entered at the conclusion 
of the foregoing discussion: 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Pierce, Associate Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Garabedian, Assistant Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Staff reorganization. With a memorandum dated August 11, 
1971, Governor Sherrill transmitted to the Board for consideration, 

201 
8/12/71 
-2-
with his endorsement, a recommendation by the Division of Research 
and Statistics that the Special Studies Section and the Statistical 
Methodology and Procedures Section be reorganized into three sections 
with the aim of sharpening the focus of functional responsibilities. 
Some transfers of professionals from other sections into the proposed 
new sections were also recommended. 
As part of the contemplated reorganization, it was proposed 
that James L. Pierce, Associate Adviser, would cease his activities 
as Chief of the Special Studies Section and that new positions in 
Division Administration would be established to which Mr. Pierce 
and his secretary would be transferred. Additional personnel 
changes involved in the proposed reorganization were detailed in 
the supporting papers furnished by the Research Division. 
The reorganization would require 48 positions in lieu of 
the 46 currently approved positions in the sections affected. Thus, 
approval would result in the creation of two additional positions, 
and they would be in excess of the number of new unbudgeted positions 
(20) that Governor Sherrill was authorized to approve each year 
pursuant to the Board's action on August 27, 1970. 
Turning to this aspect of the matter first, the Board 
approved unanimously a revision of subparagraph (3) of the Dele-
gation of Board Authority for Budget Changes dated August 27, 1970, 
as follows: 

2018 
8/12/71 
-3-
(3) the establishment of new unbudgeted positions, 
provided that the total of new unbudgeted positions in 
grades FR 12 through 15 shall not exceed 20 positions 
for any budget year, and 
The proposed Research Division reorganization was then 
discussed and was approved unanimously, effective August 22, 1971, 
with the understanding that Governor Sherrill had power to act on 
personnel items designed to implement the reorganization. 
During the foregoing discussion Governor Mitchell, speaking 
as Chairman of the Board's Committee on Financial Statistics, indi-
cated that the Committee felt somewhat frustrated by the lack of 
progress in areas of the statistical program. He expressed the hope 
that the staff reorganization would be helpful in that regard. The 
Chairman suggested that the Board receive a progress report period-
ically through the Committee on Financial Statistics. 
2 jtic cjrd plaa ^e&b^rahip ££€*& do a*! 
IX 
ylt&Za 
At this point the following staff members entered: 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Messrs. Leavitt, Deputy Director, and Lyon, 
Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Mrs. Hobbs, and Miss Key of the 
Office of the Secretary 
Supporting staff of the several Divisions. 
Consent calendar. The Board authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting its action on August 3, 1971, approving the appli-
cation of United Bancorp of Maine, Portland, Maine, to acquire shares 
of Central National Bank, Waterville, Maine, a proposed new bank. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 1. 

2019 
8/12/71 
-4-
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting its 
action on July 21, 1971, approving the application of Pan American 
Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Commercial 
National Bank of Broward County, Broward County, Florida. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Heritage 
Bancorporation, Cherry Hill, New Jersey, to become a bank holding 
company by acquiring shares of the successors by merger to South 
Jersey National Bank, Camden, New Jersey, and The First National 
Iron Bank of New Jersey, Morristown, New Jersey, and authorized 
the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the 
order is attached as It em No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously the issuance of an inter-
pretation that credit card plan membership fees do not fall within 
the definition of a "finance charge" under section 226.4(a) of 
Regulation Z, Truth in Lending. Copies of the interpretation and 
the related press release are attached under Item No. 4. 
An application of Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, 
Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank of O'Fallon, 0fFallon, Missouri, 
and an application of Ellis Banking Corporation, Bradenton, Florida, 
to become a bank holding company through acquiring shares of 15 
Florida banks were held over for consideration at another meeting 
at the request of members of the Board. 

2020 
8/12/71 
-5-
There was some discussion, in this connection, of the 
standards used for the listing of items on the consent calendar. 
It was generally agreed that it was desirable to keep as much 
business as reasonably possible on the consent calendar, but that 
Board members should be alert to any unusual issues that might be 
seen in such items and that the standards should be reviewed from 
time to time in the light of experience. 
First Texas Bancorp. On August 3, 1971, the Board had 
deferred action on an application by First Texas Bancorp, Inc., 
Georgetown, Texas, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of shares of three Texas banks, since it appeared that 
applicant was not going to make an offer, for technical reasons, to 
certain minority bank shareholders. A letter had now been received 
from the Chairman of the Board of American State Bank of Killeen, 
f 
Killeen, Texas, advising that all stockholders of record showed 
addresses in Texas and that, accordingly, all stockholders would be 
available for the tender offer of First Texas Bancorp, Inc. 
After discussion the application was approved unanimously, 
and the Board authorized the issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting that decision. Copies of the order and statement are 
attached under Item No. 5. 
Bank Holding Company Act. In April 1971 the U.S. Supreme 
i 
Court handed down its decision, by majority vote, on a suit by the 
Pi 

2021 
8/12/71 
-6-
Investment Company Institute which challenged a regulation of the 
Comptroller of the Currency that authorized national banks to 
establish and operate a collective investment account for managing 
agency accounts—commonly referred to as a commingled investment 
account. The Court held that the Comptroller's regulation, insofar 
as it authorized the sale of interests in an investment fund of the 
type established by First National City Bank of New York, was 
invalid and that the operation of the fund involved the bank in under-
writing, issuing, selling, and distributing securities in violation 
of the Banking Act of 1933. 
In a memorandum dated July 30, 1971, the Legal Division 
expressed the view that the Court's decision did not prohibit the 
Board from authorizing bank holding company subsidiaries to furnish 
investment advice to investment companies, either of the open-end 
or closed-end varieties, and to act as custodian and transfer agent 
for such funds. However, in the absence of legislation, the Court's 
decision would preclude a bank holding company subsidiary from under-
writing, selling, or distributing either a load or no-load fund's 
shares. Assuming that the Board, as a policy matter, would wish to 
permit bank holding company subsidiaries to furnish investment advice 
to investment companies, the Division recommended that a proposal to 
amend section 222.4(a)(5) of Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, 
be published in the Federal Register for comment. The proposed 

2022 
8/12/71 
-7-
amendment would add the following underscored language to sub-
paragraph (5) of such section: 
(5) acting as investment or financial adviser, 
including (i) serving as the advisory company for 
a mortgage or a real estate investment trust; (ii) 
serving as investment adviser to an investment 
company registered under the Investment Company 
Act of 1940; and (iii) furnishing economic or 
financial information. 
In discussion it was brought out that subparagraph (5) 
presently contained a footnote which stated that acting as invest-
ment adviser to an open-end investment company or as a management 
consultant was not regarded by the Board as within the description 
of the referenced activity; and that the question whether to propose 
expanding the activity to include acting in either or both of those 
capacities was under consideration by the Board. In the circum-
stances, it appeared appropriate to publish the proposed amendment 
for comment without waiting for an application to be filed. 
There followed discussion of a letter of October 15, 1968, 
in which the Board held that a proposal of Morgan Guaranty Trust 
Company, New York, to act as investment adviser and furnish custodial 
services to a newly-organized mutual fund would not be prohibited by 
section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933. No question under section 32 
was presented by that case, but the Board did note the possible 
applicability of section 21 of the Banking Act of 1933 to the pro-
posal and indicated that it had followed the practice of not 

2023 
8/12/71 
-8-
expressing views on that score. Nevertheless, the Board had 
suggested two modifications of proposed practices since such 
practices could conceivably be viewed as "selling or distributing" 
of the fund's securities by Morgan Guaranty. 
It was the view of the staff that the publication of the 
proposed amendment to Regulation Y for comment would not be incom-
patible with the terms of the 1968 letter, and that there appeared 
to be no reason to reconsider the 1968 letter at this time. 
The Board then authorized the publication for comment of 
. . J,:' 
: 
the proposed amendment to section 222.4(a)(5) of Regulation Y. Copies 
of the notice published in the Federal Register and of the related 
press release are attached under Item No. 6 . 
Market surveys in section 4(c)(8) cases. In a memorandum 
of July 29, 1971, the Banking Markets Section recommended that the 
Board approve the use of voluntary response market surveys in 
selected cases of proposed acquisitions arising under section 4(c)(8) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. When such surveys were undertaken, 
it was recommended that respondents be given assurance that the 
confidentiality of their responses would be maintained, unless the 
Board's decision in the case was appealed. It was also recommended 
that authority to approve such surveys in connection with specific 
cases be delegated to the Program Director for Banking Structure. 
In a related memorandum of the same date the Legal Division 
addressed itself to the question of assuring confidentiality. The 

2024 
8/12/71 
-9-
Division believed that individual respondents should be advised of 
the risk that their responses might have to be disclosed for limited 
purposes or subject to court control. Another approach could be 
that staff members contacting respondents would not raise the issue 
of confidentiality. If the question was raised by a respondent, 
staff could assure that every effort would be made to keep the 
response confidential. 
In discussion it was noted that an alternative procedure 
would be to make no surveys. The applicant in a section 4(c)(8) 
case would bear the burden of convincing the Board that approval of 
the proposed acquisition would be consistent with the factors that 
the Board was required to consider under the public interest test. 
t 
A suggestion was made that experimentation with both the recommended 
procedure and this alternative over at least an initial period 
would reduce the burden upon System resources, reduce the risk that 
the problem of confidentiality would have to be dealt with, and 
enable the Board to assess the comparative results. 
In response, reference was made to the probability that 
information of the kind that could be obtained via the survey 
technique could not otherwise be made available, and to the contri-
bution that survey data should provide toward the development of 
System expertise in the handling of section 4(c)(8) cases. The 
Board was assured of the staff's intent that surveys would be 

2025 
8/12/71 
-10-
utilized only sparingly, and it was noted that the burden on the 
Board's staff would be reduced by the fact that the field work 
would be performed by the Reserve Banks. 
Suggestions were made as to procedures that might be 
followed to provide reasonably accurate data in instances where 
market surveys were not made, and it was understood that the staff 
would explore those alternatives further. 
On the issue of confidentiality, it was the consensus that 
the staff should study how cases in which market surveys were made 
might best be processed so that respondents could be assured of the 
confidential treatment of their responses to the fullest possible 
extent, even if this made it necessary to rely less on survey 
findings in releasing Board decisions or in defending decisions 
that were appealed. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the use of voluntary 
response market surveys in selected section 4(c)(8) cases was 
approved and the Program Director for Banking Structure was 
authorized to approve the use of such surveys in specific cases, 
subject to the understanding that the issues raised during today's 
discussion and the comments with respect thereto would be borne in 
mind. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 

2026 
8/12/71 
-11-
Mr. Holland summarized a report from Mr. Coombs, Special 
Manager of the System Open Market Account, on developments in the 
international financial area, following which Mr. Robert Solomon 
added supplementary comments on market developments. 
Governor Maisel raised the question whether a telegraphic 
vote of members of the Federal Open Market Committee was considered 
satisfactory with respect to proposals to increase System swap lines. 
There followed a suggestion that the question could be discussed 
at the next meeting of the Committee, or that a telephone conference 
meeting of the Committee could be arranged, if necessary, should the 
Special Manager need a decision on some proposal prior to the next 
meeting. However, it was agreed to continue with the existing 
procedures for the time being, absent some major development. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

! . ! 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
UNITED BANCORP OF MAINE, 
1 
p°rtland, Maine, 
' 
approval of acquisition of 51 per cent 
' 
the voting shares of Central National 
' 
&ank, Waterville, Maine, a proposed new 
' 
bank. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Bancorp of Maine, 
Portland, Maine ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior approval of 
acquisition of 51 per cent of the voting shares of Central 
National 
Bank, Waterville, Maine ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
reoomraended approval of the application. 
Item No^^l 
8/12/71 
SYSTEM 

2028 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 7, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12814), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
"views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect - of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
a n d managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the-coimuiiities 
t o be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the smallest of four registered bank holding 
companies and the sixth largest banking organization in the State, 
controls two banks with total deposits of approximately $116 million, 
Representing 9.2 per cent of the State's total deposits. (All banking 
d^ta are as of December 31, 1970 and reflect holding company acquisitions 
approved through June 30, 1971.) 
Bank will be located in the Waterville banking market, 
first and fourth largest banking ovgmiaQtione in~ the-S.tate have 
seven offices there and control virtually all area deposits. Applicant 
i s not represented in that market; its present subsidiary bank nearest to 
Bank's site is located 49 miles southwest in Lewiston, Therefore, 

-3-
2G2D 
/ . 
' • i 
• • 
consummation of tHa {jkofcdsiai &Holil<i stimulate fcompefcitdn without 
having an undue adverse effect on other banks in the market. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Deputy Secretary 
The banking factors with respect to Applicant, its 
subsidiaries, and Bank are consistent with approval of the applica-
tion. Bank is not expected to offer any new banking services not 
already available in the area. However, the establishment of Bank, 
^hich was initiated by a group of local businessmen, would provide 
an additional banking alternative to residents of the Waterville 
a r e a« 
Thus considerations relating to convenience and needs of the 
c°nimunity lend some weight in favor of approval of the application. 
is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be 
i n the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
• - ' 
' • • ' • - • • • 
I 
It is hereby ordered, On the ba3is of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°rcier, or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
.1 
a n d provided further that (c) Central National Bank shall be open for 
business not later than six months after the date of this Order. The 
p6riods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended for good cause 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 12, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman B u m s and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Maisel. 

Item No. 
8/12/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C# 
In the Matter of the Application of 
pAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC., 
Miami, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 
'8 per cent or more of the voting shares 
Commercial National Bank of Broward 
County, Broward County, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Pan American Bancshares, Inc., 
Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 78 per cent or more 
o f the voting shares of Commercial National Bank of Broward County, 
toward County, Florida ("Commercial Bank"). 
On October 31, 1970, there was published in the Federal 
Agister (35 Federal Register 16875) an Order of the Board approving 
Applicant's acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the voting shares 
o f Commercial Bank. Subsequently, Applicant advised the Board that 
** had failed to receive tenders of their shares from at least 80 per 

2031 
-2-
cent of the shareholders and Applicant amended the application to 
seek approval to acquire 78 per cent of the voting shares of Commercial 
Bank. Notice of receipt of the amendment to the application was 
Published in the Federal Register on April 1, 1971 (36 Federal 
Regis ter 6030) providing an opportunity for interested persons to 
submit comments and views with respect to the proposal. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
With one exception, the factors which the Board is required 
to consider in connection with this application remain as considered 
i n the Board's approval Order dated October 23, 1970. This excep-
t i on is that the original application approved by the Board con-
opiated an identical exchange offer of Applicant's shares to all 
shareholders of Commercial Bank and the present application involves 
a cash offer. Upon failure of Applicant's tender offer to Commercial 
B a nk shareholders, parties friendly to Applicant purchased a 78 per 
Cer*t interest in Commercial Bank for cash. The present application 
contemplate8 Applicant's acquisition of that interest for cash and 
a cash offer to the remaining shareholders. 

-3-
2032 
On all holding company acquisitions, the Board has been and 
remains concerned with the fairness and equity of the offer to minority 
as well as majority shareholders of the bank to be acquired, .In this 
case, the Board has requested and received Applicant's full assurances 
that the cash offer being made to the remaining shareholders is at least 
equal to that received by each of the original majority shareholders of 
Commercial Bank. 
t;! 
The Board finds the offer to be made to be fair and equitable 
t o all minority shareholders of Commercial Bank and further finds the 
statutory factors to be as set forth in its Order of October 23, 1970. 
r I 
*t is the Board*s judgment that the proposed acquisition is in the 
Public interest and should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above and in the Board's Order of October 23, 1970, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later than 
three months after the date of this Order, unless such time be 
. v\-'. n,--. 
j'/l 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 12, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

J§ 
i 
203; 
Item No. 3 
8/12/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
HERITAGE BANCORPORATION, 
Cherry Hill, New Jersey, 
approval of action to become a bank 
holding company 
through the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of 
'1) the successor by merger to South 
Jersey National Bank, Camden, New Jersey, 
a n d (2) the succpssor bv merger to The 
pirst National Iron Bank of New Jersey, 
^°rristown, New Jersey. 
/ 
t 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(l)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Heritage Bancorporation ("Applicant"), 
Cherry Hill, New Jersey, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
icant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
0 f (1) the successor by merger to South Jersey National Bank ("South 
Jersey Bank"), Camden, New Jersey, and (2) the successor by merger to 
First National Iron Bank of New Jersey ("Iron Bank"), Morristovm, 
Jersey. 

-2-
2034 
The banks into which South Jersey Bank and Iron Bank are to 
merged have no significance except as a vehicle for the acquisition 
°f the voting shares of the banks involved., Accordingly, the proposed 
acquisitions of the shares of the successor organizations are treated 
as proposed acauisitions of the shares of South Jersey Bank and Iron 
Bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency,. arid requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register of June 16, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11617), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
tlle banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 

2035 
-2-
Upon consummation of the proposal, Applicant would become 
the only bank holding company headquartered in southern New Jersey 
and, with control of 3.4 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
ifl the State of New Jersey, would become the second smallest of six 
If 
holding companies in the State. 
South Jersey Bank (deposits of approximately $347 million), 
the second largest bank in the Third Banking District on the basis 
°f deposits and eleventh largest in the State, serves the southern 
New Jersey market areas of Camden, Atlantic City, Vineland and 
Ratnmonton. Iron Bank (deposits of approximately $160 million), the 
fifteenth largest bank in the First Banking District and the twenty-
fifth largest in the State, serves primarily Morris County, There 
is no present significant competition between the two banks and, 
view of the facts of record, notably the 66-mile distance between 
the two banking districts and the New Jersey law prohibiting branch-
ing across district lines, such competition is unlikely to develop 
in the future. The Board concludes that consummation of the proposal 
^ould have no adverse effect on competition in any relevant area and 
miSht have a procompetitive effect within the First Banking District 
by enabling Iron Bank to become a more effective competitor to the 
*arger organizations in that District. 
y 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1970 and reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions to date. 

2036 
-4-
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant and each of the proposed subsidiaries are satisfactory 
and consistent with approval. There is no evidence that significant 
banking needs of the communities to be served are not being met. 
However, consummation of the proposal would enable South Jersey 
Bank 
to become a more effective competitor of Philadelphia 
banks 
for commercial banking services and Iron Bank a more effec-
tive competitor of New York banks for those services. Considerations 
relative to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
*end some weight toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons summarized above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisitions so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
pe?iod is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 12, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson, and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

ilfe J«ff 
'• V 
3 to i ».,• 
>V 
Item No. 4 
8/12/71 
For immediate release 
August 12, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today issued a Truth in Lending interpretation relating to annual 
membership fees charged by some credit card issuers. 
The Board said such fees are not part of the "finance 
charge" since they are imposed as a qualification of membership 
and for the issuance of a credit card rather than as an incident 
to or as a condition of any specific excension of credit. 
A copy of the interpretation to Regulation 2 is attached. 
-0-

203S 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. 
Z) 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
Charges for Membership In Open End Credit Plan 
§ 226.407 
Charges for membership in open end credit plan 
(a) A credit card issuer charges the cardholder an annual 
fee for membership in the credit plan and for issuance of a credit card 
for use in conjunction with the plan. The payment of the fee is required 
as a condition of membership in the plan, whether or not the cardholder 
uses his card for the purpose of obtaining credit. The question arises 
whether these fees are finance charges under § 226.4(a) of Regulation Z. 
(b) Since such fees are imposed as a qualification of membership 
in the plan and for the issuance of a credit card, and not as incident to 
as a condition of any specific extension of credit, they do not fall 
i 
Within the definition of a "finance charge" under § 226.4(a) of Regulation Z. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1605) 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 12, 1971. 
(signed) Kenneth y\. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

2 0 ; 
Item No. 5 
8/12/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST TEXAS BANCORP, INC,, 
Georgetown, Texas, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 66 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of American State 
Bank, Killeen, 82 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of Citizens State Bank, 
Georgetown, and 46 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of First National Bank, 
Lampasas, all in Texas. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Texas Bancorp, Inc., 
Georgetown, Texas, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 66 per cent or more of the voting shares of American State Bank, 
Killeen, Texas, 82 per cent or more of the voting shares of Citizens 
State Bank, Georgetown, Texas, and 46 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of First National Bank, Lampasas, Texas. 

-4-
2040 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and to the Texas Commissioner of Banking and requested 
their views and recommendations. The Comptroller and the Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on June 10, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11239), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration, Time for filing comments and views has expired, and all 
those received have been considered by the Board, 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application ,be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 12, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

2041 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST TEXAS BANCORP, INC., GEORGETOWN, TEXAS 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY THROUGH THE ACQUISITION OF 
VOTING SHARES OF (1) AMERICAN STATE BANK, KILLEEN, 
(2) CITIZENS STATE BANK, GEORGETOWN, AND 
(3) FIRST NATIONAL BANK, LAMPASAS, 
ALL IN TEXAS 
STATEMENT 
First Texas Bancorp, Inc., Georgetown, Texas ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 66 per cent 
°r more of the voting shares of American State Bank, Killeen ("Killeen 
Bank")? 82 per cent or more of the voting shares of Citizens State Bank, 
Georgetown ("Georgetown Bank"), and 46 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of First National Bank, Lampasas ("Lampasas Bank"), all in Texas. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
rGceipt to the Comptroller of the Currency and to the Texas Commissioner 
Banking and requested their views and recommendations. The Comptroller 
at*d the Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to«:attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 

-2-
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition, fche effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the Anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction-: - Applicant 
would, after completion of the proposed transaction, control ,1 per 
cent of total State deposits. Thus, Statewide banking concentration 
would not be significantly affected. 
Georgetown Bank is the third largest of 12 banks in the 
Georgetown area and does ;not compete significantly with the other pro-
posed subsidiaries due to the geographical distances separating the 
banks. Although there appears to be a slight overlap in the service 
area of Lampasas Bank and Killeen Bank, there is no significant present 
competition, due to common control of the two banks, a distance of 
31 miles and the intervening large Fort Hood military installation. 
Even treating the two banks as in the same area, their combined deposits 
would represent 10.7 per cent of such area deposits and as a combined 
organization it would rank fourth among 12 banking organizations. 

204 o 
o> 
-2-
The three banks are now under common control. Mr. Grogan Lord 
personally controls 82 per cent of the voting shares of Georgetown Bank, 
66 per cent of the voting shares of Killeen Bank, and 46 per cent of the 
voting shares of Lampasas Bank, and he has organized and now controls 
Applicant as well. There is no significant present competition among 
the three proposed subsidiary banks, and due to their geographical 
separatio n, the number of intervening banks, Texas' laws prohibiting 
branching, and their common control, it does not appear that future com-
petition is likely to develop. Consummation of the proposed formation 
would effect a reorganization of the three affiliated banks under cor-
porate control, and it does not appear that it would adversely affect 
competing banks. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any part of the United States, and would 
n°t restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create 
a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant was recently organized for the purpose of consummating the 
Present proposal and has not engaged in any business activities. Its 
financial condition and that of its subsidiaries are satisfactory, the 

-4-
2044 
managements of each are considered competent, and the prospects of 
each are regarded as favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
With approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
three proposed subsidiaries each emphasize only one of the following 
different types of lending: farm loans; commercial and industrial 
loans; and real estate and installment loans. Applicant believes that 
the holding company structure will permit it to provide a pool of 
Personnel with the diversity of expertise to assist each bank in lend-
ing areas not now emphasized. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
areas involved lend some weight for approval, although present common 
control of the banks could permit some degree of cooperation among 
the banks. 
. Summary and conclusion.- On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in t;he record, and in the light o.f the factors set-forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the pro-
Posed transaction would be in the public interest and that the appli-
cation should be approved. 
August 12, 1971. 

^MM 
fef^IrvT-Hi?/ 
w i S ^ ' 
^^fovf^-V- • V. 
....... 
J 
% 
lllllKvf-"/- 
• • ^ - • v 
? 
. . . 
• 
I 
For immediate release 
Item No. 6 
8/12/71 
August 17, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System proposed 
today to permit bank holding companies to serve as investment advisers 
to mutual funds. This proposal is part of a series of proposals the 
Board has made concerning activities regarded as closely related to 
banking under the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Comments on the proposal should be submitted to the Board by September 24. 
Under section 4(c.)8 of the Bank Holding Company Act, the Board 
may permit bank holding companies to engage in activities that are "so 
j 
closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be 
a proper incident thereto." 
One of the businesses found thus far by the Board to be closely 
related to banking is "acting as investment or financial adviser, in-
cluding (i.) serving as the advisory company for a mortgage or a real 
estate investment trust and (ii) furnishing economic or financial infor-
mation." 
The Board now proposes to amend this activity to read as 
follows: 
"Acting as investment or financial adviser, including (i) serv-
ing as the advisory company for a mortgage or a real estate investment 
trust; 
(ii) 
serving as investment adviser to an investment company 
registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940; and (iii) furnishing 
economic or financial information." 
A copy of the proposed amendment is attached. 
-0-

2046 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 222] 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Interests in Nonbanking Activities 
On May 27, 1971, the Board of Governors announced the initial 
implementation of its regulatory authority under section 4(c)(8) of the 
Holding Company Act to permit holding companies to engage directly 
through a subsidiary in activities that are "so closely related to 
banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident 
thereto" (36 F.R. 10777). 
One of the activities the Board determined to be closely 
Elated to banking is "acting as investment or financial adviser, 
lt*cludinc (i) serving as the advisory company for a mortgage or a real 
estate investment trust and (ii) furnishing economic or financial 
information". In announcing that determination the Board indicated 
acting as investment adviser to an open-end investment company is 
not regarded by the Board as within the description of this activity. 
Board stated that it was considering whether to propose expanding 
S uch activity to include acting in that capacity. 
The Board has considered such action in the light of the 
^ited States Supreme Court's decision in Investment Company Institute v. 
(401 U.S. 617). It has concluded that such decision does not 
Effect the Board's authority to permit holding companies to provide 
advisory services to open-end or closed-end investment companies. 

I 
2 0 4 ^ 
-2-
Accordingly, the Board proposes to amend § 222.4(a) of 
Regulation Y to permit bank holding companies, subject to the procedures 
of § 222.4(b), to serve as an investment adviser to an investment company. 
The text of the proposed amendment reads as follows: 
§ 222.4 Nonbankinp activities. 
(a) Ar-Mv-ti -fpr r.lonely related to banking or mana£in£._or 
controlling banks,. * * * The following activities have been determined 
by the Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or control-
ling beaks as to be a proper incident thereto: 
ft ft ft 
(3) acting as investment or financial adviser, including 
(i) serving as the advisory company for a mortgage or a real estate 
investment trust; (ii) serving as investment adviser to an investment 
company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940; and (iii) 
furnishing economic or financial information, 
ft ft ft 
To aid in the consideration by the Board of this matter, 
interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
arguments. In accordance with the provisions of § 4(c)(8) of the Act, 
interested persons are also given opportunity to request a hearing 
on this matter. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted 

204S 
-2-
in writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than 
September 24, 1971. Such material will be made available for inspec-
tion and copying upon request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of 
the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 12, 1971. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL] 
