MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 18, 1969 

o o o i 
^U'vHt 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, July 18, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions except Messrs. Partee, 
Axilrod, and Ettin of the Division of Research and Statistics and 
Mr. Norwood of the Division of International Finance then withdrew and 
the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Messrs. Lynch and Mertz of the Legal Division 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

rf-'OK.'o 
7/18/69 
-2-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on July 14 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on July 17, 1969, 
of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate 
advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking matters. A letter to First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to its proposed acquisition of additional shares of Commercial Credit 
Corporation (Thailand), Bangkok, Thailand, was approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
A letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
granting its request for permission to acquire the shares of Union du 
Credit de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium, was approved unanimously. A 
copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
H.R. 7717. The Bureau of the Budget had requested the Board's 
views on H.R. 7717, a bill to amend section 19(e) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. Pursuant to the amendment the prohibition against a member bank's 
depositing an amount equal to more than 10 per cent of its capital and 
surplus in a nonmember bank would be changed so that the limitation 
would apply only to amounts deposited in a noninsured bank. In a memo-
randum from Mr. Cardon dated July 16, 1969, it was suggested that the 
response be in terms that in the absence of some greater showing of 
need for the legislation the Board would not recommend its enactment. 

7/18/69 
-3-
In discussion, members of the Board expressed the view that 
the case against the proposed amendment of section 19(e) should be 
set forth more strongly in the letter to the Budget Bureau. Several 
reasons that might be cited were suggested, although there was not 
full agreement that all of them should necessarily be included in 
the letter. 
The proposed letter was then referred back to the staff for 
editing in light of the discussion, with the understanding that the 
sending of the edited letter was authorized. A copy of the letter 
transmitted to the Bureau is attached as Item No. 3. 
Draft bill relating to student loans. Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the Bureau of the Budget in response to the Bureau's 
request for the Board's views on a draft bill prepared by the Department 
of Health, Education, and Welfare that would remove the 7 per cent 
interest rate limitation on student loans and instead give the Secretary 
°f Health, Education, and Welfare authority to set the maximum rate. A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
Report of Venture Capital Panel. After further discussion of 
the matter, the Board again failed to reach agreement on the form of 
letter that should be sent to the Department of Commerce with respect 
to the report of the Venture Capital Panel of the Commerce Technical 
Advisory Board. There continued to be some sentiment within the Board 
that a firm position should be taken against involvement of the Federal 
Reserve Banks in programs implementing the panel report, but there was 

2 3 - w * 
7/18/69 
-4-
also a view favoring a more conciliatory stance, going at least as 
far as to accede to using the Reserve Banks as vehicles for the 
distribution of information. 
In the circumstances, a decision on the reply to be made was 
deferred until a meeting when additional Board members could be present. 
The meeting continued from this point with staff attendance 
limited to Messrs. Kenyon, Broida, Forrestal, Molony, Partee, and Bernard. 
Discount rate. On July 10, 1969, the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City had established, subject to the approval of 
the Board of Governors, a rate of 7 per cent (rather than the existing 
6 per cent) on discounts for and advances to member banks under sections 13 
and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, a rate of 7-1/2 per cent on advances 
to member banks under section 10(b) of the Act, and a rate of 8 per cent 
on advances to individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than 
member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act. 
After discussion the Board disapproved by unanimous vote the 
rates established by the Kansas City directors, with the understanding 
that an appropriate letter of advice would be sent to the Bank. A copy 
of the letter sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 5. 
There followed a brief discussion of certain articles that had 
appeared in the press recently with regard to System policy matters, 
after which the meeting adjourned. 

B D A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
• r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/18/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 18, 1969 
First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
June 6, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corpora-
tion ("FNCOIC") to purchase and hold up to an additional 21.7 per cent 
°f the outstanding shares of Commercial Credit Corporation (Thailand) 
("CCC-T"), Bangkok, Thailand, at a cost of approximately $192,000, 
Provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
additional shares of CCC-T by FNCOIC is granted subject to the follow-
ing conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CCC-T if CCC-T at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if CCC-T establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Thailand or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regardir 
the activities of CCC-T as it may require from tiv.-.e 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CCC-T 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if CCC-T were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
- 2 -
(4) That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of CCC-T at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of CCC-T, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by CCC-T in Thailand in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of CCC-T. 
The Board has noted that as of May 31, 1969, the foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, First National City Bank, 
International Banking Corporation, and First National City Bank (Inter' 
national), exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent is given 
with the understanding that those foreign loans and investments will 
be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with the guide-
lines; that the investment now being approved will be made within thosi 
guidelines; and that due consideration is being given to the prioritie; 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
2 3 3 0 
Item No. 2 
7/18/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 18, 1969 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
90054 
As requested in your letter of June 12, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Sections 9 and 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for United California Bank 
("UCB") Lps Angeles, California, to purchase and hold up to 100 per 
cent of the outstanding shares of Union du Credit de Bruxelles 
("Union"), Brussels, Belgium, at a cost of approximately $4,400,000, 
Provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
Union by UCB is grafted subject to the applicable provisions of 
Section 25 and Regulation M and to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares shall be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if Union shall in any manner engage in 
any activity or take any action whatsoever that 
would not be permissible if Union were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, UCB 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Union as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Union 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if Union were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

233: 
United California Bank 
-2-
(4) That UCB shall not carry on its books the shares of 
Union at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of Union, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
— • 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) 
Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your bank and United California Bank International, New York, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
m't 
n-i U ' 4 * = • 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
nr T H E . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
7/18/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O W K E S P ID N D l" N C f: 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 18, 1969. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
You have asked for the Board's views on H. R. 7717, a bill 
to place insured nonmember banks on a parity with other insured banks 
with respect to their eligibility as depositories for member banks. 
Section 19(e) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. §463) now limits 
to 10 per cent of capital and surplus the amount that a member bank 
may keep on deposit with any State, nonmember bank. The bill would 
aPPly this limit to noninsured banks, rather than nonmember banks, 
thereby allowing member banks to keep deposits in insured banks in 
amounts limited only by the restraints of sound banking practice. 
The Board believes that the limitation in section 19(e) 
serves to strengthen the liquidity of the banking system, and there-
fore to strengthen financial markets. One of the most important 
functions of the Federal Reserve is to serve as a source of credit 
t o its member banks to meet temporary, emergency, or seasonal needs 
for funds that the banks cannot reasonably meet out of their own 
resources. Banks that accept large deposits from other banks 
("large", in the sense of exceeding 10 per cent of the capital and 
surplus of the depositing bank) can provide additional assurance of 
their ability to meet tests of their liquidity by maintaining member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board therefore recommends against enactment of H. R. 7717. 
Very truly your 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2 3 3 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
7/18/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
July 18, 1969 
Mrs. Naomi R. Sweeney, 
As sistant Director for Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Re: HEW revised draft "Insured Student Loan Emergency 
Amendments of 1969" dated July 16, 1969. 
Dear Mrs. Sweeney: 
The Board has received your memorandum dated July 16, 1969, 
requesting its views on the above draft bill which would amend 
section 427(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to remove the 
7 per cent limitation on interest rates on student loans and would 
confer upon the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare the 
authority to set the maximum rate applicable to insured student 
loans. The draft bill also makes conforming amendments to two 
other provisions of the Act. 
The Board understands that the purpose of the draft bill 
is to make more attractive to lenders student loans insured under 
the Act in the present period of high interest rates. The Board 
favors this purpose and has no objection to the proposed bill. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
7/18/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20351 
• F 
T H E 
ADDHF.S5 OFFICIAL UHHRthcaNDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
July 18, 1969. 
Mr. Dolph Simon, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Dolph: 
This letter is to advise that the Board of 
Governors voted today to disapprove the pending increase 
in your Bank's discount rate to 7 per cent which was 
established by your Board of Directors on July lb, 1969. 
This disapproval, of course, was alsc applicable to the 
rates established under section 10(b) and under the last 
paragraphs of section 13. 
The Board's decision was without prejudice to 
any future consideration of such discount rate action as 
your Board of Directors may regard as appropriate to the 
circumstances. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson • 
J. L. Robertson. 
