FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
June 9, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
O
A 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1 7 3 0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 9, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. McClintock, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Holding company decisions. The Board authorized the issuance 
of documents, attached to these minutes under the item numbers indi-
cated, reflecting the following decisions: 

1731 
6/9/70 
-2-
Approval, on May 21, 1970, of the application of Security New York 
State Corporation, Rochester, New York, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to The National Bank of Auburn, Auburn, New 
York (order only) (Item No. 1). 
Approval, on June 2, 1970, of the application of Barnett Banks of 
Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of City 
National Bank and Trust Company, Clearwater, Florida (order only) 
(Item No. 2). 
Approval, on April 17, 1970, of the application of The First 
National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares 
of The First National Bank of Greeley, Greeley, Colorado (order, 
statement, concurring statement by Governor Mitchell, and dissent-
ing statement of Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer) (Item No. 3). 
Society Corporation. Documentation regarding the application 
of Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire shares of The 
Farmers National Bank and Trust Company of Ashtabula, Ashtabula, Ohio, 
included a memorandum dated June 5, 1970, in which the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation recommended approval. The Banking Markets 
Section recommended denial, for reasons set forth in a memorandum of 
May 20 and supplemented by Mr. Lawrence in comments at today's meeting. 
After discussion, the application was approved, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting for reasons similar to those advanced 
by the Banking Markets Section. 
It was understood that an order and 
statement reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration, along with a dissenting statement. 
Mobile home financing. 
In a memorandum dated June 5, 1970, the 
Divisions of Data Processing and Research and Statistics recommended 
that a supplement be added to the June 1970 call report to obtain infor-
mation from State member banks on loans to finance the purchase of 

173 
6/9/70 
-3-
mobile homes. 
It was understood that the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation and the Comptroller of the Currency proposed to collect 
similar information. The proposed definition of "mobile homes" had 
been developed through consultation with interested industry and Govern-
ment organizations. 
Discussion included comments on ways in which loans to purchase 
mobile homes might now be classified on condition reports, and questions 
were raised regarding the effectiveness of the proposed definition to 
achieve substantial reporting of such loans on the supplement. A sug-
gestion also was made that the reporting form be revised to attempt to 
i 
pick up loans to purchase mobile homes that banks might be carrying as 
single payment loans. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the use of the supplement 
was approved unanimously, subject to negotiation with the other agencies 
regarding the changes that had been suggested, and subject to clearance 
with the Bureau of the Budget. 
Survey of finance companies. The Division of Research and 
Statistics recommended making a fourth quinquennial survey of finance 
companies as of June 30, 1970, for reasons set forth in a memorandum 
dated June 5, 1970. The survey questionnaire had been developed with 
the cooperation of major trade associations and several individual finance 
companies to insure that the questions were consistent with industry 
accounting practices and would yield results useful to both the Board and 
the industry. 

1733 
6/9/70 
-4-
After discussion the survey was approved unanimously, subject 
to clearance with the Bureau of the Budget. 
Bank secrecy. On February 12, 1970, during consideration of 
appl ications by a national bank to establish additional branches in 
Switzerland, question arose regarding what would constitute "adequate 
information" to be maintained at head offices of U.S. banks regarding 
operations of such branches to enable the Board to discharge its super-
visory responsibilities properly. 
In a memorandum dated April 20, 1970, and attachments the staff 
discussed the kinds of information that it would regard as adequate if 
available. The staff recommended that this serve as the basis for con-
versations with member banks. Attachments to the memorandum also dis-
cussed legal and related considerations; pending legislation; and 
negotiations for treaties of assistance. 
Governor Daane inquired whether the matter was of such urgency 
that it could not be deferred for a few days to enable him to study it 
more carefully. 
It was noted, however, that the proposed conversations 
with banks would be largely for the sake of obtaining information and 
would not commit the Board to a firm position; in fact, on the basis 
of the interviews the staff might well return to the Board with revised 
recommendations. 
Governor Daane then said that if the interviews were understood 
to be merely exploratory he would have no objection to proceeding with 
them. Some need was indicated, from the standpoint of relations with 

1734 
6/9/70 
-5-
the banks concerned, to refer to the information requirements as having 
at least tentative acceptance by the Board. This would also be helpful 
in working with the Comptroller's staff. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the staff 
should proceed with the interviews on the basis of the information require-
ments proposed, with the understanding, however, that the Board retained 
leeway to revise those requirements. 
Certification regarding bank officer. The Acting Comptroller 
of the Currency had transmitted to the Board a certification under the 
provisions of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966 request-
ing that action be taken to remove Charles G. Bollinger as an officer 
and director of First National Bank, St. Robert, Missouri. 
In a memorandum dated June 5, 1970, the Legal Division expressed 
the view that the certification did not meet the requirements of the 
Act, since the Acting Comptroller had merely set out information gathered 
during examination of the bank from which it was concluded that Mr. Bollinger 
had possibly misapplied funds of the bank. 
It appeared to the Division that the Comptroller considered it 
the Board's responsibility to conduct the investigation necessary to estab-
lish facts to support the issuance of a notice. The Division differed 
from that view. 
The memorandum noted that the Comptroller had referred the mat-
ter to the Department of Justice, and an investigation had been conducted 

1735 
6/9/70 
-6-
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
The Legal Division had reviewed 
the Bureau's report, but did not believe it would support the issuance 
of a notice by the Board. *The Department of Justice had declined prosecu-
tion, but was prepared to call witnesses before the grand jury in Kansas 
City in an effort to develop additional evidence to make a case. 
The Division recommended that a letter (draft attached) be sent 
by the Secretary of the Board to the Comptroller. 
Mr. Marinaccio commented that there were two alternatives to 
the course recommended, but the Legal Division did not consider either 
of them advisable: 
the Board could undertake an investigation to get 
the facts, or it could issue a notice supported only by the Comptroller's 
allegations. 
Several members of the Board commented on the time (almost a year) 
that had elapsed since receipt of the Comptroller's certification, and 
factors that had contributed to the delay were mentioned. 
Governor Daane expressed concern that if the grand jury investi-
gation should result in criminal charges and conviction, the Board would 
appear remiss for not having taken action for such a long time after the 
Comptroller requested that the officer be removed. Governor Sherrill 
spoke of the intent of the 1966 law to enable the removal of bank officers 
in timely fashion when circumstances warranted. 
Governor Maisel commented that if only the question of how to 
handle the present case was involved, he did not think the delay was of 

1736 
6/9/70 
-7-
extreme importance. However, if the Comptroller sent other certifica-
tions the Board should get in a position to act on them promptly. He 
advocated working out an agreement with the Comptroller regarding 
investigative responsibility and other factors, so that future certifi-
cations would be in such shape that they could be acted upon without 
undue delay. Otherwise, the situation had the flavor of letting the 
staff rather than the Board decide how to proceed. 
Governor Maisel also suggested that if the Comptroller, when 
informed of the staff's views on the instant case, chose to stand on 
the form of certification he had sent, the Board should then proceed on 
that basis with the Comptroller participating, as required by law, and 
reach a decision. 
Governor Robertson stated that he regarded the Legal Division's 
position as correct. Although the delay that had occurred was regret-
table, it was necessary to have the facts to support a notice. He sug-
gested that the proposed letter be sent, to enable the Comptroller to 
be made aware of the views. 
A further suggestion was made, by Governor Mitchell, that the 
letter indicate that the Board^-s staff, which had already spent time in 
consultation with the Comptroller's staff regarding the matter, was 
prepared to work immediately with the Office of the Comptroller to develop 
the necessary facts should such assistance be desired. 

1737 
6/9/70 
-8-
At the conclusion of the discussion unanimous approval was 
given to the sending of a letter in a form that would reflect the sug-
gestions agreed upon. A copy of the letter sent to the Comptroller is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Kenyon, Partee, Molony, Hexter, and Frederic Solomon. 
Mr. Holland advised that negotiations were continuing within 
the Administration, with Federal Reserve personnel participating to the 
extent consistent with fiscal agent responsibility, concerning the 
possibility of a V-loan to the Penn Central Railroad. Also under con-
sideration was the possibility of legislation that would make longer-
term financing available through the Department of Transportation. 
Meanwhile, the amendment to Regulation V approved by the Board on June 4, 
1970, was being withheld temporarily from publication in the Federal 
Register. 
Mr. Holland also noted that all members of the Board were sched-
uled to be available this Friday and said the Chairman hoped that con-
sideration could be given to the question of placing reserve requirements 
against bank-related commercial paper, perhaps in conjunction with a 
general reduction in reserve requirements. Members of the Board indicated 
that they would want the staff to be prepared with an assessment of cur-
rent and prospective economic and financial developments, particularly 

1738 
6/9/70 
-9-
if consideration was to be given to actions that, taken in combination, 
would have other than a relatively neutral reserve effect. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

173IJ 
Item No. 1 
6/9/70 
UNITED STATES OF AIIERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SECURITY NEW YORK STATE CORPORATION, 
Rochester, New York, 
for approval of acquisition of voting 
shares of the successor by merger to 
The National Bank of Auburn, Auburn, 
New York. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C, 
1242(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Security New York State 
Corporation, Rochester, New York ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
°f 100 per cent (less directors1 qualifying shares) of the voting 
shares of a new national bank into which \70uld be merged The National 
Bank of Auburn, Auburn, New York ("Auburn National"). The new 
national bank has significance only as a means of acquiring all of 

1740 
i 
the shares of the bank to be merged into it; the proposal is therefore 
treated herein as a proposal to acquire shares of The National Bank 
of Auburn. 
, . 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
The New York State Banking Board, in accordance with a 
recommendation of the New York Superintendent of Banks, approved 
a n applicat 
ion with respect to the same proposal, filed with it 
Pursuant to New York law. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 31, 1970 (35 Federal Register 5376), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
^ e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
Managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the 
kanks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
b e served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 

1741 
^3-
Applicant is the nineteenth largest banking organization 
and the sixth largest bank holding company in New York, controlling 
four banks which hold $350 million in deposits, equalling less than 
• 
.5 per cent of total bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data 
are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) 
Acquisition of Auburn National (deposits $30 million) would not 
significantly affect State-wide concentration. 
Applicant is a regional upstate holding company, presently 
operating in New York's Sixth, Eighth, and Ninth Banking Districts. 
Since Auburn National is located in the Sixth District, this proposal 
would not extend Applicant's operations beyond their present geo-
graphic limits. 
Auburn National is the only bank headquartered in Auburn, 
Cayuga County. The County is also served by branches of three large 
Syracuse-headquartered banks, and by two local banks with deposits 
of $4 
million and $13 million, respectively. Applicant's proposal 
Would eliminate home-office protection for Auburn, thereby creating 
a potential for increased competition through branching by competing 
banks. 
The closest subsidiary bank of Applicant, The State Bank 
o f Seneca Falls, $14.6 million in deposits, is located 15 miles west 
Auburn. The presence of physical barriers in the area intervening 
two banks, and the orientation of each bank toward a metropolitan 

1712 
-4-
iriatket centered in a different city, has prevented the existence of 
any meaningful competition between them. Therefore, consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would neither eliminate existing competition, 
foreclose potential competition, nor have any adverse effects on the 
viability or competitive effectiveness of any competing bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. Giving appropriate weight 
to Applicant's expressed intention of increasing the capital of its 
lead bank and of Auburn National, the banking factors, as applied to 
the facts of record, are consistent with approval of the application. 
The convenience and needs of the Auburn community would be enhanced 
bV Applicant's proposal to expand Auburn National's services. It is 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the 
Public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 

Order, unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 9 , 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, iiitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
'v-' .-L. •• 
•., . . " 
' 
a?..!..; 
.,.- 
. • 
'. I , 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1744 
Item No. 2 
6/9/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 
64*67 per cent of the voting shares 
°f City National Bank and Trust 
Company, Clearwater, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF 
BANK STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding com-
pany> for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition, for cash, of 
64 £7 
per cent of the voting shares of City National Bank and Trust 
Company, Clearwater, Florida ("Bank"). Applicant has assured the 
p 
r d that, within a reasonable period of time, a cash or stock 

1745 
-2-
exchange offer will be made to all holders of Bank shares not included 
in the current proposal and that such offer will be made on a basis 
that is not less favorable than the price paid for the controlling 
shares. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 11, 1970 (35 Federal Register 6025), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a H those received have been considered by the Board. 
Proceeding on the understanding that Applicant will make 
an offer to Bank s minority stockholders as proposed, the Board has 
c°nsidered the application in the light of the factors set forth in 
Section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of the proposed acquisi-
tion on competition, the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such 
consideration. the Board finds that: 

-3-
1746 
Applicant has 20 subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
of $585 million, is the third largest banking organization in Florida, 
and controls 5 per cent of the deposits in the State. 
(All banking 
data refer to insured commercial banks and are as of June 30, 1969, 
adjusted to reflect holding company acquisitions approved by the 
Board to date.) Bank, with deposits of $33 million, ranks eleventh 
among the 34 banks in Pinellas County; and ranks fourth among 12 banks 
in the relevant banking market which consists of the Clearwater area, 
including the City of Clearwater, Clearwater Beach, portions of 
Dunedin and Belleair, as well as portions of unincorporated areas 
north and south of Clearwater. Bank controls less than 10 per cent 
the deposits in the area. Although Bank and Applicant's sub-
sidiary in St. Petersburg are located in the same county, the record 
shows that they compete in separate banking markets. The two banks 
a r e 19 miles apart and are separated by the town of Largo, large un-
incorporated areas, and a number of intervening banks. All other sub-
sidiaries of Applicant are located more than 70 miles from Clearwater. 
appears that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not 
eliminate existing competition, foreclose any significant potential 
competition, nor have any unduly adverse effects on other banks in 
t h e area involved. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition 
in any relevant area. On the record in this matter, the banking factors 

175 
-4-
1747 
as they pertain to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and to Bank are 
regarded as consistent with approval of the application. Applicant 
proposes to improve the quality and quantity of banking services 
performed by Bank, which should provide benefits to the community 
served by Bank. It is the Board1s judgment that consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period shall be extended by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 9, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
1 I 

1748 
Item No. 3 
6/9/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C* 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC./ 
°enver, Colorado, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
The First National Bank of Greeley, 
> 
Greeley, Colorado. 
« 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The First National Bancorporation, 
*nc«, Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the 
B°ard's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
th 
e voting shares of The First National Bank of Greeley, Greeley, 
Colorado. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the 
Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
s and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
apPUcation. 

1749 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 5, 1969 (34 Federal Register 17930), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the application so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
° r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 9 , 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Ilaisel, 
and Brimmer. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
v v ' 
v , „ \ . . 
.. 
.. 
• • 
. 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
- 
,, 
(SEAL) 

1750 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF GREELEY, GREELEY, COLORADO 
STATEMENT 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board 
°f Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956 (12 u.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 
per cent or more of the voting shares of the First National Bank 
o £ Greeley, Greeley,- Colorado ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As required 
b y section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller of the 
Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views and 
recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of the appli-
cation. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
th 
G Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly 
O £ w°uld be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
Of »-
c o attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
^nited States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition the effect 
of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen 

- 2 -
1751 
competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner 
would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anti-
competitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in 
the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In each 
case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, the 
largest banking organization in Colorado, has four subsidiary banks 
1/ 
with total deposits of $555 million. 
All of its subsidiaries are 
located in the Denver Metropolitan area, and its largest subsidiary, 
First National Bank of Denver, accounts for all but $22 million of the 
total deposits held by banks in Applicant's organization. Acquisition 
Bank (deposits $39 million) would represent the first expansion 
Applicant since 1968, when it became a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of First National Bank of Denver and three affiliated 
hanks. Consummation of the present proposal would increase Applicant's 
control of total State deposits from 14.7 per cent to 15.7 per cent. 
All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding 
mPany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

1752 
-3-
Bank is the second largest of six banks in Greeley, and of 
15 banks in Weld County. The largest bank in the city and county is a 
subsidiary of Affiliated Bankshares of Colorado, Inc. ("Affiliated Bankshares") 
and the third largest is a subsidiary of Denver U.S. Bancorporation, Inc. 
("Denver U.S."). Both Affiliated Bankshares and Denver U.S. are bank 
holding companies, and rank fourth and second in size, respectively, among 
banking organizations in Colorado. Affiliated Bankshares also owns three 
other banks in Weld County, including two others in Greeley, and is 
the largest banking organization in both areas, controlling 37 per cent 
deposits in Weld County and 41 per cent of deposits held by banks in 
Greeley and its immediate environs. Bank and State Bank of Greeley (deposits 
Art 
million) are the only independent banks in Greeley. Bank holds 26 per cent 
o f deposits in Weld County, and 34 per cent of deposits in Greeley. 
The nearest office of any of Applicant's present subsidiary banks 
i s located about 50 miles from Greeley. Bank does not attract a significant 
amount of business from the Denver area. Of Applicant's subsidiary banks, 
° n l y *ts largest subsidiary draws any meaningful amount of business from 
Greeley or Weld County, and such business, which traces in the main to a 
£ 
large customers with credit needs which could not be met by Greeley banks, 
j 
e s not appear indicative of substantial competition with Bank. A mortgage 
c°mpany, the business of which was acquired by Applicant's lead bank in 1968, 
an office in Greeley which is now operated as a loan production office 
o f the bank. However, the activity of the office is limited by law to the 

1753 
-4-
solicitatiori of mortgage loan applications; loans made by the office are 
serviced by the Denver office of First National Bank of Denver. 
Two 
similar offices acquired at the same time as the Greeley office have been 
closed, and Applicant is reportedly evaluating the advisability of closing 
the Greeley office. According to data furnished by Applicant, the volume 
°f business generated by this office has, since its acquisition, fallen 
substantially short of producing fees sufficient to cover direct costs. 
In connection with Applicant's proposal, the Board has considered 
a comment from the Department of Justice, which concluded that: 
"[The acquisition] will eliminate substantial 
potential competition, and further entrench the 
present highly-concentrated banking structure 
in Greeley and Weld County. Moreover, it may 
trigger further acquisitions of leading local 
banks throughout Colorado by the large state-
wide holding companies, thereby reducing the 
possibility that additional holding companies 
will be created to offer competitive alter-
natives to the large holding companies. In 
view of the potential anticompetitive effects 
of this acquisition, we conclude that the 
granting of this application would have a 
significantly adverse effect on competition." 
It appears that the financial and managerial resources of 
Applicant are sufficient to enable it to enter into meaningful com-
Petition in Greeley through establishment and acquisition of a de novo 
kank, and it may in that sense be regarded as a potential competitor. 
TK 
e fact that such potential exists, however, does not of itself lead 
t o the conclusion that entry through the proposed acquisition would 
stantially lessen competition. In the absence of evidence indicating 
Probability (rather than a mere possibility) of de novo entry or entry 

ISP 
1754 
-i-
through a smaller acquisition, it is the Board's judgment that the means 
chosen by Applicant to expand into a new market should be prohibited only 
when there are other circumstances which dictate such a prohibition. 
In the present case, it is the Board's judgment that concentration 
in Greeley is not so high that any organization with ability to enter 
de novo should be required to do so, rather than acquiring an existing 
competitor. This conclusion is consistent with the view taken by the Board 
in 1965, when it permitted Denver U. S. to acquire a bank in Greeley, despite 
the fact that it had an ability to enter the area de novo comparable with 
that of Applicant. 
(Application of Denver U. S. Bancorporation, Inc., 
l 9 65 Federal Reserve Bulletin 811). More recently, the Board permitted 
Affiliated Bankshares to acquire four established banks in the Greeley -
W G l d County area, and did not find concentration a significant bar to that 
Proposal despite the fact that the four banks controlled a much larger 
q L -
, r e Of the market than does Greeley Bank. 
(1969 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
954). 
There are other proposals of which the Board has knowledge 
hich would alter the Colorado banking structure; however, only the 
Present application is properly before the Board at this time. That the 
Col 
°rado banking structure is being changed by the organization and ex-
nsion of bank holding companies cannot be doubted. Similar changes in 
n k l ng structure are taking place in the New England States, New Jersey, 
New v n 
v. 
rk> Virginia, Florida, Missouri, and elsewhere. But there is no 

-6-
175 
presumption that the status quo in any State represents a competitive ideal; 
in each case, the Board must base its determination on the effect of the 
Particular proposal before it. Congress has not yet given the Board 
authority to shape the banking structure of any State or area by 
Initiating changes, or by committing itself to a course of action with 
respect to applications which satisfy some predetermined guidelines or some 
level of concentration ratios. In this case, the Board is not passing on 
Possible acquisitions in Pueblo, Colorado Springs, or Denver. This case 
stands on its own merits, and Board action here is without prejudice one way 
0 r another to subsequent applications, except as the size and competitive 
influence of Applicant may be changed thereby. 
The present proposal represents Applicant's first expansion 
outside the Denver.area. It will not dominate banking in Greeley or any 
other area as a result of the acquisition. Although one of the competitors 
i n Greeley is also a leading competitor in Denver, the largest banking 
°rganization in Greeley, in terms of local operations, is a regional holding 
c°mpany with which Applicant does not presently compete in any area. Con-
summation of this proposal, therefore, would not create a structure in 
Gte 
°eley mirroring that in Denver or any other market. Sufficient diversity 
^ould be maintained to prevent the development of an anticompetitive 
c°rrmunity of interest, and Bank would be strengthened in its ability to 
Provide meaningful competition. In view of these considerations, the Board 
°ncludes that approval of the present application would not substantially 
lessen competition in Greeley, and would not hinder the Board in dealing 
appropriately with any anticompetitive acquisitions in other areas of the 
State. 

-7-
1756 
The Board concludes that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
W o u l d n o t result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination, 
conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any area, 
and would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
°r restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
T he financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is generally 
Satisfactory, their management is capable, and prospects of the group appear 
favorable. 
Bank' s financial condition is satisfactory, as is its present 
management. There is a need for development of successor management, 
however, and Applicant could assist Bank in meeting this need. Bank's 
Prospects, which appear favorable in any event, would be enhanced by 
affiliation with Applicant, 
These considerations are consistent with, and lend some support 
toward, approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consummation 
°f the present proposal would not significantly affect customers served 
A p p H c a n t ig subsidiaries in the Denver area. 
Weld County is one of the 10 leading counties in the country 
aSricultural production. In addition, industrial activity has begun 
take place in the eastern portion of the county, in which area Greeley 
located. The increasing credit demands created in the area as a result 

1757 
-8-
of these forces have strained the capacity of local banks to meet such 
needs, and the need for larger credit lines than could be supplied in 
the past by local banks has forced some borrowers to turn to non-local 
sources of credit. These facts are illustrated in the present record 
by Bank's 70 per cent loan-to-deposit ratio, and by the fact that 
Applicant's largest subsidiary in Denver has been serving some of the 
large agricultural borrowers in Greeley. 
A large portion of the credit resources of Bank are devoted 
to serving agricultural customers. Applicant proposes, through a new 
subsidiary which it would establish, to assist in providing credit to 
agricultural communities served by its subsidiaries. It also proposes 
t o assist Bank in developing its real estate department, and to arrange 
placement by Bank of mortgage loans which it originates with insti-
tutional investors with whom Applicant's lead bank now has similar 
arrangements. Through these means, present demands on Bank's resources 
would be relieved, permitting Bank to supply additional credit to meet 
°ther needs of the area. Improvements are also proposed in the trust 
services offered by Bank. 
These considerations support approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°utained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
Section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction xrould be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
June 9, 1970. 

1758 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR MITCHELL 
My purpose in presenting a Concurring Statement is to provide 
some additional background data on the character of banking markets in 
Weld County pertinent to the issues of underbanking and concentration. 
The Table attached compares selected markets for financial institutions 
in Weld County and two counties adjacent to it, Larimer and Boulder. 
I have also considered each of the three counties as a market and 
compared the flfceres of deposit liabilities and assets held by each of 
the three major banking organizations in the county with the shares 
neld by all other banks in the county as a group. This comparison 
has been made for several local bank asset and liability categories. 
Is Weld underbanked, as contended by the minority? 
The Table shows that Weld is more fully banked relative to population 
than either of the other counties; 5,100 persons per banking office 
compared to 6,700 and 8,200 for Larimer and Boulder, respectively. 
There is nothing in these figures to indicate an underbanked situation; 
fact, based on going experience under similar conditions of population 
density and branching limitations, the number of offices in Weld is 
entirely adequate. In approving the formation of Affiliated Bankshares 
1969 the Board did not note an underbanked condition in Weld. 
Another factor bearing on this issue and the competitive 
inking situation in Weld is the role of savings and loan associations. 

1759 
k 
A 
These intermediaries are often important competitors to banks in 
deposit markets. They turn out to be less important competitors, 
as the Table shows, in Ueld than in cither Boulder or Larimer, 
Thus, 
Per capita total bank deposits are higher in Weld ($1,675) than in 
Larimer ($1,490) or Boulder ($1,382) and most of the difference arises 
from larger savings and time accounts in Weld. If, however, the total 
savings and loan share accounts are taken into account, the position 
°f Weld is reversed and it ranks lower than either Larimer or Boulder. 
Obviously, banks in Weld have been more successful in meeting savings 
ar*d loan competition than banks in the other counties. This is also 
evident from the fact that the number of time and savings accounts 
Per capita is significantly higher in Weld (.44 compared to .38 and .36). 
These facts do not, however, undermine the initial judgment, because the 
Population relationship to the combined number of banking and savings 
and loan offices also indicates Weld to be more adequately provided 
vith offices than either of the other counties. 
The other item of information bearing on adequacy of 
banking offices is the penetration of demand deposit markets as 
Measured by number of checking accounts per capita. There are fewer 
i n Weld (.39) than in Boulder (.48) or Larimer (.47). These relative 
numbers appear to reflect differences among the three counties in 
economic environment and in the promotion by their banks of small 
decking accounts. 

17t>0 
I 
Overall, fche data suggest that banking conditions and 
structures in ths>ee counties are roughly comparable and that 
an additional office of a major bank by de novo entry is not needed 
in Weld. Similar data 
for areas of comparable population suggest that 
a fourth unit or holding company banking office in Greeley would 
likely dilute the quality of banking services by restricting opportunities 
for achieving economies of scale because of market fragmentation. 
Further analysis shows that the largest banking organization 
in each county has about 40 per cent of the county market, using the 
crude measure of total deposits. The largest organizations are 
Affiliated Bankshares in Weld (37%) and Boulder (40%) and Western 
Bancorporation in Larimer (37%). These shares are substantially 
Inflated by disproportionate shares of deposits of local governments 
the largest banks in Boulder and Larimer, and to a lesser extent 
b y the relative concentration of larger time and demand deposit 
accounts in such banks in all three counties. 
The total share of the market held by organisations other 
than the three largest in each county, again crudely, but in this 
Instance more satisfactorily, treasured by total deposits, is 21% in 
W e l d> 10 banks; 22% in Larimer, 8 banks; and 32% in Boulder, 7 banks. 
Analysis of the shares of various categories of assets and 
liabilities shows that certain institutions have specialized in particular 
arGas of service; others have tried to maintain a balanced position in 

1761 
all of such areas. 
Applicant's proposed Greeley affiliate is of the 
latter type, so far as its liability structure is concerned, although 
it has had somewhat greater success in attracting savings deposits 
over $10,000. On the asset side, its real estate loans are minimal 
and the share of loans to individuals very low. On the other hand, it 
has much larger shares of State and local securities and commercial 
and industrial loans. 
Market specialization, which at least theoretically could 
lead to dominant positions, is found in the holdings of State and 
local government deposits as well as the State and local security 
issues held by Western Bancorporation in Larimer and by Affiliated 
Bank3hares in Boulder and, to a lesser degree, in Weld. However, 
there i3 little evidence that such specialization as exists has led to 
a dominant position by any bank in any of the private local deposit or 
asset markets. In fact, the data are pretty much to the c o a t r a r y in 
indicating not only an absence of domination in particular markets, but 
in 
revealing efforts on the part of each of these banks or groups of 
kanks to be competitive in most markets. 
J u n e 9, 1970. 

1 7 6 2 
Table 
Financial Institution Markets In Weld, Larimer & Boulder Counties 
BairaUA°n ( t h o u9ands) 
popui (number--excl. industrial) 
SaL 
t l o n P e r banking office 
PoIJ?88 & !oan offices 
J Nation per banking and savings & 
' O S " , , 0 ? " 
Total ? a n k deposits per capita 
, 
bank deposits & savings & 
a n shares per capita 
^^f^osits 
NumbG 
accounts (thousands) 
I
D^and o f accounts per capita 
Jet c ®8 a Per cent of total deposit 
Aver
 
i n accounts over $15,000 
Totni 
8 i z e 
accounts under $1,000 
91 amount per capita 
Accounta 
Tlnje.:®""nu®ber of accts. (thousands) 
Tl^?S,*"nutnbGr o f accts. per capita 
Savtn 
" 
" 
" 
A V e r4e & T i m e ' ~ a m o u n t per capita 
Un^., 8 i 2 e of savings accts 
8Qvin 
& loan accounts per capita 
' l°an 0f & 8avings and savings & 
8hares per capita 
Weld 
Larimer 
Boulder 
81.4 
80.3 
114.7 
16 
12 
14 
5,100 
6,700 
8,200 
3 
4 
9 
4,300 
5,000 
5,000 
$1,675 
$1,490 
$1,382 
$2,021 
$2,235 
$2,172 
31.3 
37.9 
55.0 
.39 
.47 
.48 
31 
33 
36 
40 
33 
31 
$273 
$208 
$249 
$520 
$494 
$501 
29.4 
23.0 
39.5 
6.7 
5.3 
4.1 
.36 
.29 
.34 
.08 
.07 
.04 
$822 
$658 
$592 
$272 
$208 
$249 
$346 
$745 
$790 
$1,168 
$1,403 
$1,382 

17G3 
Dissenting Statement of Governors Robet'tdon, Maisfei, and Brimmer 
Applicant, whose lead bank serves large depositors and mortgage 
borrowers in Greeley, proposes to acquire the largest independent bank in 
that city. Consummation of the proposal would substantially lessen present 
and potential competition in the Greeley area. Not only are there no 
considerations which outweigh these anticompetitive effects, but other 
facts of record indicate that such effects will be accentuated by the 
pronounced trend toward concentration now occurring in Colorado, and that 
Greeley residents may be inconvenienced by the closing of the mortgage loan 
production office now serving the area. In our judgment, these facts, 
considered in the light of the statutory criteria, require that the 
application be denied. 
Deposits of Greeley banks increased by more than $40 million, 
or about 55 per cent, in the five year period between June 1964 and 
June 1969, and further increases of the same magnitude may reasonably be 
expected in the future. Loan demand in the area has also been unusually 
strong. The area, long a leader in agricultural production, is now 
developing industrially as well. These facts, clearly indicative 
of banking opportunities, have not escaped Applicant's attention. Its 
lead bank now serves some of the largest customers in the area, and serves 
mortgage borrowers through a recently acquired loan production office in 
Greeley. 
It is not unnatural, nor is it to be condemned, that Applicant 
should desire to participate more fully in the anticipated growth of the 
Greeley area. But instead of employing its considerable financial and 

1764 
- 2 -
tnanagerial resources to expand its present operations to provide full 
banking services in Greeley, it proposes to buy out an effectivfe competitor 
at a large price. Under its proposal, Applicant will exchange shares 
with a market value of $11.7 million for shares of Bank having a market 
value of about $5.3 million. Applicant thus will pay approximately 17 cents 
in premium for each dollar of deposits held by Bank. 
If only a fraction of the expenses which Applicant will incur 
in connection with the proposed acquisition were to be spent in developing 
a new vehicle to expand its present operations in Greeley, it is clear 
that substantial new competition would be created in the area. But an 
unusually high premium such as that involved here is not incurred in an 
effort to create or foster competition, but rather to avoid it. As a 
result of the payment, Applicant will achieve its desired place in the 
Greeley economy without necessity of competing for it, and the Greeley 
public will be denied the benefits, in price and service, which additional 
competition might engender. 
Of itself, the effect of the elimination of present and 
potential competition between Applicant and Bank is sufficiently 
serious to preclude approval of Applicant's proposal. The setting in 
which the acquisition will occur - a rapidly accelerating trend toward 
concentration in markets throughout Colorado - underscores that anti-
competitive effect. 

1765 
-3-
Thete are six sigrtifIcUtifc banking markets in the State of Colorado, 
centered in the cities of Denver, Colorado Springs, Boulder, Fort Collins, 
Greeley, and Pueblo. At present, Applicant and Denver U. S. Bancorporation, 
Inc. control the two largest banks in Denver. Denver U. S. also controls 
the third largest bank in Boulder, the third largest in Greeley, the second 
largest in Fort Collins, and the fourth largest in Pueblo. A regional 
holding company, Affiliated Bankshares of Colorado, Inc. controls the 
largest banks in Boulder, Greeley, and Colorado Springs, and the third 
largest in the Fort Collins area. Under proposals announced but not yet 
considered by the Board, Applicant would acquire the second largest 
bank in Colorado Springs and the largest bank in Pueblo, and Denver U; S. 
would acquire the third largest bank in Colorado Springs. Thus, approval 
of the present application and the other proposals mentioned, in the light 
of the present structure of the markets involved, would result in Applicant, 
Denver U. S., and Affiliated Bankshares controlling among them the two 
largest banks in Denver, the three largest in Colorado Springs and Greeley, 
1/ 
two of the three largest in Boulder and in Fort Collins, 
and two of the 
four largest in Pueblo. It is apparent that such a banking structure would 
leave little room for competition by other banking organizations, and it is 
clear to us that to allow such a structure to develop would be inconsistent 
1/ The largest bank in Fort Collins is a subsidiary of Western Bancorporation, 
a California-based holding company. 

1766 
-4-
j 
with the CbrtgrdSSidnal triandate tib control the expansion of bank holding 
companies so as to prevent the concentration of banking resources in 
a few large organizations. 
The Board's majority has determined to await another day to inter-
rupt this trend, if,indeed ,it is to be interrupted at all. We recognize, as 
the majority does, that each case must be decided on its own merits. 
But precisely because we cannot now determine the merits of any proposal 
which may follow the present one, it is essential that the Board not now 
approve any acquisition in furtherance of that trend where approval is not 
clearly required by considerations bearing upon the public convenience 
and needs. It is possible that future cases may present a strong showing 
of such needs, so that, having permitted the first links of the chain 
which leads to oligopoly to be forged upon a minimal showing, the chain 
might be completed by more difficult cases. The only way to assure 
maintenance of a competitive structure once an anticompetitive trend 
is perceived is to require that every proposal which is in furtherance of 
such a trend be subjected to the closest scrutiny. The present proposal 
fails to withstand even a cursory inquiry. 
In our view, the effect of consummation of Applicant's 
proposal will be to substantially lessen future competition in Greeley, 
in Weld County, and perhaps in other Colorado areas which might otherwise 
have been served by a new organization in which Bank could have significantly 
participated. Even if the anticompetitive effects of the proposal were 

1767 
-5-
to be regarded as less than substantial, we would not agree that its 
consummation will be in the public interest. The acquisition of a bank 
which has been actively serving the needs of its community does not fore-
cast improvement in meeting area needs. Moreover, of clearly negative 
impact on community convenience and needs is the probable closing of a 
2/ 
mortgage loan production office which has originated almost $19 million 
in mortgage loans in Greeley which are now being serviced by Applicant's 
lead bank, including $1.7 million in new loans made during the first 10 months 
of 1969. 
On all the facts of record, we believe the application should be 
denied. 
June 9, 1970 
2/ The Board's majority Statement suggests that this office might be closed 
at any rate, because of unprofitableness. The record indicates that Applicant 
has not yet determined the future of the office, except that it will likely 
be closed if the proposed acquisition is consummated. Assuming that the 
office cannot be profitably operated as a limited-service facility, Applicant 
would appear to have some incentive for expanding its activities under a 
new bank charter, if such incentive were not destroyed by approval of the 
present proposal. 

1768 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 4 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 0 5 5 I 
6 / 9 / 7 0 
June 10, 
1970 
The Honorable William B. Camp 
Comptroller of the Currency 
Treasury Department 
Washington, D. C. 
20220 
Dear Mr. Camp: 
This refers to the Certification of July 25, 1969, made 
by Acting Comptroller of the Currency, J. T. Watson, pursuant to 
section 202(e)(2) of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 
1966 ("the Act"), 12 U.S.C. 1818(e)(2), regarding the removal of 
Charles G. Bollinger, President and Director, First National Bank 
("FNB"), St. Robert, Missouri. 
Section 202(e)(2) sets out substantive elements which 
must be proven in order to effectuate removal of an officer or a 
director of a national bank under the Act. Section 202(e)(2) 
further provides that when, in the opinion of the Comptroller, 
any officer or director of a national bank engages in conduct 
specified therein, the Comptroller may "certify the facts" to the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. In the case of 
such certification the Board may, pursuant to section 202(e)(7) of 
the Act, 12 U.S.C. 1818(e)(7), serve upon the officer or director 
involved a written notice of its intention to remove him from 
office. Such notice must contain the facts constituting the grounds 
upon which the notice is based and must set a date for a hearing 
thereon within 30 to 60 days subsequent to the issuance of the notice. 
(Section 202(e)(8) of the Act, 12 U.S.C. 1818(e)(8).) 
The clear intent of the Congress in enacting the various 
provisions of the Act was to place the Board in a quasi-judicial 
role with respect to the removal of officers and directors of national 
banks. There is no indication in any provision of the Act, or in its 
legislative history, that the Board's responsibilities thereunder were, 
to include pre-notice investigation, as for example, by way of inter-
view, depositions or bank examinations. The Act contains an enforce-
ment structure which places upon the Comptroller the obligation to 
certify sufficient "facts" as would enable the Board to issue a notice 
containing facts which would satisfy the requirements of section 202(e)(8). 

17G!) 
The honorable William B. Camp 
-2-
The requirements of section 2.02(c)(8) can only be satisfied by the 
issuance of a notice under section 202(e)(7) which contains factual 
allegations covering each element required to be proven under sec-
tion 202(e)(2). 
In the absence of a certification containing such 
factual allegations the Board is without authority to issue a notice 
under section 202(e)(7) of the Act. 
The Board's staff has examined your Certification of 
July 25th and has concluded that it is unable to frame therefrom 
a notice of intent to remove Mr. Bollinger which it is believed 
would satisfy the requirements of the Act. However, if after review -
in the light of our comments - you believe that your Certification is 
factually sufficient to premise the issuance by the Board of a notice 
of intent to remove Mr. Bollinger from his position at FNB, this 
matter will be placed on the Board's agenda for decision. 
In the staff's judgment additional facts in the following 
areas should be certified to the Board regarding Mr. Bollinger: 
citation of applicable laws, rules and regulations which you have 
determined were violated by Mr. Bollinger in connection with trans-
actions referred to in the Certification; identification of particu-
lar unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duties 
participated or engaged in by Mr. Bollinger in connection with any 
such transaction; the manner in which such violations, practices or 
breaches of duty involve personal dishonesty on his part; the manner 
in which and whether in connection with such transactions FNB may 
sustain loss, damage or serious prejudice to the interest of its 
depositors; whether in respect to the Acme or Norvell accounts, 
funds were disbursed therefrom for the benefit and/or use of Mr. 
Bollinger; whether in respect to the Seven Palms escrow account, or 
the Pulaski County Land Development loan account, funds were improperly 
disbursed therefrom into the Acme and Norvell accounts without consid-
eration to Seven Palms or to Pulaski Land Development Corporation; 
regarding your Statement of Facts that "President Bollinger it appears 
has attempted to conceal his activities by use of fictitious accounts", 
a specification of the "activities" to which you refer and the manner 
in which Bollinger has "concealed" such activities. 
We regret the passage of time since receipt of your Certifi-
cation; however, in that period our staff has discussed with your staff 
at some length our mutual responsibilities under the Act, and the Board 
has instituted proceedings pursuant to other provisions of the Act, 
froiv? which the staff has gained further insight and judgment with 
respect to the quantum of facts needed to support such a notice. While 
there may be no difference of judgment in the latter respect between 
our staffs, the earlier discussed area of responsibility for developing 
essential facts is one as to which we believe mutual understanding and 
concurrence is essential. 

1770 
The Honorable William B. Camp 
-3-
Accordingly, v?e would appreciate your further consideration 
of the matter of the amount and nature of facts necessary to support 
the issuance of such a notice of intention to remove any officer or 
director, as well as the most effective and responsible method to be 
employed in obtaining such facts, not only with regard to the Bollinger 
matter, but respecting such matters in general. Our staff will be as 
helpful as possible to your staff, if you so desire, looking to the 
earliest possible presentation of an adequate Certification to the 
Board regarding Mr. Bollinger. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
