Minutes for 
October 11, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed "to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
. "... i ' .. . \ . 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

o o 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Friday, October 11, 
1968. The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Miss Eaton and Mrs. Winkler of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, 
Eckert, Keir, Shull, Baker, Burns, Ettin, 
Fry, Kelty, and Kichline, and Miss Stockwell 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Ghiardi, Hersey, Bradshaw, Gekker, 
Gemmill, and Stem of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. The staff presented a review consisting 
of reports by Mr. Baker on the Government securities market, by Mr. 
Fry on recent and prospective bank credit developments, by Mr. Ettin 
on the corporate and municipal bond markets, and by Mr. Stem on the 
foreign exchange and gold markets. Copies of the several charts and 
tables distributed for the purpose of today's review have been placed 
in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions except Messrs. Partee 
and Shull then withdrew and the following entered: 

O O fC3 
10/11/68 
-2-
Messrs. Hexter, Shay, and Lipkowitz of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Solomon, Egertson, Smith, Achor, Fleming, 
Garwood, and Schober of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification at 
the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on October 7 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
and Dallas on October 10, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Central National Bank of Richmond, Richmond, Virginia, 
into Tower National Bank, also of Richmond, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller, the conclusion stating that the 
merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 
deposit liabilities of The Peoples Bank, Science Hill, Kentucky, by 
The First and Farmers National Bank of Somerset, Somerset, Kentucky, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller in a form 
in which the conclusion read as follows: 

o o <\j 
10/11/68 
-3-
The close relationship which has existed for many 
years between The Peoples Bank, Science Hill, and The 
First and Farmers National Bank of Somerset, and the 
small size of The Peoples Bank have precluded the devel-
opment of effective competition between them. Consumma-
tion of the proposed merger would, however, permanently 
foreclose the possibility of future competition in the 
event the close relationship should be terminated. The 
proposal would also add to the dominance of The First 
and Farmers National Bank, the area's largest institu-
tion, which holds about 64 per cent of area deposits 
and operates 3 of 6 banking offices. The resulting 
bank and the other bank in the area with which it is 
closely associated would control 73 per cent of the 
area deposits and operate 5 of the 6 banking offices. 
Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be substantially adverse. 
The Board recognizes that there is a question 
whether or not the affiliation itself may constitute a 
combination in restraint of trade within the meaning of 
Section 1 of the Sherman Act. However, the Board 
expresses no opinion on this point. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Eastern Trust 
and Banking Company, Bangor, Maine, and Kenduskeag Banking Company, 
also of Bangor, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Corporation, the conclusion stating that the merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
Truth in lending. In a memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated October 8, 1968, it was recommended that 
an attached draft of a regulation on truth in lending, with such minor 
changes as might be considered appropriate, be published in the Federal 
Register for comments and that 30 days be allowed for receipt of such 
comments. 

10/11/68 
-4-
It was noted that the draft reflected extensive study, analysis, 
and review, including consultation with a number of experts. The Truth 
in Lending Advisory Committee had been supplied with an earlier version 
of the regulation, which was reviewed thoroughly by the Committee on 
September 12-13. The present draft incorporated the Committee's com-
ments . 
A draft of press release had also been distributed. 
Governor Robertson said that he had discussed the draft regu-
lation with Governor Mitchell, and as a result of that discussion 
would propose that a prefatory note be inserted explaining briefly the 
benefits to consumers and obligations of lenders and creditors. He 
also proposed certain clarifying changes in the press release and 
suggested that arrangements be made for a briefing session one day 
next week when Board members could review the regulation with the 
staff section by section. 
Governor Maisel raised a series of questions regarding various 
provisions of the regulation, and members of the staff explained the 
factors that had been involved in developing the several provisions. 
Against this background, Governor Maisel proposed certain editorial 
changes in the press release for purpose of clarification. He also 
suggested that a change be made in the heading of a table attached to 
the press release that had been worked out by Board and Treasury 
Department staff to help creditors determine the annual percentage 

O O c 
10/11/68 
-5-
rates to be disclosed in connection with instalment and other types 
of credit other than open end. There was general agreement with these 
suggestions, as well as Governor Robertson's recommendation for addi-
tion of the prefatory note. 
It was then agreed to release the draft regulation next week 
for public comment. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Political activity. Reference was made to advice received 
through the President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas concerning 
a press report to the effect that a director of the Houston Branch had 
been appointed to the steering committee of an organization supporting 
a candidate for the office of President of the United States. After 
some discussion, it was agreed that more information would have to be 
obtained before the activity could be evaluated in relation to the 
Board's resolution of December 23, 1915. In this connection, however, 
Governor Maisel urged that a policy statement be drafted setting forth 
general guidelines for interpretation of the application of the 1915 
resolution to various types of political activities. It was understood 
that the staff would prepare such a document for the Board's considera-
tion. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
