609 
Minutes for 
February 26, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

719 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, February 26, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
M r . Daane 
M r . Maisel 
M r . Sherrill 
M r . Holland, Secretary 
M r . Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
M r . Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . Hexter, General Counsel 
M r . Kelleher, Director, Division of Admin-
istrative Services 
M r . Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
M r . Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
M r . Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
M r . Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
M r . Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Lynch and Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy, Freedman, and Fisher of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, and Goodfellow of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Millea and Waller of the Office of the 
Controller 

720 
2/26/69 
-2-
Printing of truth in lending tables. Following explanatory 
comments by M r . Smith, unanimous approval was given to a recommendation 
that 75,000 copies each of two volumes of tables designed for use by 
creditors under Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, be contracted for 
with an outside printer at a cost of up to $50,000. 
(It was under-
stood that a charge would be made for these volumes, except to the 
enforcing agencies, thus recouping at least part of the cost.) The 
resultant overexpenditure in the pertinent account of this year's 
budget was also approved. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Seattle-First National Bank, 
1 
Seattle, Washington, granting permission 
for acquisition of the stock of Seattle-
First National Bank (Zurich) A.G., to be 
formed in Zurich, Switzerland. 
Letter to Bank of Arlington, Arlington, 
2 
Washington, approving its application 
for admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Letter to The Kentucky Trust Company, 
3 
Louisville, Kentucky, waiving the filing of 
a 1968 trust asset survey report form. 

2/26/69 
-3-
Item No. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
4 
New York approving the opening and main-
tenance of an account in the name of 
Banca Nazionale Somala (National Bank of 
Somalia). 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
5 
New York authorizing that Bank to receive 
and hold in custody for the account of the 
Deutsche Bundesbank (German Federal Bank) 
securities pledged to the Bundesbank to 
secure payment or performance of an obligation. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
6 
Minneapolis approving the payment of 
salaries to three officers at the rates 
fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Application of First National Bank of Fort Worth. A memo-
randum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
February 14, 1969, and other pertinent papers had been distributed in 
connection with an application of The First National Bank of Fort 
Worth, Fort Worth, Texas, a registered bank holding company, for 
permission to acquire 24.9 per cent of the voting shares of Great 
Southwest National Bank of Arlington, Arlington, Texas, a proposed 
new bank. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an appropriate order and statement would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration. 
Reply to Commission on Mortgage Interest Rates (Item No. 7). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated February 19, 1969, 
from the Division of Research and Statistics submitting a draft reply 

/ 
^ ^ 
2/26/69 
-4-
to a questionnaire from the Commission on Mortgage Interest Rates 
relating to housing production and finance. 
In view of the number 
and scope of questions and the time element involved, the Division 
proposed that the document be sent as a staff memorandum. 
Mr. Fisher suggested that a few minor editorial changes be 
made in the memorandum, following which a letter to the Commission 
on Mortgage Interest Rates was approved unanimously in the form 
attached as Item No. 7. 
Annual audit of financial statements and budget performance 
report (Item No. 8). There had been distributed documents entitled 
(1) Financial Statements and Report Thereon, and (2) Report on 
Scope of Examination of Financial Statements, both submitted by the 
firm of Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery following their audit of 
the Board's accounts for the year ended December 31, 1968. 
There had also been distributed a memorandum from the Office 
of the Controller dated February 5, 1969, submitting a review of 
performance under the Board's budget for the year 1968. 
With regard to the budget review, Governor Sherrill observed 
that this year an attempt would be made to turn the document into a 
true performance report, to enable comparisons between programs and 
results. 
The report of the auditors was then accepted, and it was 
understood that copies would be transmitted to the Chairmen of the 

y y 
"i 
2/26/69 
-5. 
Senate and House Banking and Currency Committees. A copy of the 
letter subsequently sent to the Chairman of the Senate Committee 
is attached as Item No. 8. 
The budget performance report was also accepted. 
It was 
noted that although most budget account overexpenditures had been 
approved before the end of 1968, several specified items totaling 
$17,505 had not been submitted for approval. Acceptance of the 
budget performance report constituted approval of these remaining 
overexpenditures. 
Truth in Lending Advisory Committee. 
Governor Robertson 
urged all Board members to attend at least the morning session of 
the meeting of the Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending to be 
held tomorrow, February 27. He anticipated that each member of 
• , 
\ 
the Committee would make known his views on the information pro-
gram, and those views could subsequently be weighed by the Board. 
Kennedy questionnaire. 
Governor Robertson referred to 
letters dated February 24, 1969, from Senator Kennedy, Chairman of 
the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure of the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 
These letters, addressed individually 
to each of the members of the Board, requested views on several 
questions relating to administrative procedures. 
It was agreed that as a first step the staff would assemble 

724 
2/26/69 
-6-
factual information on which a reply or replies might be based. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

f p c r 
i 
OfGOv^,. 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
2/26/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 26, 1969. 
Seattle-First National Bank, 
Second Avenue at Cherry Street 
P. 0. Box 3586, 
Seattle, Washington. 
98124 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 26, 1968 
the 
Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of 
Bank r s - ™- r
e
s L % M ' 
^
g U l a t i
°
n M
>
 
f o r
 Seattle-First National 
flank < S-FNB ) , Seattle, Washington, to purchase and hold all of the 
stock of Seattle-First National Bank (Zurich) A.G. ("S-FNB Zurich") 
S? K n Z
e
d
 
^
 
Z U r i C h
'
 
S w i t z e r l
^ d , at a cost of approximately 
91,150 000 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
Of q ™ 
7 T h e l ° t
r d
l
S
^ °
n S e n t 
t 0 
t h e 
a c <
l
u i s i t
i o n and holding of shares 
of s I p M n 
?
 
i S 
8 r a n t e d 
S U b j e C t 
t 0 
t h e 
a
P P
l i c
^ l e provisions 
of Section 25 and Regulation M and to the following conditions: 
(1) 
That such shares shall be disposed of as promptly as practicable 
if S-FNB Zurich shall in any manner engage in any activity 
or take any action whatsoever that would not be permissible 
if S-FNB Zurich were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) 
(3) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors 
S-FNB will 
B
°
a r d W i t h 
S U C h 
r e p o r t s 
r e
g a ^ i n g the activities 
of S-FNB Zurich as it may require from time to time; 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by S-FNB Zurich 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if S-FNB Zurich were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

I 
i 
Seattle-First National Bank 
-2-
(4) 
That S-FNB shall not carry on its books the shares of S-FNB 
Zurich at a net amount in excess of its proportionate share 
of the book capital accounts of S-FNB Zurich, after giving 
effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends 
until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately 
preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines estab-
lished under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they 
apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation 
and Seattle-First International Corporation, and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

< K, f 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
2/26/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 26, 1969. 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Arlington, 
Arlington, Washington. 
98223 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of Bank of Arlington, Arlington, Washington, for stock 
in the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope 
of the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions 
in the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 
208.7 thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 

Bank of Arlington 
-2-
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board of 
Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of such 
resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required 
reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the 
bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find-
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R B 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
2/26/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 27, 1969. 
Mr. Neville Blakemore, President, 
The Kentucky Trust Company, 
P. 0. Box 1677, 
Louisville, Kentucky 
40201 
Dear M r . Blakemore: 
Reference is made to your letter of February 6, 1969, 
addressed to M r . Wilbur H . Isbell, Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis. 
In that letter you stated you were converting 
trust bookkeeping from an essentially manual system to an automated 
system. You mention the problems involved and asked that the 
bank not be required to file a report giving the market value of 
trust assets. 
The Board has considered your request and has waived the 
requirement that The Kentucky Trust Company file a 1968 trust asset 
survey report. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

730 
T LEA,to L E ^ E R V . C E
 M
 
I
t e m
 No. 4 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM26769 
WASHINGTON 
February 26, 1969. 
MAC LAURY - NEW YORK 
Re your wire of February 20. 
Board approves opening and maintenan 
of an account on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
in the name of Banca Nazionale Somala, subject to the usual terms 
and conditions. 
It is understood that participation in this 
account will be offered to other Federal Reserve Banks. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

731 
Item No. 5 
T E L E G R A M 
2/26/69 
L E A S E D WIRE SERVICE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
February 26, 1969 
MACLAURY - NEW YORK 
The Board of Governors approves your request of February 20, 
1969, that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York be authorized 
to receive and hold in custody for the account of the Deutsche 
Bundesbank securities pledged to the Bundesbank to secure 
payment or performance of an obligation. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

732 
of cow!' •. 
A,'. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
2/26/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 26, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Hugh D . Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
» 
> 
Dear M r . Galusha: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salaries 
to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis listed 
below for the period March 1 through December 31, 1969. 
Annua1 
Name 
Title 
Salary 
Howard L . Knous 
Vice President 
$26,000 
Leonard W . Fernelius 
Vice President 
23,500 
Bruce J. Hedblom 
Assistant Vice President 
17,000 
These salaries are at the rates set by your Board of 
Directors as reported in your letter of February 13, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

733 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
2/26/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E " 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 26, 1969. 
•1 
M r . James S. Duesenberry, Chairman, 
Commission on Mortgage Interest Rates, 
Department of Housing and Urban Dvelopment, 
Washington, D. C . 
Attention: 
M r . Frederick W . Deming 
Dear M r . Duesenberry: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of January 29, 1969, the Board of Governors has 
authorized its staff to transmit to the Committee the 
enclosed memorandum responding to your questionnaire on mort-
gage interest rates. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures 
X t -3,: i i. 
C.rt ;: • 

734 
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD STAFF MEMORANDUM TO 
QUESTIONNAIRE FOR COMMISSION ON MORTGAGE INTEREST RATES 
1. 
It has been estimated that the Nation's housing needs 
during the coming years require, on the average, construction 
or rehabilitation of 2 million housing units a year for the 
general commercial market plus 600,000 units a year for low-
income families. 
(a) Do you foresee an adequate supply of mortgage funds 
to finance this volume of homebuilding (or whatever volume 
you feel will meet the Nation's needs)? 
(b) Do you foresee that these funds will be available 
at "reasonable" cost (i.e., at reasonable interest rates) 
to builders and home buyers? 
(c) Do you favor a combination of sufficient fiscal 
restraint and monetary ease to assure that the needed real 
and financial resources are available to support this vol-
ume of homebuilding while maintaining reasonable price 
stability? 
Any steps to meet our housing goals within the framework of 
a free market system obviously will have to be taken in the context 
of over-all public and private requirements for all types of goods 
and services--including defense and other priority Government pro-
grams. 
If these demands in aggregate continue to press against our 
growing but still limited resource capacity--which we think likely--
then it will be necessary to employ meaningful economic restraint 
in public economic policy--through monetary or fiscal measures, or 
both. 
It follows, therefore, that to the extent social priorities 
call for an easier monetary policy than otherwise would be indicated, 
fiscal policy must be commensurately more restrictive. 
Stating housing goals in terms of number alone, however, 
can be misleading in any determination of over-all credit 

- 2 -
735 
requirements. 
First, there is the question of whether credit flows can 
be diverted from other uses into housing through improvements in mar-
kets, subsidies and other inducements. 
Second, is the question of how 
much credit will be needed to finance the housing goals. What propor-
tion of starts in the regular market will consist of lower-cost multi-
family units, for example? 
What allowance in either the regular or 
subsidized market is to be made for lower-priced mobile homes, which do 
not count as starts but do provide shelter? 
What shifts in the regional 
distribution of housing starts is to be expected? 
Different assumptions 
about these and related compositional factors would obviously yield 
significantly different estimates of financing requirements. 
Stating housing goals in terms of funds required just for 
new housing may also be misleading in terms of the total credit burden 
implied. 
An annual starts average approaching 2.6 million housing 
units--or nearly three-fourths above last year's total--would, for 
example, involve a large--though perhaps less than proportionate--
increase in the number and dollar volume of supporting transactions to 
be financed in the market for existing homes. 
In addition, it would 
require a commensurate increase in outlays for schools, streets, and 
other elements of the necessary infrastructure with comparable pressures 
on funds from both public and private sources. 
So far as residential and other mortgage funds are con-
cerned, under present institutional arrangements the principal 
source of credit will continue to be the four major financial in-
stitutions --commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan 

-15-
736 
associations, and life insurance companies--and FNMA-GNMA. 
For the 
year 1968, when private housing starts reached a four-year high of 
1.5 million units, these groups made gross investments in mortgages for 
all types of properties totaling about $62 billion. The increase in 
housing starts postulated, along with associated demands, could require 
gross mortgage funds for all purposes each year of over $100 billion 
from these four lender groups and FNMA-GNMA alone, assuming no change 
in prices and no significant change in the housing mix. And this would 
not include such funds as would also be required from other private 
and public sources. 
Of course, some allowance may be made for greater efficiency 
in the use of mortgage funds, for new as well as existing residential 
construction. 
Examples of changes related to such efficiency are larger 
downpayments, greater assumption of first mortgages (with private place-
ment of seconds) and lower costs per unit of housing. And some allowance 
can be made for (a) 
further increases in equity or bond market financing, 
particularly in the case of multifamily structures and for (b) 
increased 
subsidy allotments from Federal funds even under the assumption of 
relatively tight budgetary constraints. 
New lenders, such as pension 
funds, may also be attracted increasingly into mortgage investments. 
But 
it still appears that ultimate results will continue to depend mainly 
on the ability of depositary institutions to compete for the funds 
necessary to expand their mortgage lending volume. 
The future ability of these mortgage lenders to attract 
more loanable funds through regular depositary channels may be 
limited by the shifting population distribution, which--unlike the 

-15-
737 
early 1960's--will involve most rapid growth for adults under 35 years 
of age. This age group, of course, tends on the average to incur 
debt rather than provide savings. Ability to attract more funds 
will also be limited by the increased saver-sophistication about 
relative yields available on instruments other than savings deposits, 
as events since 1965 have proved. Thus, we are not prepared to say that 
the principal financial institutions as a group will be in a position 
to provide gross mortgage flows at an average in excess of $100 billion 
annually over the years immediately ahead. 
Repayment flows (based on regular amortization or prepayments) 
from growing mortgage portfolios held by lenders will be a growing 
source of funds supporting savings flows. But, as in the past, a very 
large share of mortgage repayment volume will be needed to support 
transactions in the growing stock of existing homes at prices that will 
usually be higher than they were when the mortgages to be replaced were 
originated. Nor can it be assumed that all mortgage repayments will 
necessarily flow back into housing. 
Under these circumstances and given the pressure for as 
rapid an expansion in starts as possible, mortgage interest rates 
required of builders and home buyers will have to remain high 
enough relative to other capital market yields to attract the funds 
required. Elimination of mortgage-interest-rate ceilings--or at 
least a more flexible policy with respect to them--would obviously 
remove this structural barrier to competition for necessary funds 

-15-
738 
and would alleviate the discount burden that currently must be borne 
directly by builders and other home-sellers. 
Moreover, mortgage in-
terest costs, in the final analysis, are a function of not only the 
contract interest rate but also the price of the house, the downpay-
ment, and the loan maturity. 
Thus, any reduction in construction 
and related costs per unit would help not only to spread the avail-
able mortgage credit more widely but also to moderate or reduce the 
burden of interest costs. 
(d) Do you see any other ways to reduce interest rates 
in general and mortgage rates in particular from their pres-
ent high levels to facilitate homebuilding in a noninflation-
ary environment? 
Any lasting progress that can be made toward a noninfla-
tionary environment should serve to promote investor interest in 
debt-instruments as opposed to equity-instruments. 
Also, any steps 
that will help reduce per-unit construction costs and hence limit 
capital requirements will help to lower the general structure of in-
terest rates and particularly of mortgage rates. 
Beyond this, it 
does seem feasible to develop further mortgage market features that 
could narrow the differential required to encourage investment in 
mortgages as against bonds or other types of investments. 
These 
include: 
1. 
Removal of market imperfections that impede the 
allocation of available mortgage funds, including unrealistic 
statutory limits on contract interest rates. 

2. 
Improvement of the mortgage instrument by greater 
standardization of laws on foreclosure, origination costs, and 
other fees. 
3. 
Development of a debt instrument supported by 
mortgages — along the lines authorized by the 1968 Housing A c t -
that would appeal to investors not interested in amortization of 
principal or the handling of many relatively small financing units. 
These and other possibilities are discussed in answers to 
some of the other questions below. 
(e) Do you feel that the interest- and rent-subsidy 
programs provided by the 1968 Housing Act are adequate to 
meet the housing problems of low-income families? 
At the least, these programs would appear to point in a 
fruitful direction. 
However, since they are designed to subsidize 
occupancy—not construction activity--they will tend to add to the 
aggregate of private credit demands. 
Nor will they obviate the 
need for supplementary programs of public housing and other assist-
ance. 
Also, these programs can be of only limited value unless 
they are adequately funded. 
On the rent-subsidy program, it may be questioned whether 
major reliance on nonprofit sponsors will not serve to limit the pote 
tial of the program, as has been typical in other instances in the 
past. 
Moreover, in the case of both this program and the home-
ownership subsidy program, excessive reliance on new as opposed to 
existing units may also have a limiting effect. 

. 740 
-7-
2. A number of structural or institutional reforms have 
already been instituted to improve the mortgage market since 
the 1966 housing crunch. 
What specific additional reforms do 
you recommend to assure that mortgage credit is more readily 
available and at a more reasonable cost than indicated in 
your answers to the preceding questions? 
In a report to the Congress in 1967 on monetary policy and 
the residential mortgage market (copy attached), the Board suggested, 
without necessarily endorsing them at the time, a number of proposals 
that might be considered for improving the mortgage market. 
Among 
the potential reforms mentioned in the Board's 1967 report which have 
yet to be instituted are the following: 
(a) 
flexible secondary-reserve requirements for non-
bank thrift institutions (see p. 738 of the 
Board's report); 
(b) 
federal chartering of mutual savings banks 
(P. 739); 
(c) FNMA trading desk for Government underwritten 
mortgages (p. 739); 
(d) reexamination of geographical and other barriers 
to mortgage investment to make them more nearly 
uniform, or to eliminate them. 
This includes a 
review of the mortgage investment powers and 
origination practices of financial institutions; 
mortgage, usury, foreclosure, and related State 
statutes; and geographical, type-of-structure, 
and non-rate restrictions affecting different 
types of mortgage lenders (p. 740). 
On several occasions, the Board has recommended legisla-
tion to the Congress that would permit member banks of the Federal 
Re serve System to borrow from the Federal Reserve Banks on the 
security of any sound assets--including mortgages—without paying 
the "penalty" rate of interest required whenever technically 

-15-
24 
ineligible paper is presented. 
This legislation would replace pres-
ent provisions of the Federal Reserve Act that permit borrowings 
without a penalty interest rate only on the security of Government 
obligations or of paper meeting certain outmoded "eligibility" re-
quirements. As the Board has noted, amendment of these restrictive 
provisions would facilitate rather than penalize efforts by banks to 
meet the public's changing needs for mortgage as well as other kinds 
of credit. 
3. 
The following suggestions for institutional re-
forms have been made in previous studies of the mortgage 
market. 
Please comment on the merits and weaknesses of 
each, pointing out what adjustments in other policies--
particularly with respect to monetary and fiscal policies--
would be necessary to maintain full employment and price 
stability if any of these suggestions were adopted. 
a. 
Change the lending policies of the 
Federal Home Loan Banks so that sav-
ings and loan associations can borrow 
with greater certainty,at lower cost, 
and/or for a longer time than at 
present. 
The Board's affirmative position along these lines is set 
forth at page 739 of its attached 1967 report. 
b. 
Require financial institutions to 
direct a certain percentage of their 
new loanable funds into mortgages. 
Present policy, in effect, requires nonbank thrift institu-
tions to hold a large share of their total assets in home mortgages 
in order to qualify for preferential tax treatment. 
The suggestion 
outlined above would obviously broaden such policy beyond the home 
mortgage field, but it would also extend the restriction--apparently 

without tax benefit — to other major financial institutions. 
We are 
most dubious about the equity aspects of such a proposal. 
It is difficult to evaluate the effects that the restric-
tion might have in the absence of precise definitions about the 
types of institutions, mortgages, and loanable funds contemplated, 
or the exact percentage of new loanable funds that would have to be 
directed into mortgages by each type of institution involved within 
any particular time period. 
Moreover, it is not clear whether the 
proposed requirement would apply to the proportion of new funds 
flows that would have to be placed in mortgages, or to the institu-
tions' ultimate portfolio of mortgages, which is a function of loan 
repayments and sales as well as loan originations and purchases. 
These problems aside, there remains the question of whether 
the public interest would best be served over the long run by erect-
ing a new structural barrier to the flow of credit within the money 
and capital markets. 
It may be argued that even the mortgage market as 
a whole might not benefit greatly, since lenders not so restricted would 
tend to withdraw from such investment. 
An alternative and more positive 
approach would be to encourage steps to further enhance the competitive 
appeal of mortgage investment within general financial markets in which 
credit could flow as readily as possible toward sectors where effective 
credit demands were the most pressing. 

-15-
743 
c. 
Require the Federal Reserve System to purchase 
securities issued by the Federal Home Loan Banks 
and/or the Federal National Mortgage Association 
at times of tightness in the mortgage market, 
thereby providing these institutions with funds 
to funnel to the mortgage market. 
The Board's response to suggestions along this line were 
incorporated in Chairman Martin's testimony last June before the 
House Committee on Banking and Currency (copy attached). 
As Chairman Martin pointed out in his prepared statement 
(p. 8), "such a directive would violate a fundamental principal of 
sound monetary policy, in that it would attempt to use the credit-
creating powers of the central bank to subsidize programs benefit-
ing special sectors of the economy." 
In concluding, he noted 
(p. 16) that "as time progressed, the effects of the Federal Reserve 
support operation would adversely affect savings flows to aided as 
well as to unaided mortgage lenders. At the same time, the opera-
tion would increase costs of funds to all nonmortgage borrowers. 
over-all 
Ultimately, there would be little or no net increase in the/avail-
ability of residential mortgage credit. 
There would be a substan-
tial substitution of public for private funds. All this would occur 
at the expense of possible disruption to other financial markets if 
not to the formulation and implementation of general monetary policy 
as well." 
d. 
Permit savings and loan associations, mutual 
savings banks, and other mortgage lenders to 
issue long-term securities to raise funds 
for mortgages. 
Both national banks and federal savings and loan associations 

4 
-11-
now have the statutory authority to issue long-term securities, 
whether to raise funds for mortgages or other types of investments, 
under appropriate supervisory safeguards. 
The ability of other 
mortgage lenders to act in this respect, of course, varies with the 
provisions of State laws and regulations. 
We favor the maximum 
possible latitude in this respect, since the mortgage instrument itself is 
not well suited to the needs of many bond market participants. 
e. 
Broaden the investment and lending powers for 
savings and loan associations so that they 
have a greater liquidity reserve to "dip" 
into when needed to sustain their mortgage 
lending. 
The Board suggested in its 1967 report (pages 738-39) that 
this question warranted further study to determine whether such 
broadened powers would in fact enhance the mortgage lending potential 
of nonbank thrift institutions at times when general interest rate 
levels are rising. 
To the extent that genuinely liquid investments 
are acquired when mortgage demands are relatively slack, of course, 
a potential supplement would be provided to currently generated funds 
in times of strong mortgage demand. 
f• 
Bring into early operation the new authority 
provided to the Government National Mortgage 
Association (GNMA) to insure mortgage backed 
bonds issued by institutions seeking to 
raise new funds for mortgages. 
In its 1967 report, the Board suggested (page 740) that en-
couragement be given to 
such sales of participation certificates or 
other instruments against pools of residential mortgages, subject to 
appropriate safeguards. 

- 1 2 -
g. 
Permit FNMA to engage in secondary market 
operations in conventional as well as 
Federally insured mortgages. 
Although FNMA as a Government-sponsored corporation has 
recently shifted from mixed to wholly private ownership, its opera-
tions would be changed significantly if this recommendation were 
adopted. Thus far, FNMA's activities have been confined to dealing 
in mortgages which conform to public policies, as expressed in the 
underwriting of FHA and VA mortgages. 
While further improvements in the secondary mortgage mar-
ket would clearly be in the public interest, important technical as 
well as policy questions arise if FNMA is permitted to deal in con-
ventional mortgages—presumably solely on residential properties. 
Such conventional mortgages, of course, lack the marketability of 
Government underwritten loans based on uniform minimum standards 
relating to safety of principal, collateral, loan terms, and 
origination practices. There is serious risk, therefore, that FNMA 
would gradually accumulate a portfolio which is relatively illiquid 
and which would have to be financed in the money market at interest 
levels at times quite disadvantageous to flows of funds to the depositary 
institutions which are also active mortgage investors. 
4. How has the volume of homebuilding activity been 
affected by 
a. 
changes in the general level of interest 
rates, and/or mortgage rates, and 
b. administration of the FHA-VA ceiling on 
mnrr.yarfi rates? 

-12-
5. The practice of discounting mortgages--!.e.. 
deducting "points" in order to raise the yield--has often 
been found objectionable. What kind of evidence is there as 
to who or what is hurt by these discounts? 
Should dis-
counts be forbidden? 
So far during the 1960's, the volume of homebuilding has 
overwhelmingly reflected the availability of mortgage c r e d i t -
dependent partly on relative interest returns on open market as against 
depositary claims--and the strength and composition of underlying 
demands for housing and related credit, as disposable personal incomes 
have risen sharply further and housing costs have accelerated. 
Home-
building appears to have been affected only to a minor degree by 
changes in the level of interest rates, at least with regard to mortgages 
bearing rates that can follow the market closely. 
Basic demands in the regular market have continued to be 
a significant factor. For example, as overbuilding accumulated be-
tween 1963 and 1965, housing starts tended downward despite the ample 
availability of mortgage credit at stable interest rates. The down-
trend in housing starts accelerated abruptly in 1966 when the avail-
ability of mortgage credit to accommodate transaction demands was 
sharply curtailed. The drop in starts--which far exceeded what a 
normal reduction in vacancy rates would have required--resulted 
primarily from sharply reduced net savings inflows to savings and 
loan associations and mutual savings banks that specialize in 
lending on real estate, as outlined in the Board's 1967 report 
(pages 732-34). 

747 
-14-
During 1968, when underbuilding was a factor, contract in-
tetest on conventional first mortgages secured by homes rose by 70 
basis points--exactly as much as they did through most of 1966,1 and 
from a higher level, according to data compiled by the Federal 
Housing Administration. Yet private housing starts increased in 
1968 by over 210,000 units, in contrast to a decline of more than 
0 
300,000 unit 
8 in 1966, The improved performance of housing starts 
last year in the face of a sharp increase in mortgage interest rates 
appeared to reflect the continued availability of mortgage credit--
albeit at high cost--to meet a strong backlog of basic demand. 
The 
housing starts performance was also aided by greater emphasis on 
• . 
i 
multifamily properties, since these could be financed more flexibly 
than home properties. 
• 
An important way in which interest rates have played a 
restrictive role since early 1966 in the housing market in general has 
been 
related to the large discounts associated from time to time with 
FHA and.VA loans that bear fixed contract interest rates which were not 
adjusted rapidly enough to keep abreast of going market yields. 
In this 
connection, the Board suggested in its 1967 report (page 739) that greater 
i 
flexibility should be provided in setting ceiling rates on these Government 
underwritten loans. This would lessen uncertainty by all market 
participants about the magnitude of expected changes in such 
ceilingjrates, and would avoid substantial discounts which dis-
courage lenders, builders, sellers, and buyers alike from reliance on 
the types of mortgages affected (pages 736-37). Especially hard hit are 
• 
i
i
i 
i 
, 
i 
.
i 

— • 
748 
-15-
lower income famil ies who often depend heavily on mortgages bearing 
high loan-to-price and long maturity terms--typical of FHA and VA 
loans--in order to sell existing homes as well as to buy new ones. 
Discounts, of course, are the standard method by which re-
turns on any type of instrument carrying fixed rates of interest are 
adjusted to currently prevailing yields in financial markets gener-
ally. 
The process is essential to effective clearing of markets, 
since it encourages lenders to allocate their resources toward 
sectors of the economy where credit demands are strongest. 
But 
when contract rates on mortgages can be negotiated freely--as on 
new conventional loans--they respond much more flexibly to general 
changes in interest rate levels, provided usury ceilings are not 
restrictive. 
Hence the magnitude of discounts, if any, tends to be 
fairly small and does not constitute an important impediment to pro-
perty buyers, sellers, builders, and lenders. 
To forbid discounts on either conventional or Federally 
underwritten residential mortgages would seriously disrupt normal 
market processes and inhibit credit flows to the types of loans 
affected in the national market as a whole. 
This was the reason 
why Congress has twice (in 1954 and 1958) abandoned unsuccessful 
efforts to control discounts on FHA and VA loans. 
The preferable 
and much more successful alternative, of course, is to allow con-
tract interest rates on mortgages to follow the market closely, 
thereby minimizing the magnitude of the discounts that are likely 
to develop when market conditions are in the process of tightening. 
At tachments 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 S I 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
Item No. 3 
2/26/69 
February 28, 1969. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D . C. 
20510 
Dear M r . Chairman: 
In accordance with the practice followed for the 
past several years, there are enclosed copies of the report 
made by the firm of public accountants that audited the ac-
counts of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System for the year ended December 31, 1968. 
These include 
(1) Financial Statements and Report Thereon and (2) Report 
on Scope of Examination of Financial Statements. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
W m . McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosures 2 
