FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
I., 
it-
Minutes for 
February 24, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

:>m 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, February 24, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Messrs. Hackley, Molony, and Cardon, Assistants 
to the Board 
Messrs. Coyne and Nichols, Special Assistants 
to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Messrs. Shay and Sanders, Assistant General 
Counse1 
Messrs. Axilrod and Gramley, Associate Directors, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Keir and Shull, Associate Advisers, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Hersey and Norwood, Advisers, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Dahl, Egertson, and Lyon, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Noble, and Mertz of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Lawrence and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 

582 
2/24/70 
-2-
Mr. Massey of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Messrs. Burton, Kline, and Poundstone of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on February 19, 
and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on February 23, 1970, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
Margin requirements. 
There was general agreement with a sugges-
tion by Chairman Burns that margin requirements be docketed in routine 
fashion for consideration monthly. 
It was understood that a staff memo-
randum on stock market developments would ordinarily be distributed in 
advance of the agenda listing. 
CEMLA lectures. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to the 
Center for Latin American Monetary Studies, Mexico City, designating 
John Kalchbrenner, Economist in the Division of Research and Statistics, 
to lecture during CEMLA's Eighteenth Technical Training Program. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
First National City applications. Memoranda dated February 17 
and 19, 1970, contained the recommendations of the Division of Supervi-
sion and Regulation regarding the following applications: 

oSZ 
2/24/70 
-3-
(1) By First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, 
New York, for permission to purchase 50 per cent of the shares 
of Midland Bank-First National City Factors Ltd., a company to 
be formed in the United Kingdom; 
(2) By First National City Bank, New York, New York, for permission 
to purchase 50 per cent of the shares of Banco de Valladolid, 
Valladolid, Spain; and 
(3) By First National City Overseas Investment Corporation for per-
mission to make the following investments in organizations in 
Santiago, Chile: 
50 per cent of the shares of Nacional Finan-
ciera S.A., and Promotora General S.A., two commercial finance 
companies to be established; and 49 per cent of each of two 
nominally-capitalized related companies to be established. 
With respect to each of the proposed investments, applicant 
requested suspension of the standard conditions imposed by the Board 
in cases where effective control is exercised. With respect to the 
third application listed it was requested, in the event the over-all 
suspension was denied, that the requirement of prior Board approval 
for the issuance of debentures with maturities in excess of one year 
be suspended. 
The Division recommended approval of each of the proposed invest-
ments, suspension of the standard conditions for 12 months with respect 
to the investment in Midland Bank-First National City Factors, and 
denial of the remaining requests. 
In response to an inquiry regarding progress on a study the 
Board had requested the staff to make concerning the standard conditions 
and related matters, it was indicated that the study was expected to 
be available to the Board within the next few weeks. 
* 

oSZ 
2/24/70 
-4-
Discussion developed agreement with a suggestion that the sus-
pension of standard conditions with respect to the investment in Midland 
Bank-First National City Factors be limited to 6 months rather than a 
year, and with that change the application was approved. A copy of the 
letter sent to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The remaining applications were approved unanimously in the terms 
recommended by the staff. Copies of the letters sent to the respective 
applicants are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
It was understood that the staff would endeavor to expedite the 
aforementioned study of regulatory provisions with a view to Board 
consideration within about one month. 
Union Commerce Bank. 
In a memorandum dated February 4, 1970, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of appli-
cations of The Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, to establish branches 
in Warrensville Heights and Middleburg Heights. 
The Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland had "reluctantly" recommended approval. 
In May 1969, 31 per cent of the stock of the bank had been 
acquired by the "Parsons group." Banks in the Parsons group, being the 
recipients of managerial advice from COMAC Company, were all operated 
in essentially the same way. These banks generally lacked liquidity, 
operated with inadequate capital, invested heavily in lower-rated long-
term municipals, and lent to related interests of the group. The three 

2/24/70 
-5-
Federal bank supervisory agencies had combined in an effort to impose 
guidelines for sound operation, but had not been able to obtain agree-
ment by COMAC Company. 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had 
recently commenced proceedings against one of the banks in the group 
for termination of deposit insurance, and the Board's staff was at 
present considering whether to recommend to the Board cease and desist 
or termination of membership proceedings against another bank. 
Union Commerce Bank had been given a satisfactory rating after 
its most recent examination, in October 1969. However, a tendency 
toward the portfolio practices followed by Parsons group banks had been 
noted, and the Division believed it was virtually certain that the bank's 
condition would deteriorate. 
Discussion included comments on practices engaged in by Parsons 
group banks generally and the question whether, in the absence of more 
positive and current indications of emerging problems at the applicant 
bank, denial of the applications would be justifiable, particularly in 
view of the Reserve Bank recommendation. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the 
Reserve Bank should be requested to make a current investigation of the 
bank's condition, with special reference to areas in which acute problems 
had arisen at other Parsons group banks. Accordingly, consideration of 
the branch applications was deferred. 

oSZ 
2/24/70 
-6-
Charter New York and Bankers Trust. A memorandum dated February 11, 
1970, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation and other pertinent 
materials had been distributed regarding the following applications, 
approval of which was recommended by the Division and by the Banking 
Markets Section: 
(1) Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire all 
of the outstanding voting shares of Central Trust Company Rochester, 
N. Y., Rochester, New York; 
(2) Bankers Trust New York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire 
all of the shares of Bankers Trust Company of Rochester, Rochester, 
New York, a proposed new bank; 
(3) Bankers Trust Company of Rochester to acquire four offices of 
Central Trust Company and to assume the deposit liabilities of 
$38 million; and 
(4) Bankers Trust Company of Rochester for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
The applications had been filed as a result of the Board's 
denial, in 1968, of an application by Charter New York Corporation to 
acquire Central Trust Company. 
They represented an attempt to restruc-
tj^ 
; .>1 
/ > Li .; t.: i 
Low, r'u? k> . . . 
' 
6rc. 
ture the original proposal in such a way as to overcome the finding of 
adverse effect on competition that led to denial of the earlier appli-
cation. 
The principal question at issue was whether the pro-competitive 
effects of introducing a fifth major competitor into the Rochester bank-
ing market outweighed the elimination of Central Trust Company as a 
potential competitor of the applicant holding companies. 
The Rochester 
market would benefit from increased competition and some immediate 

2/24/70 
-7-
deconcentration by the entry of Bankers Trust as a new competitor. 
On 
the other hand, Charter New York was among the most likely de novo 
entrants into Rochester, and Central Trust Company had the capability 
of joining with other independent up-State banks in a regional holding 
company system. 
After staff presentations, all members of the Board except 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer expressed positions favorable to the 
applications. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the stand taken by the Department 
of Justice in its report that the amended proposal would not appear to 
eliminate the serious competitive considerations that had caused the 
Board to reject the original application. 
He also gave weight to the 
fact that now, as in 1968, Central Trust Company could provide an anchor 
for a separate holding company. 
He believed that to allow the bank to 
be split and acquired by two large holding companies would run counter 
to the philosophy embodied in positions the Board had taken in several 
previous cases. 
Governor Robertson referred to the statutory requirement that 
if competitive considerations are adverse, approval may be granted only 
if they are outweighed by benefits to convenience and needs or other 
factors. 
In his judgment, there was no such offset here. 
Central 
Trust Company was a large independent bank, more consumer oriented, in 
his opinion, than the lead banks of the holding companies involved. 

oSZ 
2/24/70 
-8-
Adequate banking services were available in Rochester and, while there 
was room for additional competition, he did not believe it should be 
provided at the expense of denying the public a choice among different 
types of banking facilities. 
There followed discussion of timing problems reportedly faced 
by the applicants because of certain requirements imposed by the New 
York State banking authorities and the necessity to submit certain 
questions to stockholders. 
In response to a suggestion that the Board's 
orders might be issued in advance of the supporting statements, it was 
noted that the Board's reasoning would then not be immediately available 
to the Department of Justice, which had only 30 days from the issuance 
of an order to decide whether to institute antitrust proceedings. 
It 
was observed that publication requirements with respect to one element 
of the proposals would not be fulfilled until March 2, and there was 
general agreement that the staff should endeavor to prepare the necessary 
documents in time for the Board to consider them on March 3. 
The holding company and related applications were then approved, 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. 
Multiple maturity time deposits and "premium golden passbook" 
accounts. 
Governor Robertson had been participating in consideration 
by the interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation of questions 
relating to the maximum rates of interest payable by banks on multiple 
maturity time deposits and the status of "premium golden passbook" 
accounts such as offered by First National City Bank of New York. 

oSZ 
2/24/70 
-9-
In preparation for another meeting of the Committee later today, 
the Legal Division had presented in a memorandum dated February 19 the 
arguments for and against a change by the Board in the maximum rates 
member banks may pay on multiple maturity time deposits payable at inter-
vals of at least (a) one year and (b) two years to parallel the rates 
authorized last month for single maturity deposits of like term. 
The 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation favored such a change in the rate 
structure. 
With respect to "premium golden passbook" accounts, the Legal 
Division recommended that the Board ask the Comptroller of the Currency 
to inform First National City Bank that a deposit made pursuant to its 
contract with respect to such an account is a multiple maturity time 
deposit. 
No Board action was expected today on multiple maturity time 
deposits, the intent being to obtain views of the members prior to this 
afternoon's Coordinating Committee meeting. 
Discussion failed to develop a clear consensus. While there was 
a disposition to accommodate the principle of automatic renewal via the 
proposed maximum rate increase, views in this regard did not appear to 
be held strongly. More interest was expressed in having all agencies 
adopt uniform rules with respect to withdrawals prior to maturity, one 
Possibility being the substitution of provisions along the lines of those 
prescribed by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board in lieu of the hardship 

oSZ 
2/24/70 
-10-
provision contained in Regulation Q, particularly if the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation could be persuaded to amend its rules accordingly 
and uniformity could thus be achieved. 
Governor Brimmer preferred to 
retain the Board's present rule and abandon it only if the other agencies 
would not adopt a similar rule. Governor Sherrill pointed out that 
another change in maximum rates at this time might create confusion in 
view of the changes adopted only recently; also, a delay might encourage 
a move toward uniformity on prepayment provisions. 
Discussion of the "premium golden passbook" account question 
indicated acceptance of the staff recommendation. 
Bank subordinated notes. 
On January 30, 1970, the Board discussed 
problems inherent in a recently-arisen practice of some banks to issue 
short-term subordinated notes in small denominations. 
The discussion 
was exploratory, the question whether regulatory action was needed having 
been deferred pending the outcome of current discussions 
of the subject 
by the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
Governor Robertson had now provided the Board with a report dated 
February 19, 1970, by an interagency staff group assigned by the Commit-
tee to study the question. 
In essence, the group's conclusions were 
that a policy statement with respect to advertising of such notes (especi-
ally to make clear that they were not deposits and were not insured) 
would not effectively meet the problem; that subordinated notes could 
useful as a capital instrument, but to serve that function adequately 
they should have a minimum maturity appreciably longer than the two-year 

oSZ 
2/24/70 
-11-
term implicit in present regulations; and that selling short or medium-
term notes in small denominations and through the same sales techniques 
used for small-denomination certificates of deposit was a flagrant 
attempt to circumvent rate-ceiling regulations on deposits that should 
be discouraged by subjecting all but legitmate capital notes to the 
interest rate ceilings applicable to deposits. Attached to the report 
was a draft of amendment to Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, 
that would in effect define as deposits any such notes with a maturity 
of less than 7 years, with an exception for any notes the issuance of 
which was considered necessary by appropriate bank supervisory author-
ities in exigent circumstances. 
Governor Robertson noted that the matter was docketed today in 
order to obtain the views of members of the Board prior to the meeting 
of the Coordinating Committee this afternoon. 
His own view was favorable 
to the proposed amendment, although perhaps with a maturity cut-off of 
5 years instead of 7. He believed it would be desirable in due course 
to take actions that would place all nondeposit sources of funds to 
which banks had resorted in recent years on roughly a comparable regu-
latory footing. 
He described problems the Comptroller of the Currency 
was experiencing that pointed to the need for action on the sale of 
short-term subordinated notes before the practice became widespread. 
Discussion disclosed divided views. 
Governor Mitchell, who 
Was opposed to regulatory action, thought the practice would be self-
limiting, in part due to statutory restrictions on borrowing. 
Also, 

oSZ 
2/24/70 
-12-
if interest rates subsided to the point where banks could again sell 
CD's, issuance of the notes would probably die down quickly. He believed 
that any needed discipline could be exerted through a statement of policy 
on advertising, and that the proposed action would represent an unneces-
sary proliferation of regulations. Moreover, he thought undue emphasis 
was being given to preserving relationships between banks and savings 
and loan associations. He saw no reason why banks should not be allowed 
to offer the notes so long as the buyer understood and was willing to 
accept their disadvantages. 
Governor Daane also believed that the practice would be self-
limiting, and he disliked any regulation that was not clearly necessary. 
However, the disadvantages of the instrument should be made clear to 
the buyer. 
He would advocate a strong effort to persuade the other super-
visory agencies that the proposed action was unnecessary and proceed 
only if they could not be persuaded. 
Governor Maisel was averse to issuing new regulations at this 
Point. He agreed with the view that statutory restrictions on bank 
borrowing should be a considerable deterrent. 
If an effort to persuade 
the other agencies that no regulatory action was necessary failed, he 
would try to reach agreement on some compromise. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the proposed amendment 
should be adopted promptly. 
Such action would strengthen the hand of 
the Comptroller of the Currency and support the Federal Home Loan Bank 

535 
2/24/70 
-13-
Board, which was concerned about a drain of funds from the savings and 
loan associations. 
It was also an opportunity to tidy up an image of 
banking that was becoming disturbing. 
Governor Sherrill believed that market limitations would keep 
the practice from growing to significant proportions. 
However, the other 
agencies evidently believed that the problem was important and presented 
a large area of possible abuse, and he would give considerable weight 
to their views. 
Chairman Burns stated that he would prefer not to express a view 
at this time because he found the question difficult and would like to 
study it further. 
Federal Advisory Council. 
In a memorandum dated February 18, 
1970, the Office of the Secretary recommended, for reasons stated, that 
the Board of Directors of each Federal Reserve Bank be authorized to pay 
not to exceed $1,000 (rather than $450) annually toward the expenses of 
the secretariat of the Federal Advisory Council. A draft of telegram 
was attached. 
The increased payments had been proposed by the Council 
at its recent meeting. 
After discussion of the uses to which such funds apparently were 
Put, during which it was noted that there had been no increase since 1954, 
the telegram was approved unanimously; a copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
Commercial paper. 
On October 29, 1969, the Board announced its 
determination that obligations issued by subsidiaries of member banks 

535 
2/24/70 
-14-
are, under the present provisions of both Regulation D (Reserves of 
Member Banks) and Regulation Q (Payment of Interest on Deposits) in the 
same status as obligations issued directly by the bank. 
By subsequent 
actions the Board extended until February 26, 1970, the time for adjust-
ment. Also on October 29, 1969, the Board decided to publish for comment 
a proposal to apply Regulation Q to funds received by member banks from 
the proceeds of commercial paper issued by their affiliates, and on 
January 20, 1970, comments were invited on a proposal to apply a 10 per 
cent reserve requirement to such paper. A number of memoranda had been 
prepared to assist the Board in considering these matters, including the 
following, copies of which have been placed in the Board's files: 
Memorandum dated February 18 from the Legal Division transmitting 
comments received on the Regulation D proposal; 
Memorandum dated February 19 from the Legal Division suggesting 
alternative courses of action under Regulations D and Q; 
Memorandum dated February 19 from the Legal Division commenting 
on two possible modifications of the October 29 determination; 
Memorandum dated February 20 from the Legal Division regarding 
questions raised concerning the issuance of commercial paper by 
a registered bank holding company or its nonbank subsidiaries; 
Memorandum dated February 20 from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation discussing supervisory aspects of the issuance of commer-
cial paper by subsidiaries and affiliates of banks; and 
1 •• u • . , • . i 
Memorandum dated February 20 from the Division of Research and 
Statistics commenting on the economic issues involved. 
Governor Robertson, who had been firmly on the side of regulating 
the issuance of commercial paper by bank affiliates, now recommended 

535 
2/24/70 
-15-
postponement of action for perhaps two to four months. 
It was still 
his view that all "deposits" should be treated essentially alike from 
the regulatory standpoint, regardless of the instrument used in acquir-
ing th em. However, he did not believe it would be possible to arrive 
at any conclusion by February 26. Also, it seemed to him that this 
might be an inappropriate time to take any action on the over-all ques-
tion, because such an action could have some tightening effect, at least 
in its psychological impact. With some delay it was possible that interest 
rates might decline sufficiently that banks would not be under as much 
pressure to resort to nondeposit sources of funds. Meanwhile the members 
of the Board could consider carefully the question of the role of banks 
in various types of markets, along with the several secondary questions 
to which the staff had called attention in relation to the primary 
question of whether or not the Board should impose reserve requirements 
and/or interest rate ceilings on bank-related commercial paper. 
4 
Ensuing comments included a suggestion by Chairman Burns that a 
solut ion might lie in simultaneous actions to reduce the reserve require-
ment on time deposits above $5 million at any one bank from 6 per cent 
to 5 per cent and to impose a reserve requirement of perhaps 7 per cent 
commercial paper acquired through bank affiliates. 
Other members 
indicated that they would not be prepared to act on such a proposal with-
out the benefit of further thought and analysis, and the prevailing view 
therefore favored announcement of a postponement. With respect to the 

596 
2/24/70 
-Im-
possibility of dropping the Regulation Q proposal, it was the consensus 
that no announcement to such effect need be issued at this time. 
Members of the Board were then furnished copies of a draft 
statement prepared by the staff for use in announcing a deferral of 
action, and discussion developed agreement on several editorial changes. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the issuance of a statement 
in the form attached as Item No. 6 was approved unanimously, and the 
staff was requested to develop further material with regard to various 
aspects of the bank -related commercial paper problem. 
The view was 
expressed by the Chairman that a prolonged period of inaction would 
reflect unfavorably on the Board and that decisions should be reached 
and announced in the relatively near future. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
item No. l 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 
20551 
2/24/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
H O A R D 
February 26, 
1970 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Javier Marquez, Director, 
Centro de Estudios Monetarios Latinoamericanos, 
Durango 54, 
Mexico 7, D.F. 
Dear Mr. Marquez: 
This letter is i.n reply to yours of February 2, 1970, 
inviting the Board of Governors to designate someone to give 
five lectures on "Current Monetary Problems in the United States" 
a s Part of CEMLA's Eighteenth Technical Training Program on 
Central Banking and Monetary Policy. 
I am happy to inform you that the Board has designated 
Mr. John Kalchbrenner, Economist, Special Studies Section, Divi-
sion of Research and Statistics, for this assignment. We under-
stand that the five lectures will be scheduled during the period 
J uly 26 to August 8. 
The Board of Governors is pleased to continue its 
cooperation with the Center for Latin American Monetary Studies 
I n this way. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

f
p 
Sr^:-' 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F t h e : 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
2/24/70 
A D D R E S S 
O FTI C I AL_ 
C O H R t S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 24, 1970. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 2, 1969, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold 50 per cent of the common shares of Midland Bank-First 
National City Factors Ltd. ("Midland-First"), a company to be formed 
l n the United Kingdom, at a cost of approximately $1,200,000, provided 
an investment of approximately $600,000 is made within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of Midland-First if Midland-First 
at any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if Midland-First establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in the United Kingdom, or elsewhere, in 
any manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to FNCOICj 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Midland-First as it may require from 
time to time; and 

599 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Midland-First be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Midland-First 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to review six months after acquisition of these 
shares, the Board suspends the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the 
immediately preceding paragraph of this letter with the understanding 
that at that time FNCOIC will advise the Board of any changes in the 
control of Midland-First. 
The Board has noted that as of January 31, 1970, the foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, First National City Bank 
and its other subsidiaries, exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. 
The foregoing 
consent is given with the understanding that those foreign loans and 
inves tmcnts will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent 
with the guidelines; that any investment required will be made within 
those guidelines; and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

|IggP5^.* 
^LRES^T'" 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
2/24/70 
A D D K C ' . S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 24, 1970 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 19, 1969, the 
Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for First National City 
Bank ("FNCB"), New York, New York, to purchase and hold 200,000 
shares (50 per cent) of the outstanding shares of Banco de Valladolid 
("Banco"), Valladolid, Spain, at a cost of approximately $6,143,000, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board!s consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
the subsidiary by FNCB is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as prac-
ticable if Banco shall in any manner engage in any 
activity or take any action whatsoever that would not 
be permissible if Banco were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act not 
"engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCB 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Banco as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisition or disposition by Banco 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. 
in the same manner as if Banco were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

691 
First National City Bank 
-2-
(4) That FNCB shall not carry on its books the shares of 
Banco at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of Banco, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
In reference to your request for suspension of the pro-
visions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately preceding paragraph 
of this letter, the Board does not believe that the requested sus-
pension is warranted on the basis of the information furnished in 
your letter. 
Such information does not, in the Board's judgment, 
negate the existence of effective control. 
However, subject to 
continuing observation and review, the Board suspends until further 
notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) so far as they relate to 
restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation K. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of the subsidiary. 
The Board has noted that as of January 31, 1970, the com-
bined foreign loans and investments of First National City Bank and 
its subsidiaries exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. 
The foregoing consent 
is given with the understanding that those foreign loans and invest-
ments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with 
the guidelines, that the investment now being approved will be made 
Within those guidelines; and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

If (If 
BOARD OF 
G D V E R N • RS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
2/24/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 24, 1970 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New Yorkc 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of August 25 and October 3, 
1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
("FNCOIC") to purchase and hold 50 per cent of the shares of Nacional 
Financiera S 0A. ("FINANSA"), Santiago, Chile, and Promotora General 
S.A. ("PROGRESSA"), Santiago, Chile, at a cost of approximately 
vl25,000 for the shares of each company, provided that an investment 
°f approximately $50,000 in each company is made within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board also grants consent for FNCOIC to purchase and 
hold 49 per cent of the shares of two nominally capitalized related 
companies to be established in Santiago, at a cost of approximately 
" , 0 0 0 for each company, provided such shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The above consents for the purchase and holding of shares 
the four companies are granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of the companies if the companies 
at any time fail to restrict their activities to 
those permissible to a corporation in which a corpora-
tion organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board of 
Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if the companies 
establish any branches or agencies or take any action 
or undertake any operations in Chile, or elsewhere, 
in any manner, which at the time would not be permis-
sible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of the companies as it may require 
from time to time; and 

603 
First; National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by the 
companies be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if the companies 
were corporations organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
In reference to your requests for suspension of the pro-
visions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately preceding paragraph 
of this letter, the Board does not believe that the requested sus-
pensions are warranted on the basis of the information furnished 
in your letters. Such information does not, in the Board's judgment 
negate the existence of effective control. 
In addition, the Board 
does not believe that compliance with the provisions of Section 211.4 
of Regulation K will unduly hinder your operations. 
However, subject 
to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends until further 
notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately preceding 
paragraph so far as they relate to restrictions on loans granted by 
the companies in Chile in t he currency of that country. 
When the proposed acquisitions are made, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of the companies. 
The Board has noted that as of January 31, 1970, the 
foreign loans and investments of First National City Bank and its 
subsidiaries exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the 
foreign, credit restraint effort now in effect. 
The foregoing con-
sent is given with the understanding that those foreign loans and 
investments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent 
with the guidelines; that the investment now being approved will be 
made within those guidelines; and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
Item No, 
2/24/70 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVF SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
February 24, 19 70 
To Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks 
Subject to such action as may be. taken by the directors 
of your Bank, the Board authorizes your Bank, until further notice, 
to pay not to exceed $1,000 annually toward the expenses of the 
Secretary's Office of the Federal Advisory Council. 
This authori-
zation replaces that referred to in the Board's letter of 
February 19, 1954, S-1524; FRLS 9075.10. 
It will be appreciated 
if you will inform the Board of any action taken by your Bank 
"nder the authorization contained in this telegram. 
(signed) 
Kenyon 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
Item No. 6 
2/24/70 
For immediate release 
February 24, 1970 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today that it was deferring action on outstanding proposals to apply 
interest rate ceilings, reserve requirements, or both, to funds obtained 
by banks through issuance of commercial paper by their affiliates. 
These 
Proposals were first published for public conment on October 29, 1969, 
and January 20, 1970. After reviewing both the comments received and 
the current business and financial situation, the Board decided to defer 
action on these proposals at this time in order to avoid additional 
stringency in money and credit conditions. 
In keeping with this decision, the Board also agreed to extend 
(i) the suspension on the limitations on the rate of interest that may 
ke specified in commercial paper with a maturity of 30 days or more 
issued by a subsidiary of a member bank, to the extent that the total 
amount of such obligations does not exceed the total amount of the 
subsidiary's commercial paper outstanding on October 29, and (2) the 
Permission granted Reserve Banks to waive penalties in connection with 
the application of reserve requirements to such obligations. 
The 
^applicability of such regulations to bank subsidiaries was specifically 
affirmed by the Board on October 29, 1969. 
-0-
