Minutes for 
June 28, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

<r> 183 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, June 28, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Axilrod, Williams, Baker, Beck, Burns, 
Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and Kichline of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Katz, Wood, 
Bradshaw, Gekker, and Karcz of the Division 
of International Finance 
Money market review. Today's review included reports by Mr. 
Kelty on the Government securities market, by M r . Beck on bank credit 
developments, and by Mr. Bradshaw on the gold and foreign exchange 
markets. 
Copies of the several charts and tables distributed for the 
purpose of today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 
JL/ Withdrew from meeting and reentered at points indicated in 
minutes. 

6/28/68 
-2-
At the conclusion of the review Governor Daane withdrew from 
the meeting. Members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, 
Solomon, Sammons, and Reynolds also withdrew, as did Miss Eaton, and 
the following entered: 
Messrs. Hexter, Shay, and Porter of the Legal Division 
Mr. Shull of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sanford of the Division of Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas on June 27, 1968, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the members of the Board. Copies are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letters to Continental International Finance 
1 and 2 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, and Crocker-
Citizens International Corporation, San 
Francisco, California, consenting to the 
acquisition of additional shares of House 
of Investments, Inc., Makati, Philippines. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
3 
approving a revised employee salary structure 
for the head office and branches. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Trade Bank Safe Deposit 

2 4 8 5 
6/28/68 
-3-
Company, New York, New York, into Trade Bank and Trust Company, New 
York, New York, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion stating that consummation 
of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of Laidlaw & Company, 
New York, New York, by Hambro American Bank & Trust Company, New York, 
New York, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion stating that the proposal 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Pacific Industrial 
National Bank of South El Monte, South El Monte, California, by the 
City National Bank, Beverly Hills, California, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
stating that the proposed transaction would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum dated June 27, 1968, 
from Mr. Broida there were submitted drafts of policy record entries 
covering the meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee held on 
April 19 and April 30, 1968. The draft entry for April 30 took account 
of comments received from Committee members and staff following dis-
tribution of a preliminary draft; no suggestion had been received for 

6/28/68 
-4-
revision of the preliminary draft entry for April 19. The entries were 
now presented for approval by the Board. 
After discussion, the entries were approved unanimously. 
It 
was understood that they would be distributed to the Reserve Bank 
Presidents, primarily for information but with an indication of the 
date by which any further comments should be received. 
It was contem-
plated that the April 19 entry would be released to the press about 
July 18 and the April 30 entry about July 29, 1968, following final 
review by the Board. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Sterling balances credit package. At the request of Chairman 
Martin, there was distributed a draft of a paper entitled "Proposal 
for U.S. Participation in Sterling Balances Credit Package" dated 
June 27, 1968, and reading as follows: 
It is proposed that the Treasury, through the ESF, 
participate as principal in the arrangement with the BIS. 
That is, the Treasury would undertake a commitment to make 
3-month renewable dollar/sterling swaps with the BIS for 
the U.S. share (approximately $600 million). As outlined 
in the BIS plan, such swaps could be drawn upon by the 
BIS--to finance draw-downs of sterling balances — during a 
three-year period and, after a two-year grace period, 
would be repayable during a five-year period ending 10 
years after the initiation of the scheme. 
When and to the extent that the swap was drawn upon 
by the BIS, the dollars would be made available by the ESF. 
If the resources of the ESF are insufficient to meet these 
and other commitments, the Federal Reserve would be pre-
pared to warehouse for the ESF necessary portions of the 
sterling it acquires as a result of the swap with the BIS. 

2487 
6/28/68 
-5-
In view of the principle that the Federal Reserve 
should confine its foreign operations to short-term 
maturities, the Treasury will provide assurance to the 
Federal Reserve of its readiness to take back the ware-
housed sterling within a reasonably short period. 
In 
any event, the Treasury will stand ready, one year after 
each drawing is warehoused, to reacquire it on three 
months notice from the Federal Reserve. 
Chairman Martin stated that at a meeting yesterday at the 
Treasury he had made the point that if the Federal Reserve were to 
participate there would have to be united support for the plan within 
the Government. 
There would have to be no question but that the pro-
posal had been agreed to by everyone concerned. He understood that 
the plan for U.S. participation in a sterling balances credit package 
was to be presented to the President today or Monday. 
If the President 
approved, steps would have to be taken to obtain an authorization from 
the Federal Open Market Committee to permit Federal Reserve participa-
tion since the Treasury did not have sufficient resources in the 
Exchange Stabilization Fund to meet this and other commitments, and it 
could not obtain funds through other channels at this stage to augment 
the Stabilization Fund. 
At the Chairman's request, Mr. Solomon reviewed the resources 
of the Exchange Stabilization Fund, present and prospective, following 
which, at Governor Brimmer's request, he reviewed the nature of the 
Proposed overall sterling balances credit package, including the steps 
that would be followed in drawing upon it. 
Governor Daane returned to the room at this point. 

2488 
6/28/68 
-6-
Governor Robertson noted that the Open Market Committee would 
have to increase its authorization to acquire warehoused sterling from 
$350 million to roughly $950 million. He went on to say that, cutting 
through the series of contemplated transactions, one might charge that 
this was simply a device to place Federal Reserve funds at the disposal 
of the Treasury to carry out a worthy purpose. The Federal Reserve 
would be in a better position, he thought, if it acquired the sterling 
subject to an understanding that the Treasury would take out the 
Federal Reserve at any time on demand. 
The Chairman then turned to Mr. Hackley, who pointed out that 
the Federal Reserve Banks, under direction of the Open Market Committee, 
have authority to buy foreign currencies in the open market. When the 
foreign currency program was initiated, it was concluded that the 
Stabilization Fund was a part of the open market, and purchases of 
sterling from the Stablization Fund had been made on that basis. 
On 
the face of it, therefore, the proposed transactions would amount to 
open market purchases of sterling, even though from the Stabilization 
Fund, and there was no statutory limitation on the length of time the 
Federal Reserve could hold the sterling. However, he had reservations, 
Perhaps more on policy grounds than on strictly legal grounds. 
Regard-
less of the fact that purchases of sterling under the proposed arrange-
m e n t might be called purchases in the open market from the Stabiliza-
tion Fund, they would amount to lending, through the Treasury, to a 

6/28/68 
- 7 -
foreign central bank. 
He had been concerned since 1962 that what was 
denominated as an open market operation could in effect represent a 
disguised extension of credit for a long period of time to a foreign 
central bank. 
The proposed arrangement might be so regarded, partic-
ularly if there was no specific limit on the time for which the Federal 
Reserve would be required to hold the sterling. 
It would be helpful 
if the Treasury did agree to a proposition, such as contained in the 
last paragraph of the draft proposal, whereby it would stand ready one 
year after each drawing was warehoused to reacquire the sterling on 
three-month notice. 
He also had some reservations about the plan on 
the ground that it might be regarded as indirect financing of the U.S. 
Treasury by the Federal Reserve. Nevertheless, as a strictly legal 
matter, he felt that the plan could be supported. 
After some discussion of possible alternatives, during which 
members of the Board expressed the view that it would be less desirable 
for the Federal Reserve than the Treasury to assume the role of prin-
cipal, Governor Robertson said he could fully understand that the 
Treasury would want to participate, on behalf of the U.S., in an 
undertaking so important to the whole international financial commu-
nity, and that the Federal Reserve would want to assist the Treasury. 
In his view, however, transactions of this kind should be carried on 
government-to-government, and not by the central bank. 
He asked 
whether there had been full exploration of possibilities whereby the 
Federal Reserve would be taken out at the earliest possible time. 
If 

2490 
6/28/68 
-8-
there were some assurance, for example, that the Treasury would approach 
the Congress as soon as feasible to obtain funds with which to augment 
the Stabilization Fund, he would not be so concerned. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the terms of the credit pack-
age would be such that a new Administration could decide to withdraw 
U.S. participation, and Mr. Solomon replied that it was his impression 
that the participants would be expected to commit themselves for 10 
years. Chairman Martin also said that he thought there was expected 
to be a clear commitment, with little or no provision for opting out. 
Chairman Martin then observed that Governor Robertson would 
be attending the BIS meeting at Basle next week at which the proposed 
credit would be discussed and that it might be necessary to act fairly 
quickly if the other countries were prepared to move forward. 
Gover-
nor Robertson would have to be in a position to know whether the 
Federal Reserve was willing to go ahead. If the President approved 
the proposal today or tomorrow, contact should be made with members 
of the Open Market Committee to obtain some consensus on what Governor 
Robertson would be able to say at Basle. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he was satisfied that the Treasury 
had to act as principal and assume the long-term commitment. 
This also 
implied a commitment by the Federal Reserve, but he felt that the 
Federal Reserve should press for the right to be taken out within a 
period of less than one year. He was hopeful that the Treasury would 
agree. 

2491 
6/28/68 
-9-
Governor Daane said that in discussions the position had been 
taken that it was important for the Federal Reserve to have a take-out 
from the Treasury and that the central bank should not enter into an 
agreement that would amount to signing up for a 10-year loan. 
There followed further discussion as to the possibility of 
cutting down the total period of 15 months envisaged in the last 
paragraph of the draft proposal, and Mr. Reynolds pointed out that 
it was hard for the Treasury to say when it could obtain the necessary 
funds. 
It would have to get them either through consent of the Con-
gress or as a result of activation of the special drawing rights 
mechanism. 
It would be difficult to ask the Treasury to draw on the 
International Monetary Fund for the purpose of repaying the Federal 
Reserve. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the Treasury should realize 
the magnitude of the claims to which it might be subjected by reason 
of U.S. participation in the credit package, and it should put itself 
in a position to meet such claims. The Federal Reserve apparently 
would have to serve as a backstop, but he doubted whether the Treasury 
should have as long as 15 months before it had to make arrangements to 
relieve the central bank. 
Governor Robertson suggested that it would be desirable if the 
language of the proposal could be worded in such a way as simply to 
agree to assist the Treasury to the extent necessary for the period 

6/28/68 
-10-
inimediately ahead, thus providing the Treasury time to work out other 
means of financing. He recognized that it might not be possible to 
negotiate such an agreement with the Treasury. 
After additional d iscussion Governor Daane said it appeared 
that the Board members present were in agreement that the Federal 
Reserve should accept the idea of short-term warehousing of sterling 
to the extent the Treasury's situation made that necessary. 
The main 
issue seemed to be how long the Federal Reserve should agree to retain 
warehoused sterling. He would like to see the period as short as 
possible. However, the discussions thus far had not indicated that the 
Treasury would be prepared to accept less than the draft proposal. 
Governor Robertson noted that it was clear that the Treasury 
would need backstopping for a year, perhaps 15 months, after the date 
of the agreement. Thereafter, it would seem that a total period of 
nine months should be adequate for the Treasury to make arrangements 
to provide financing through sources other than the Federal Reserve. 
Governor Brimmer expressed agreement. 
Mr. Reynolds noted that the Treasury might point out that a 
maximum of one year had been established for repaying drawings under 
the Federal Reserve swap agreements with foreign central banks, and 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer then indicated that they would be 
willing to go up to 12 months if necessary. Governor Brimmer empha-
sized that his principal concern was to make certain that the Treasury 

9 1' 
6/28/68 
-11-
accepted its obligation as principal and made financial arrangements 
consistent with the assuming of that obligation. 
Governor Daane said he subscribed to the views expressed by 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer. If such language could be worked 
into the proposal, that would be fine. It was crucial, in any event, 
for the Treasury to state that it stood ready to reacquire the sterling 
on notice from the Federal Reserve. 
Governor Maisel commented that after the first of the year 
the Treasury would have to face up to the question of whether to 
approach the Congress for funds. 
Chairman Martin brought out that Governor Robertson might find 
at Basle that the other countries were not ready to go ahead. He then 
noted that at least six members of the Board would be available on 
Monday and that certain Reserve Bank Presidents also would be in the 
Board's offices. He suggested further discussion at that time after 
members of the Board had had an opportunity to consider the matter 
over the weekend. 
In the meantime, efforts could be made to determine 
the possibility of negotiating a change in the language of the proposal 
along lines that had been suggested today. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Attached as Item No. 4 
is a copy of a letter sent to the Bureau of 
the Budget on June 27, 1968, over the signa-
ture of Chairman Martin, in response to the 
Bureau's request concerning enrolled bill 
H.R. 15345, cited as the Bank Protection 
Act of 1968. 

"7 1 ^ 1 
k r * 
6/28/68 
-12-
On June 27, 1968, a letter was sent to The 
Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
New York, New York, acknowledging receipt of 
notice of its intent to establish an addi-
tional branch in Greece, to be located in 
Piraeus. 
On June 27, a letter was also sent to First 
National City Bank, New York, New York, 
acknowledging receipt of notice of its intent 
to establish an additional branch in Argentina, 
to be located in Cordoba. 
On June 27 and 28, letters were sent to Bank 
of America National Trust and Savings Associa-
tion, San Francisco, California, acknowledging 
receipt of notice of its intent to establish an 
additional branch in Paraguay, to be located in 
Asuncion, and two additional branches in Colom-
bia, to be located in Medellin and in Cali. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Sherrill, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf of the 
Board on June 27, 1968, the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
Item No. 5) interposing no objection to an extension of the assignment 
of Robert J. Hochstatter, Senior Bank Examiner, to the International 
Monetary Fund for a period of approximately six weeks, to conduct a 
training program for the examination staff of the Central Bank of 
Uruguay. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Raymond C. Diggs as Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Barry R. Harper as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Clarence Jones as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 

f j • L 
6/28/68 
-13-
Transfer 
Joyce Larene Barrett, from the position of Stenographer in the 
Division of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer 
in the Division of Examinations, with no change in basic annual salary 
at the rate of $5,161, effective June 30, 1968. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Sherrill, 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the sending of letters to all 
foreign banking and foreign financing cor-
porations operating under sections 25 and 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act calling 
for reports of condition as of June 30, 
1968. 
Governor Robertson also approved today on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recommending 
the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Foreign travel authorization 
Robert L. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of International 
Finance, to attend, in place of John E. Reynolds, a meeting of Work-
ing Party 2 of the OECD to be held in Paris on July 11-12, 1968. 
Appointments 
Gloria Jean Avery as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,161, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Joyce Lorraine King as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,466, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Karen Marie Retrum as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,466, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Appointments under Youth Opportunity Program 
Appointment of the following persons as Summer Trainees, with 
compensation at the rate of $1.60 per hour, effective the respective 
dates of entrance upon duty, with the understanding that they might 

6/28/68 
-14-
be assigned to various divisions of the Board's staff but that, for 
budgetary and payroll purposes, they would be carried in the Special 
Project-Youth Opportunity Program in the Division of Administrative 
Services: 
Bruce Chatmon 
Donald Murray 
Alma Harvey 
Bernadette Smith 
Paulette Holloway 
Salary increases, effective June 30, 1968 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
Office of the Secretary 
Bas ic annual salary 
To 
Marjorie Eaton, Open Market Secretariat 
$ 9,668 
$10 291 
Assistant (change in title from General 
Assistant) 
Jo Ann D. Landen, Senior Records Clerk 
5,565 
5,751 
M . Joan McLean, Supervisor, Clearing Unit 
6,959 
8 054 
N. Lois Orr, Secretary 
6,547 
6,752 
Legal 
Virginia P. Hoffman, Stenographer 
5,327 
5 493 
Norma L. Neitzey, Secretary 
7,572 
7,777 
Research and Statistics 
Joseph C. Golden, Senior Economist 
19,017 
19 630 
Barbara Harris, Statistical Clerk 
5,327 
5,'493 
International Finance 
Gordon B. Grimwood, Assistant to the Director 
21,469 
22,082 
Bank Operations 
Alice V. Hall, Operations Analyst 
9,657 
9,979 
Administrative Services 
Lawrence N. Braxton, Operator (Duplicating Devices) 
4,971 
5,242 
Viola E. Hamilton, Charwoman 
4,406 
4,532 
Napoleon H. Marrow, Jr.,Operator (Mimeograph) 
4,701 
4,950 
Abraham Rose, Operator (Multilith) 
6,074 
6,365 

6/28/68 
-15-
Salary increases, effective June 30, 1968 (continued) 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Administrative Services 
Abner Thompson, Pressman-Photographer 
Herman Lee Tobler, Sergeant, Guard Force 
Hubert G. Weems, Guard 
$7,779 
$7,925 
6,681 
6,867 
5,062 
5,211 
Data Processing 
Helen K. Black, Statistical Assistant 
6,137 
6,342 
Transfers 
Lynda Fein, from the position of Administrative Clerk to the 
position of Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, with 
an increase in basic annual salary from $5,161 to $5,565, effec-
tive June 30, 1968. 
Lillian Humphrey, from the position of Statistical Clerk to 
the position of Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with an increase in basic annual salary from $5,493 
to $5,937, effective June 30, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignations 
John F. Rand, Systems Engineer, Division of Data Processing, 
effective the close of business June 28, 1968. 
Carol R. Harig, Assistant Manager, Cafeteria, Division of 
Administrative Services, effective the close of business June 28, 
1968. 
John D. Holsey, Painter, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business June 28, 1968. 
Errol L. Hough, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business July 5, 1968. 
Permission to engage in outside activity 
Daniel G. Simms, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
>rk for a building maintenance company on a part-time basis. 

2438 
6/28/68 
-16-
On June 27', 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
items, copies of which are attached under 
the respective numbers indicated: 
By the Acting' Director of the Division of Examinations 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving the appointment of Richard R. Ranftle, 
Eugene S. Yalicki, Peter L. Zanko, and Frank B. 
Zook as assistant examiners. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
approving the designation of George C. Black, 
Jr., as special assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation regarding the application of 
Bank of Galesburg, Galesburg, Illinois, 
for continuation of deposit insurance 
after withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to The Bank of Sussex County, Franklin, 
New Jersey, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Hampton Township. 
Item No, 
Secretary 

2499 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
'6/28/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OrriCUL CORRC9PDNBIXCE 
TO THE 
B O A P D 
June 28, 1968. 
Continental International Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of June 7, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold additional shares of House of 
Investments, Inc., Makati, Philippines, at a cost of approximately 
$41,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activi-
ties of your Corporation, Continental Illinois National Bank and 
Trust Company of Chicago, and Continental Bank International, New 
York, and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
'6/28/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 28, 1968. 
Crocker-Citizens International Corporation, 
1 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of June 5, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold additional shares of House of 
Investments, Inc., Makati, Philippines, at a cost of approximately 
$41,400, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board also approves the purchase and holding of shares 
of House of Investments, Inc. within the terms of the above consent 
in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
Additionally, the Board approves the purchase and holding of such 
shares to the extent the investment causes total liabilities to 
your Corporation by House of Investments to exceed 50 per cent of 
your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activi-
ties of your Corporation and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

wWb'i 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 3 
6/28/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 28, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
As requested in your letter of June 13, 1968, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minimum and maximum annual salaries 
for the structure formerly applicable to the Head Office and the 
El Paso and Houston Branches, and that the revised structure be desig-
nated as the structure applicable to the Head Office and the El Paso, 
Houston, and San Antonio Branches, effective July 1, 1968: 
Dallas, El Paso, Houston, and San Antonio 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
) 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
$ 3,330 
3,375 
3,420 
3,680 
4,070 
4,500 
5,000 
5,550 
6,165 
6,865 
7,650 
8,525 
9,435 
10,500 
11,700 
13,050 
$ 3,925 
4,210 
4,500 
4,965 
5,500 
6,080 
6,745 
7,490 
8,325 
9,270 
10,325 
11,510 
12,735 
14,180 
15,785 
17,615 

Mr. Philip E. Coldwell 
- 2 -
V • 
_ 
• 
. . . , 
f 
• 
• 
s 
! 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees within 
the limits specified for the grades in which the positions of the respec-
tive employees are classified. All employees whose salaries are below 
the minimum of their grades as a result of this structure increase should 
be brought within appropriate ranges by October 1, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2503 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C. 2 Q 5 5 I 
Q f 
T H E 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 4 
6/28/68 
June 27, 1968. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of June 25, 1968, 
for the views of the Board of Governors with respect to enrolled 
bill H. R. 15345, "To provide security measures for banks and 
other financial institutions, and to provide for the appointment 
of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation as receiver." 
The Board recommends approval of the measure insofar 
as it relates to security measures for banks and other financial 
institutions, but expresses no view with regard to section 6, 
which is outside the area of the Board's responsibility. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

2504 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 5 
'6/28/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
a r r i c i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 27, 1968 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
Your letter of June 13 regarding an extension of 
Mr. Hochstatter's assignment to the International Monetary 
Fund has been brought to the attention of the Board. 
The 
Board interposes no objection to the action by the directors 
of your Bank in extending Mr. Hochstatter
1s leave of absence 
without pay for approximately six weeks. 
Very truly yours f 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

Item N o . 6 
6/28/68 
June 27, 1968 
PIDERIT - NEW YORK 
Relet Timlen June 25, 1968, Acting Director, Division of Examinations, 
on behalf Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves appoint-
ments of Richard R . Ranftle, Eugene S. Yalicki, Peter L . Zanko and 
Frank B . Zook as assistant examiners for the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York effective date of this telegram. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
CARMICHAEL 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 

2506 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 7 
'6/28/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 28, 1968 
Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of June 24, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the designation of George C. 
Black, Jr. as a special assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
As sistant Secretary. 

J J 5 0 7 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
'6/28/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 1, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of June 25, 1968, con-
cerning the application of Bank of Galesburg, Galesburg, Illinois, 
for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations has stated, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors, that there have been no corrective programs urged upon 
the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, 
and there are no programs that the Acting Director would advise be 
incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank to membership in 
the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

^•I40A.2*11/67 
2 5 0 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
N E W YORK, N E W YORK 10045 
» 
I 
s 
' 
Item No. 9 
6/28/68 
' JIW 2 7 1968 
lr. Vllllaa I. Bill 
»***ldent 
*he Bank of Sussex County 
Franklin, Dow Jersoy 
Dear Mr* Blllt 
Ve refer to your letter of Juno 24, 1968 requesting an 
tension of time within vhlch your bank nay establish a branch 
ythe rlelnlty of Routes 206 and 9*, Baapton Township, Sussex 
Coukty, Bov Jersey, as approrod on October 10, 1966 by the Board 
of (Jove m o r s of the Federal Reserve System, 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, the Federal Reserre 
Tank of Bev York, acting under delegated authority, approves your 
^Auest and oxtends to October 10, 1968 the tlao within vhlch your 
oei^k any establish a branch at the above location. 
Ve shall appreciate your advising us when the branch 
Is established and opened for business, giving the effective date 
of opening, the naae, if any, by which it will be known, and the 
official postal address, including the sip code nuaber. 
Flease acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing 
returning the onclosed copy to us* 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C* Thoaan 
Assistant Vice President 
