Minutes for 
February 10, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
r; 

459 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, February 10, 1967. 
The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Eckert, 
Bernard, Ettin, Fry, and Kelty, and Miss 
Stockwell of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Reynolds, Bryant, 
Gemmill, and Ruckdeschel of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. 
Mr. Kelty summarized developments in the 
Government securities market, along with prospective Treasury financing 
requirements, and Mr. Axilrod commented on bank credit projections. 
Mr. 
Gemmill then commented on foreign exchange developments and on the pro-
spective adequacy of the U.S. gold stock to cover the statutory reserve 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

4 R 0 
2/10/67 
-2-
requirement against Federal Reserve note liabilities. 
Copies of the 
tables and charts distributed in connection with today's review, and of 
Mr. Gemmill's paper on the gold cover requirement, have been placed in 
the Board's files. 
All members of the staff who had attended primarily for the 
money market review then withdrew from the meeting and the following 
entered the room: 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Discount rates. 
The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on February 3 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, and Dallas on February 9, 1967, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved letters. 
The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made available 
to the Board. 
Copies of the letters are attached under the respective 
item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bankers Trust Company, New York, New 
1 
York, approving the establishment of a branch 
at 45 East 89th Street, Borough of Manhattan. 

461 
2/10/67 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to Central Bank, Grand Rapids, Michigan, 
2 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Paris Township, Kent County. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget regarding 
3 
a draft bill with respect to the income tax 
treatment of small business investment 
companies. 
Proposed small business legislation. 
There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated February 9, 1967, from the Legal Division regarding a 
request from the Bureau of the Budget for the Board's views on a Small 
Business Administration draft bill, the purpose of which seemed to be to 
expand existing programs of assistance to small businesses either directly 
or through the instrumentality of small business investment companies. 
The memorandum summarized the principal provisions of the bill, which 
would amend both the Small Business Act and the Small Business Investment 
Act of 1958 in a number of respects. 
Also set forth in the memorandum 
were comments by Miss Stockwell of the Division of Research and Statis-
tics analyzing the bill and suggesting that the Board might wish to 
express reservations about the provisions that would lengthen the matu-
rity of certain Small Business Administration loans and increase the 
proportion of Government funds permitted in the capital structure of 
small business investment companies. 
The reasoning presented by Miss 
Stockwell was reflected in a draft letter to the Bureau of the Budget 
that was attached to the memorandum. 

462 
2/10/67 
-9-
After introductory comments by Mr. Forrestal, Miss Stockwell 
discussed the provisions of the draft bill to which she suggested that 
the Board might wish to take exception. 
It was proposed to extend from 
10 to 15 years the maximum term for Small Business Administration loans 
to small businesses; to remove the provisions of present law limiting 
the ratio of public funds invested in small business investment compa-
nies; and to substitute therefor provisions that would permit investment 
of public funds up to 300 per cent of private funds, with no maximum 
aggregates. 
Miss Stockwell reviewed the reasons that had been offered 
in support of these proposed changes and commented on the departure the 
changes would appear to represent from the original intent of the perti-
nent statutes. 
She noted the possible need, if such departure was 
necessary, to consider the advisability of some different type of pro-
gram. 
She also noted that the proposed increase in the required minimum 
capital of small business investment companies over a period of years 
from $300,000 to $1 million would appear to be a desirable change; the 
present minimum had resulted in the creation of an undue number of 
companies that were too small to operate effectively and profitably. 
Governor Brimmer brought out that before becoming a member of 
the Board he had participated quite actively in Small Business Adminis-
tration matters. 
Last night he had discussed the current draft bill 
with officials of the Small Business Administration and had obtained 
information, including additional insight into the rationale underlying 

463 
2/10/67 
-9-
the proposed legislation, that supplemented the presentation by the 
Board's staff. 
He suggested that a decision on the report to the Budget 
Bureau be deferred until he could work with the staff in making that 
additional information available to the Board. 
Accordingly, it was agreed to defer further consideration of 
the matter. 
Governor Maisel withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Carry-over of excess reserves (Item No. 4). 
It had been the 
custom of American National Bank and Trust Company, Rockford, Illinois, 
to sell excess reserves each Friday, usually in an amount between $10 
million and $15 million. 
However, because of snow disaster conditions 
in the Midwest, the books of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago were 
closed on Friday, January 27, 1967, and American National was unable to 
dispose of its excess funds in the customary manner. 
American National 
then requested permission to carry its excess reserves into the next 
reserve computation period in order that it might recoup the loss of 
income it claimed to have sustained. 
The Chicago Reserve Bank, while 
not recommending favorable action, requested the Board's current position 
regarding carrying over excess reserves. 
There had been distributed 
copies of pertinent correspondence, along with a draft of telegram that 
would inform the Reserve Bank that the request could not be granted un-
der authority of the terms of Regulation D (Reserves of Member Banks), 
which reflected the Board's current position. 

464 
2/10/67 
-6-
Discussion brought out that the Board had at times authorized the 
waiver of penalties for reserve deficiencies under disaster conditions 
and had done so in a telegram to the Chicago Reserve Bank on January 27 
because of the recent snow disaster. 
In only one previous instance, in 
circumstances somewhat different from those connected with the present 
request, had the Board granted authority to carry over excess reserves, 
namely, at the time of the November 1965 power failure in the Northeast-
ern part of the United States. 
The two situations were dissimilar in a 
number of respects; among other things, the power failure occurred on a 
date just prior to the end of a reserve computation period, and it was 
of unpredictable duration. 
Governor Brimmer raised a number of questions about the circum-
stances of the power failure incident and about the Chicago situation 
that were intended to throw light on the policy question whether the 
Federal Reserve should feel under an obligation to provide an opportunity 
for a member bank to sell Federal funds. 
He then expressed the view that 
to allow the requested privilege in this case would appear to establish a 
precedent for similar requests in connection with other snow, flood, and 
similar disasters. 
It appeared to him that in such circumstances the 
Board had gone far enough in authorizing the waiver of penalties for 
reserve deficiencies. 
Mr. Hackley pointed out that as a legal matter, quite apart from 
policy, while there was provision in Regulation D for granting authority 

8 
2/10/67 
-9-
to waive penalties for reserve deficiencies, there was no provision for 
granting a privilege such as here requested. 
Therefore, unless the 
Board wished to amend Regulation D, an undesirable precedent might be 
set by granting the request. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the telegram to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago was approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
In response to a request 
made on behalf of the House Banking and Cur-
rency Committee, a letter was sent today to 
the Staff Director of the Committee listing 
the names and current salaries of the Presi-
dents of the respective Federal Reserve Banks. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Shepardson, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf of the 
Board on February 9, 1967, the transfer of 
Linda Snyder, Statistical Clerk in the Divi-
sion of Bank Operations, to the position of 
Programmer (Trainee) in the Division of Data 
Processing, with an increase in basic annual 
salary from $5,096 to $5,507, effective upon 
assuming her new duties. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Shepardson, 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia (copy attached 
as Item No. 5) approving the appointment of Arnold A. Barnabei as 
assistant examiner. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 

466 
2/10/67 
-9-
Appointments 
Rosalie H. Dulin as Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Eugene P. Griffin as Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Gracie F. Reynolds as Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, with annual salary at the rate of $1,927 (4-hour day), effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective February 12, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Research and Statistics 
Caroline H. Cagle, Economist 
$13,201 
$13,580 
Ann Roane Clary, Assistant Chief Librarian 
9,221 
9,536 
Mary C. Deese, Statistical Clerk 
4,776 
4,936 
Penelope Johnson, Statistical Assistant 
5,683 
6,065 
James L. Kichline, Economist 
9,536 
9,851 
Neva Van Peski, Economist 
10,166 
10,927 
Mary F. Weaver, Statistical Assistant 
7,942 
8,155 
International Finance 
Suzanne C. Swenson, Senior Clerk 
4,936 
5,331 
(change in title from Clerk) 
Administrative Services 
John P. Fling, Sr., Operator (Offset Press) 
7,946 
8,341 
Data Processing 
Charles M. Wrenn, Programmer 
7,696 
7,957 
Transfers 
Gary P. Cochran, from the position of Assistant Operations Analyst 
in the Division of Bank Operations to the position of Personnel Assistant 
in the Division of Personnel Administration, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $6,451, effective February 13, 1967. 

467 
2/10/67 
-9-
Transfers 
(continued) 
Lawrence L. Waytes, from the position of Messenger to the position 
of Mail Clerk, Division of Administrative Services, with no change in 
basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective February 12, 1967. 
Maternity leave 
Grace Anne Burnes, Stenographer, Division of Examinations, beginning 
the close of business February 17, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Nancy K. Bergstedt, Clerk-Typist, Division of International Finance, 
effective February 21, 1967. 

468 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
2/10/67 
A O O R C S B O F F I C I A L C • R R C S P O N D C N C C 
TO THC 
H O A R D 
February 10, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Bankers Trust Company, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System approves the establishment by 
Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York, of a 
branch at 45 East 89th Street, Borough of Manhattan, 
New York, New York, provided the branch is estab-
lished within two years from the date of this 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

469 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/10/67 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20S51 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 10, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Central Bank, 
Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Central Bank, 
Grand Rapids, Michigan, of a branch at the southwest 
corner of Eastern Avenue, S. E., and 44th Street, S. E., 
Paris Township, Kent County, Michigan, provided the . 
branch is established within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

470 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
OF THE 
Item No. 1 
2/10/67 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 205S1 
A O O R E B B O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
• • . » • 
February 10, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Bureau of the Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr, Rommel: 
This is in response to your Legislative Re-
ferral Memorandum of January 25, 1967, requesting the 
views of the Board on a draft bill "To amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1954 with respect to the 
income tax treatment of small business investment com-
panies. " 
Since the provisions of the draft bill do 
not relate to its area of responsibility, the Board 
has no comments with respect to the proposed legis-
lation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

471 
T E L E G R A M 
4 
L E A S E D W I R E S E R V I C E 
2/10/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
February 10, 1967 
Bierbauer - Chicago 
Reurtel February 9, 1967, Regulation D reflecting 
Board's current position does not authorize carrying 
over excess reserves from one reserve computation 
period into the next for purpose of maintaining 
required reserves. 
Telegram of January 27, 1967, . 
concerns, solely, authority to waive assessment of 
penalty for a deficiency in reserves resulting from 
snow-disaster conditions. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 

472 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 205S! 
Item No. 1 
2/10/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R C H P D N D C N C C 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 10, 1967 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of February 3, 1967, the Board approves 
the appointment of Arnold A. Barnabei as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
