MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 23, 1969 

Q - > 
^ J u u 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 23, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
: ' •••< 
.! , V < • ' ... , ' • 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance If 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard, Miss Ormsby, and Mrs. Semia of 
the Office of the Secretary 
Economic review. The staff presented both a money market review 
and a review of international developments and domestic business and 
financial conditions of the kind customarily given in advance of meetings 
°f the Federal Open Market Committee. The reports were based to some 
extent on materials that had been prepared for Tuesday's Committee meeting, 
and copies of the relevant documentation have been placed in the Commit-
tee's files. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the money 
Market review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also attended. 

2034 
6/23/69 
-2-
All members of the research divisions then withdrew except 
Messrs. Solomon, Gramley, Sigel, Eckert, Hersey, Gemmill, and Altmann 
and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions. 
Extension of interest rate legislation. Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to the Bureau of the Budget reporting on a 
Treasury draft bill "to make permanent the authority for more flexible 
regulation of maximum rates of interest or dividends." A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Currency and coin services. At the meeting on June 13, 1969, 
the Board discussed problems encountered in studying alternatives to 
Present arrangements, which the Treasury expected to discontinue, for 
Providing currency and coin services to Puerto Rico. 
Since it appeared 
-that it would not be possible to resolve certain policy questions by 
June 30, the date when the Treasury intended to close its currency 
custody accounts, it was agreed to request the Treasury to defer such 

2935 
6/23/69 
-3-
action for 90 days. Accordingly, the Treasury now proposed to close 
the accounts on September 30. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated June 17, 
1969, from Governor Brimmer stating that further discussions had 
indicated that it would be desirable (a) to send a task force to Puerto 
Rico to assess the situation, and (b) to appoint an ad hoc System 
committee to develop and evaluate possible approaches to the Puerto 
Rican problem that would be compatible with general System policy with 
respect to currency and coin services. 
•Uj x,;..•»« 
laj 
Governor Brimmer proposed to head the task force, which would 
' 
(
V
- 
- > 
include representatives of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Opera-
tions and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The visit was planned 
for the week of July 21. 
For the ad hoc committee, Governor Brimmer proposed representa-
tion from the Board and from the New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and San 
Francisco Reserve Banks--the New York Bank because it had been handling 
the service up to now; the Richmond and Atlanta Banks because of the 
Possibility that one of them might become involved in future services 
to Puerto Rico; and the San Francisco Bank because any decision with 
respect to Puerto Rico might affect its services to Guam and other 
Pacific islands. 
Discussion having indicated agreement by the other members 
the Board with the arrangements outlined by Governor Brimmer, the 

6/23/69 
-4-
plans described in his memorandum were approved unanimously. 
Governor Brimmer also referred to a letter he had received 
from Senator Fong of Hawaii expressing concern regarding the implica-
tions of the discontinuance of the present Treasury currency and coin 
services in Hawaii. A draft of reply had been distributed. 
The letter to Senator Fong was approved unanimously. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
Euro-dollars. At the request of the Board, the staff had been 
exploring the feasibility of a marginal reserve requirement to apply 
to the Euro-dollar borrowings of U.S. banks. Material prepared by the 
Division of International Finance analyzing this possibility and its 
delated problems included a memorandum dated April 17, two of May 27, 
and one of June 19, 1969, copies of which have been placed in the 
Board's files. The figure suggested for discussion purposes was a 
10 per cent reserve requirement on Euro-dollar holdings above a base, 
and various ways of setting the base figure were offered for consideration. 
In the memorandum of April 17 it was concluded that a marginal 
reserve requirement on foreign branch claims on the U.S. parent bank 
and on other U.S. residents, together with branch assets acquired through 
Purchase from the U.S. parent, might well slow the inflow of Euro-dollars 
to the U.S. Moreover, such a marginal reserve requirement would remove 
a s much of the special advantage of large banks with foreign branches as 
it seemed reasonable to remove. Alternatives were (1) reserve requirements 

6/23/69 
-5-
on head office liabilities to foreign branches (or branch claims on 
head offices) and on branch assets acquired through purchase from the 
l); • ^ 
head office; and (2) reserve requirements on all foreign branch claims 
• j -
on U.S. residents and on all assets acquired through purchase from the 
head office. The relative merits of these alternatives were discussed 
in 
one of the May 27 memoranda. 
The other memorandum of May 27 explored possible forms of an 
amendment to Regulation D to define as deposits direct borrowings from 
foreign banks located outside the U.S. It was concluded that such an 
l V " {./: 
; 
; s 
. i 
j •„ 
amendment could under some conditions prevent the substitution of direct 
' 
! • ! 
' 
Vtii 
1 - i' -1 I "< ] • 
borrowing for additional borrowing through foreign branches, and thus 
• t.-h 
reinforce a marginal reserve requirement. 
The memorandum of June 19 discussed two problems associated 
with the imposition of marginal reserve requirements on Euro-dollars, 
namely, (1) providing for an automatic downward adjustment of the base 
whenever the level of outstanding Euro-dollar borrowings declined, and 
viy;> 
Uic 
rr -T;-.-' 
- V 
•un; 
. 
employing a formula to provide a minimum base for those banks that 
had not yet used their foreign branches to borrow large amounts of 
- >;•;<' 
..<., ; . 
: ; . . . u i i - >l :rehv r- IT . 
- • 
Euro-dollars, and for banks that had not yet obtained authorization for 
» 
>• 
. 
• » t • 
. 
foreign branches. 
As an aid to discussion, a check list had been prepared of 
decisions to be made regarding the use by American banks of Euro-dollars, 
J'.'V,,. , 
m
m 

2 0 3 8 
6/23/69 
-6-
The first question was whether or not to act on Euro-dollar takings. 
The recent inflow of Euro-dollars had been at the rate of about $1 
billion a week, and there now had developed a circuit of funds going 
out of the U.S.--foreign money and probably American money also--and 
brought back in by American banks. A potential problem was that 
reversal of the inflow could have serious effects on the standing of 
the dollar in foreign exchange markets and the stability of the 
international monetary system. Therefore, the staff believed that if 
and when the Board was prepared to take some action to restrain the 
inflow, it would be wise to shape the action so that later outflows 
would also be moderate. 
The material prepared by the staff outlined 
such a possible action. 
The staff proposals represented measures that could be modified 
over time. However, there was the question of equity to be considered. 
If the Board were to adopt some measure to deter the inflow of Euro-dollars, 
would be desirable to try to provide an element of equity for banks 
that had not used the Euro-dollar market heavily, by permitting them a 
leeway in comparison with banks that had done so. However, the poten-
tial Euro-dollar inflow would thereby be increased. The staff would 
favor, on balance, a mere gesture in the direction of equity, with the 
Possibility of further adjustment later. 
! j 
If a 10 per cent reserve requirement on Euro-dollar holdings 
W ere adopted, the cost of Euro-dollars to American banks would be 

2039 
t>/21/(>9 
-7-
increased by about one per cent at the present time. 
It was possible 
that interest in Euro-dollars might not be significantly reduced, but 
in the staff's opinion it was probable that banks would shift to domestic 
adjustments of their positions to a greater extent. 
The following paragraphs reflect the substance of comments 
by individual members of the Board regarding the Euro-dollar problem. 
Governor Mitchell questioned the necessity for taking vigorous 
action to halt the Euro-dollar inflow. He subscribed to the idea 
advanced in an earlier memorandum that the use of Euro-dollars moved 
pressure out of the banking system into the economy generally. 
In 
his view, having made a decision some years ago to let U.S. banks 
Participate in international money markets, interference with that 
Process, unless absolutely necessary, was not advisable. 
If in fact 
monetary restraint was suffering by virtue of the recent practices 
banks at home and in the Euro-dollar market, he agreed that something 
should be done about it. However, his feeling was that the quality of 
restraint was not diluted when a bank sold assets or borrowed in the 
market, because restraint was aimed at the over-all economy. 
Governor Daane suggested that an element of the problem was 
the interest of investors in obtaining the rates available in the 
Euro-dollar market. That interest would probably remain even if yields 
i > 
were brought down by a few basis points. Further, he could not accept 
the implication that a marginal reserve requirement on holdings of 

2040 
6/23/69 
-8-
Euro-dollars would induce banks to cease using the Euro-dollar market 
as a source of funds. He could see some merit in taking an action to 
indicate that the U.S. was concerned because of the magnitude of the 
fl ows and to put a control mechanism in place, but the Federal Reserve 
did not have the sole responsibility to maintain equilibrium. 
Foreign 
central banks also could take action if necessary. 
He doubted that a 
10 per cent reserve requirement would deter the inflow in a meaningful 
way. 
If a real deterrent was desired, it would be preferable to give 
U.S. banks more latitude on the rates they could pay on large CD's, 
and perhaps condone the issuance of commercial paper, although he was 
not prepared to take those actions precipitously either. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the magnitude of the 
flows was the critical consideration. While a relatively modest 
increase in Euro-dollar holdings by U.S. banks could be tolerated, a 
multi-billion dollar increase could not. The use of Euro-dollars had 
changed from a simple safety valve to something far more significant, 
and it might have an undesirable impact on some European countries. 
Moreover, the more the Euro-dollar market was stretched, the more 
diffi cult it became to take action. 
He would support imposing the 
reserve requirement now, whereas he would not have done so four or 
five months ago. 
He thought he agreed basically with the views 
'•u 
Governor Mitchell had expressed, except that only a relatively few 
banks were resorting to the Euro-dollar market, the lack of reserves 

2041 
6/23/69 
-9-
against such funds was a matter of concern, and there should be concern 
about any market becoming so stretched that it was a danger to overall 
policy. 
Governor Brimmer commended the staff for its presentation and 
expressed the view that the recommendations represented a minimum course 
°f action. 
It should be recognized that banks had been using the 
Euro-dollar market to raise funds outside the requirements of Regula-
tions D and Q. 
In doing so, they had been undermining domestic mone-
tary policy and also had been having an impact on international policy 
that should not be overlooked. 
In the light of these considerations, 
he thought the Board should adopt the proposals forthwith. 
In further 
comments, he cited figures to demonstrate that while some of the 
r . , 
banks that had been active in the Euro-dollar market also had been 
active in issuing commercial paper, the groups of banks using those 
two sources of funds were of substantially different composition. 
Governor Sherrill said that if the proposed reserve require-
m ent of 10 per cent of Euro-dollar holdings above a base would increase 
the cost of Euro-dollars by one per cent, it seemed to him that the 
^rket W Ould be affected. 
Until recently he had been maintaining that 
there was a seIf-limiting factor in the Euro-dollar market, but now 
be was not so sure. He believed that the market was bound to be affected 
u 
banks were not willing to pay more for Euro-dollars than they were 
now paying. 

2042 
6/23/69 
-10-
There followed a general debate of the matter in light of the 
views that had been expressed, after which the Board turned its 
attention to related questions on the agenda, as indicated below. 
Questions relating to Regulations D and Q. Today's agenda 
also called for preliminary discussion of several questions arising 
under Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation Q, Payment 
°f Interest on Deposits, with respect to practices through which banks 
obtained funds in such a way as to lessen the restrictive effect of 
regulatory requirements. 
Pertinent distributed material included the 
following, copies of which have been placed in the Board's files: 
Memorandum from Governor Robertson dated May 19, 1969, 
regarding the scope of Regulations D and Q; 
Memoranda from the Division of Research and Statistics 
(a) dated May 23 regarding the relation of nondeposit 
liabilities to Regulations D and Q, and (b) dated 
June 20 regarding new data on nondeposit sources of 
funds and certain loan guarantees; 
Memoranda from the Legal Division (a) dated May 26 
regarding Governor Robertson's proposal to expand the 
meaning of "deposits" in Regulations D and Q; (b) 
dated June 18 regarding commercial paper issued by 
affiliates of banks; and (c) dated June 19 regarding 
interbank transactions and bank liabilities on repur-
chase agreements as "deposits" subject to Regulations 
D a nd Q; a nd 
Letter from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York dated 
June 16 regarding the scope of Regulations D and Q. 
Mr. Hexter commented that the practices in question, through 
which banks obtained funds that they did not call deposits, fell into 

6/23/69 
-11-
three general categories. First were methods by which banks themselves 
obtained funds directly and in effect paid interest on those funds at 
rates higher than permitted under Regulation Q. This included repur-
chase agreements and direct promissory notes. The second category 
comprised commercial paper issued by affiliates to obtain funds in the 
market and pass them back to the bank. 
In the third group of practices 
a bank acted as guaranteeing middleman, charging a fee to arrange for 
funds to be lent to a borrower. 
Mr. Hexter noted that Governor Robertson, in his memorandum 
of May 19, had suggested a broad redefinition of the term "deposit" 
that would establish the general rule that any funds borrowed by a 
member bank or a subsidiary thereof are deposits. Thus, any funds 
received by such bank or subsidiary from the proceeds of obligations 
issued by an organization controlling or under common control with the 
bank, as well as a member bank's guarantee (by letter of credit or 
otherwise) of its customer's paper, would be "deposits" of the bank. 
A number of exceptions would be provided, as noted in Governor Robertson1 
memorandum. 
There were two possible approaches to the commercial paper 
Problem, Mr. Hexter continued. 
One was amendment of Regulation Q to 
regard as deposits not only commercial paper but also obligations of 
bank affiliates in general in situations where the affiliate obtained 
funds at rates higher than those permitted under Regulation Q and passed 

20 14 
6/23/69 
-12-
the funds back to the bank for lending in one way or another. 
It had 
been recognized in earlier discussions of this possible approach that 
it would involve legal uncertainties, but if the Board was convinced 
that this was the preferable approach, the Legal Division believed that 
the action could be justified. 
The second possible approach would 
be to rule that section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 prohibits 
affiliation between a member bank and a corporation that issues com-
mercial paper in the manner and to the extent that bank holding com-
panies (or subsidiaries thereof) at present engage, or potentially may 
engage, in that practice. 
It was the Legal Division's view that 
although a superficially plausible argument could be made for this 
approach, the legal ground was not strong. 
Mr. Sanders referred to the Board s outstanding proposal, 
Published for comment in September 1968, to amend Regulations D and 
Q so as to bring interbank transactions and bank liabilities on 
repurchase agreements within the coverage of the term "deposits." At 
Present only documentary obligations of a bank were covered by the 
term, whereas the proposed amendments would bring non-documentary 
°bligations within it. The two main results would be to limit the 
exemption for obligations issued under repurchase agreements to those 
based on U.S. obligations, direct and/or fully guaranteed, and to 
specify that any participation in a pool of obligations, where the 
Participation was sold under repurchase agreement, was a deposit for 

6/23/69 
-13-
the purposes of Regulations D and Q (even if the participation applied 
to a pool of Government securities). 
There was a question about the appropriate effective date if 
the Board now adopted the proposal, Mr. Sanders pointed out. The 
September 1968 invitation for comments had indicated that obligations 
issued on or after September 25 might be made subject to the new 
requirements. 
However, in view of the time that had elapsed, the 
Legal Division believed that it would be more equitable to set the 
effective date 30 days from the date of the Board's action. Also, it 
might be desirable to confer further with the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that the concern over commercial 
Paper, like the concern over Euro-dollars, brought him back to the 
Question whether it was adverse to the Federal Reserve's monetary 
Posture if banks sought to go into debt in various ways and as a result 
seemingly increased their capacity to lend, or at least kept it from 
shrinking. 
Mr. Axilrod commented that there were distributional factors 
involved. 
In the present environment, if marginal reserve requirements 
were placed on Euro-dollar holdings sufficiently high to inhibit banks 
from adding to their holdings, and if Regulations D and Q were extended 
t o the other instruments banks were using, it seemed to him that unless 

mm 
6/23/69 
-14-
credit demands diminished the effect of monetary restraint would be 
redistributed very sharply into the municipal market and probably into 
the 
mortgage market. Also, banks would again raise the prime rate, 
unless they were politically apprehensive or unless they rationed loans. 
If the instruments that had been used as safety valves or escape 
hatches were put out of reach, then unless credit demands subsided 
substantially, he thought a significant market effect would result. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that in view of the inference that 
it might not be important to forestall or dampen the access by banks 
to funds beyond the coverage of Regulations D and Q, it would seem 
well 
to refer again to the memorandum from the Division of Research 
and Statistics dated June 20, which indicated that funds so obtained 
were growing rapidly. 
He thought it made a great deal of difference 
whether these resources were in the hands of large, aggressive banks 
o r in the hands of other banks. 
In his view, the letter of June 16 
from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had laid out that issue very 
well. 
Just as he thought the Board should deal promptly with the growing 
u se of Euro-dollars, he also believed that the Board should deal with 
the use of commercial paper and other debt instruments. As a minimum, 
believed that the Board should adopt promptly the amendments published 
for comment last September with respect to repurchase agreements. 
Since a question had been raised about allowing banks more 
latitude in the rate they could pay on large CD's, Governor Brimmer 

6/23/69 
-15-
continued, he had asked the staff to gather some figures to indicate 
how rapidly banks recovered their losses from CD runoffs when market 
rates permitted them to do so. 
It appeared from those data, that if 
the Board should increase the rates that might be paid on large CD's, 
banks would respond rather quickly. 
Governor Sherrill referred to the fact that when a bank obtained 
funds through liability instruments it also affected its liquidity ratio. 
He inquired what magnitudes might be involved before that effect would 
deter a bank from incurring additional debt, and Mr. Gramley replied 
that in his view banks must be concerned now about the size of their 
involvement in the Euro-dollar market and what they would face in the 
coming months. 
If something happened to limit their access to addi-
tional funds, they might be in real trouble. The effects were being 
S een now in the attitude of banks toward various types of loans, for 
a large decline in liquidity had occurred in the past several months. 
He hoped that the Board would not move at the present time in either 
°f the areas it had discussed this morning simply in the belief that 
its restrictive policies were not working. 
In his view, present reports 
indicated that monetary policy was really biting. 
Gove rnor Robertson said that, while he thought it was desirable 
t o discuss the various practices as a group, he would be loath to see 
the Board act on all of them, pro or con, at the same time. He suggested 

zom 
6/23/69 
-16-
that a first action might be the one relating to repurchase agreements, 
which had been published for comment last September and which seemed to 
involve no severe legal problem. Then that could be followed up in a 
week or two with the proposal for a marginal reserve requirement on 
Euro-dollar holdings, and subsequently with the proposal relating to 
commercial paper. The purpose would be to enable the Board to get a 
feeling of the impact of the successive actions. 
Further discussion dealt principally with questions of timing. 
Some members expressed a preference for acting first with respect to 
Euro-dollar holdings, and it was understood that further consideration 
would be given in the near future to all of the questions discussed 
thi8 morning. 
^g-lb;. : -,r O * 
U v. IV ' 
•) ? 'I- : 
t v-
The meeting then adjourned. 
a n d 
i.o.-)'.'•• 
AU-h Ih „ • V- , U .. ' ' 
T 
•. . 
/ 
Secretary 

2049 
OlfiQ 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
6/23/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 24, 1969 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
'•• i •. •. 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in reply to your Legislative Referral Memorandum 
°f June 11, 1969, requesting the views of the Board on a Treasury 
draft b ill "To make permanent the authority for more flexible 
regulation of maximum rates of interest or dividends." 
The Board believes that under present circumstances it 
is essential to continue rate ceilings. Moreover, the flexibility 
and coordination provided for in Public Law 89-597, including the 
authority to suspend rate ceilings when they are not needed, should 
be made a permanent part of the law. Accordingly, the Board favors 
enactment of the bill. 
- -si' t 
( 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
',( y • . 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

> *,*' 
B
O
A
R
D 
O F 
G
O
V
E
R
N
O
R
S 
D F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C . 
S D 5 S I 
Aw 
Item No. 2 
6/23/69 
A N D R E W 
F. 
B R I M M E R 
M E M B E R 
D F 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 23, 1969 
51 
The Honorable. Hiram L. Fong, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Senator Fong: 
Thank you for your letter of June 18, 1969, concerning 
currency and coin services Co Hawaii. 
We have been advised that you have already been informed 
by the Treasury of the deferment of 90 days of the date for clos-
ing out the Treasurer's Custody Account at the First Hawaiian Bank 
in Honolulu. 
The Federal Reserve investigation, mentioned in your 
letter, of steps to be taken in the light of the Treasury's deci-
sion with respect to currency custody accounts, will not be 
confined to Puerto Rico. The study is being made for the purpose 
of developing procedures to provide currency and coin service to 
Uawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and other off-shore 
Points that would be compatible with general System policy with 
respect to such services. 
One possibility, among others being considered, is to 
supply currency and coin to banks in these outlying areas on the 
same basis offered to mainland banks—i.e., any commercial bank 
m a y request shipments from, or make shipments to, a Federal Re-
serve Bank with the understanding that such shipments will be made 
a t Federal Reserve risk and expense in the case of member banks, 
and at the commercial bank's risk and expense in the case of 
nonmember banks. This policy is based on a belief that banks which 
have elected not to be members of the Federal Reserve System because 
the burden of reserve requirements should not expect to receive 
the free services which the System offers to member banks. 
While it is too soon to attempt to forecast what finally 
will be decided with respect to currency and coin services to banks 
in off-shore areas, I. can assure you that there will be no interrup-
tion in the flow of currency to Hawaii under any circumstances. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Sgd.) Andrew F. Brimmer 
Andrew F. Brimmer 
l&l; 
