Minutes for 
February 11, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

436 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, February 11, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Winkler of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Via and Mrs. Duerson of the Legal Division 
Mr. Cleaver and Miss Wickstead of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Maguire and McClintock of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Wilkes County Bank & Trust 
Company, North Wilkesboro, North Carolina, into The Northwestern Bank, 
North Wilkesboro, North Carolina, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion 
stating that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 

497 
2/11/69 
-2-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Fulton National Bank of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia, with 
The Bank of the South National Association, Atlanta, Georgia, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
the conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of First National Bank of Biloxi, Biloxi, Mississippi, into 
First National Bank of Hattiesburg, Hattiesburg, Mississippi, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is little, if any, existing competition between 
First National Bank of Hattiesburg and First National Bank 
of Biloxi, although there is some potential for increased 
competition through cie novo branching. The overall compet-
itive effect would be slightly adverse. 
Application of Exchange Bancorporation (Items 1 and 2). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's action on January 15, 1969, approving the application of 
Exchange Bancorporation, Inc., Tampa, Florida, to become a bank hold-
ing company through the acquisition of a majority of the shares of 
four banks in the State of Florida. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 

4 
2/11/69 
-2-
Request of Congresswoman Sullivan. On January 10, 1969, a 
letter was received from Congresswoman Sullivan expressing concern, 
in light of articles that had recently appeared in the Washington 
Post, about the financing of real estate speculators in slum areas. 
She enclosed a copy of her letter to Mr. Rand, Acting Chairman of the 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and asked for similar information from 
the Board of Governors concerning practices of State member banks. 
There had now been distributed a draft of reply to Mrs. 
Sullivan based on the results of inquiries made of the Federal Reserve 
Banks, which indicated generally that State member banks did not engage 
in practices of the type mentioned in the newspaper articles. 
Governor Robertson commented that he was not satisfied with 
the letter as drafted and had suggested certain changes to the staff, 
the general purpose of which he described. There followed a discussion 
of these proposed changes and other points raised by members of the 
Board, some of which had to do with the question of responsibility of 
bank examiners to go beyond loan legality and soundness of the loan 
portfolio. It was then understood that a revised draft of reply to 
Mrs. Sullivan would be prepared for the Board's consideration, taking 
into account the comments at today's meeting. 
Bank protection (Item No. 3). Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to Chairman Fascell of the Legal and Monetary Affairs 
Subcommittee of the House Committee on Government Operations concerning 

499 
2/11/69 
-2-
the Board's Regulation P, Minimum Security Devices and Procedures for 
Federal Reserve Banks and State Member Banks. 
The approved letter, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 3, 
incorporated a suggestion by Governor Mitchell. It was understood that 
copies would be sent to the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents for their 
information. 
Appointment of System Steering Committee. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated Febru-
ary 10, 1969, concerning a recommendation made by the Committee on 
Inter-Bank Electronic Communications and approved by the Conference 
of Presidents at a meeting on February 4, 1969, that the present 
Subcommittee on Improving the Payments Mechanism be dissolved and that 
Chairman Martin appoint a System Steering Committee composed of Gover-
nors and Bank Presidents for the purpose of defining the System's role 
in the domestic payments mechanism as it moved from the present pattern 
of payment by check to some kind of electronic payments system. The 
Steering Committee would also be expected to guide future System 
efforts in the payments mechanism area. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the Subcommittee on Improving 
the Payments Mechanism had been experiencing difficulty in negotiating 
with the industry because it did not have the status or stature neces-
sary to deal with its counterparts in commercial banking. Also it had 
been proceeding prior to a clear definition of policies at top System 

500 
2/11/69 
-2-
level. Accordingly, President Heflin thought it advisable to dissolve 
the Subcommittee and create a new committee to be called the System 
Steering Committee on the Payments Mechanism, to be composed of two or 
three Governors and three or four Presidents. This proposal had been 
concurred in by the Conference, which he understood was interested in 
having First Vice President Treiber also become a member of the Com-
mittee . 
Following Governor Mitchell's comments, Chairman Martin proposed 
that, if agreeable with the Board, Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and 
Sherrill and Presidents Scanlon, Swan, Heflin, and Clay and First Vice 
President Treiber be appointed to serve on the Committee, with Governor 
Mitchell acting as Chairman. There was unanimous agreement. 
Loan production offices. Governor Robertson reported that he 
had received a memorandum from Mr. Leavitt dated February 10, 1969, 
stating that Vice President Piderit of the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York had expressed concern about the lack of information with respect 
to establishment of loan production offices. 
Mr. Piderit pointed out that no reports are filed when such 
offices are established and thus it was not known which banks might be 
establishing such offices. His immediate concern was with a small 
bank that a "way-out" company was trying to acquire. He understood 
that, if successful, the company would then have the small bank open 
loan production offices at several locations in New York and possibly 

501 
2/11/69 
-2-
other States. The production offices would usually be in manufactur-
ing plants and would be used to solicit loans and in-plant deposits 
from employees. Deposits would also be solicited from the manufactur-
ing concerns. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether the Board considered that 
the matter of requiring reports on the opening of loan production 
offices was something that should be discussed with the Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation with a view toward achieving a uniform 
policy. If so, he would take up the matter with the Committee. 
There was unanimous agreement with this procedure. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Mr. Kenyon. 
Check clearing facility. Governor Mitchell reported that he 
and members of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations had 
visited in Richmond yesterday with officers of the Reserve Bank con-
cerning progress being made on the proposal to establish a Baltimore-
Washington area check clearing facility. The Reserve Bank had now 
collected information from 96 banks in the area, and in the course of 
that survey it had been informed that all of those banks would partic-
ipate in the clearing arrangement. However, the responses of two 
Washington banks (Riggs National Bank and American Security and Trust 
Company) indicated a lack of enthusiasm. 
The plan under consideration called for the establishment of 
the facility at a location outside Washington, at an estimated annual 

502 
2/11/69 
-2-
operating cost of about $1.2 million, but the discussion yesterday 
eventuated in agreement by the Richmond officers that it would be 
preferable to locate the facility in the Baltimore Branch, primarily 
due to the cost-saving that would be possible. However, the Reserve 
Bank would probably want to set up two small depots in Washington and 
Northern Virginia to collect checks and transfer them to Baltimore. 
The Reserve Bank was now going to submit a recommendation to the Board, 
and it was Governor Mitchell's view that the plan had evolved into 
quite a good program. 
mentioned Washington banks, it was agreed, Governor Mitchell said, 
that President Heflin would visit with them, particularly with the 
chief executive officer of the larger of the two banks, to develop a 
full understanding of their position. This should be helpful not 
only in terms of the specific proposal but if efforts were made to 
establish similar check clearing arrangements in other areas. The 
visits might also shed light on the question whether there should be 
a differentiation between member and nonmember banks. It was President 
Heflin's view at present that there should be no such differentiation. 
In view of the lukewarm replies received from the two afore-
The meeting then adjourned. 

503 
Item No. 1 
2/11/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
EXCHANGE BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Tampa, Florida, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of voting shares of The Exchange National 
Bank of Tampa, Tampa; The Exchange Bank 
of Temple Terrace, Temple Terrace; 
Exchange National Bank of Winter Haven, 
Winter Haven; and Gulf-to-Bay Bank & Trust 
Company, Clearwater, all In Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Exchange Bancorporation, 
Inc., Tampa, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
voting shares of the following four banks in Florida: 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of The Exchange National Bank of Tampa, Tampa; 
The Exchange Bank of Temple Terrace, Temple Terrace; and Exchange National 
Bank of Winter Haven, Winter Haven; and 60 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Gulf-to-Bay Bank & Trust Company, Clearwater. 

504 
- 2 -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice to the Comptroller of the Currency and the Florida 
Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application and requested 
their views and recommendations. Both recommended approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 4, 1968 (33 Federal Register 14910), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Juscice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of the Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this ilth day of P^bmwrjr, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

505 
Item No. 2 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
2/11/69 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
EXCHANGE BANCORPORATION INC., TAMPA, FLORIDA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Exchange Bancorporation, Inc., Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(J) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of The Exchange National Bank of Tampa, Tampa 
("Exchange Tampa"), The Exchange Bank of Temple Terrace, Temple Terrace 
("Exchange Temple Terrace"), and Exchange National Bank of Winter Haven, 
Winter Haven ("Exchange Winter Haven"), hereinafter sometimes jointly 
referred to as "The Exchange Banks"; and 60 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Gulf-to-Bay Bank & Trust Company, Clearwater ("Gulf-to-
Bay"), all in the State of Florida. 
Both Exchange Tampa and Exchange Temple Terrace are in 
Hillsborough County, at the north end of Tampa Bay on the west coast 
of Florida. Exchange Tampa ($164.7 million deposits)-^ is located in 
the downtown area of Tampa, and Exchange Temple Terrace ($7.5 million 
deposits) is located in the suburban city of Temple Terrace, about 10 
miles northwest of downtown Tampa. 
1/ All banking data are as of June 29, 1968. 

- 2 -
506 
Exchange Winter Haven ($42.7 million deposits) is located in 
Winter Haven, approximately 45 miles east of Tampa, in Polk County. 
Gulf-to-Bay ($17.7 million deposits) is located in Pinellas County in 
the City of Clearwater, which is about 20 miles west of Tampa. Each 
of the proposed subsidiaries has one office. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was 
given to, and views and recommendations requested of, the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the Florida Commissioner of Banking. Both recommended 
approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. 

507 
-2-
Competitive effect: of proposed transaction. -» Consummation 
of the proposed transaction would result in Applicant's becoming the 
sixth largest banking organization and bank holding company in the 
State of Florida. The $233 million aggregate deposits held by its 
proposed subsidiaries represent 2.3 per cent of the total deposits held 
by banks in the State. 
Of the proposed subsidiary banks, only Exchange Tampa and 
Exchange Temple Terrace appear to be located within sufficient proximity 
to each other to be significant competitors. In fact, however, competition 
between any of the four banks is negligible. Exchange Temple Terrace 
and Exchange Winter Haven both were organized by the management and 
principal stockholders of Exchange Tampa, and have been closely and 
continuously affiliated with Exchange Tampa since their organization. 
Shareholders who own 61 per cent of the stock of Exchange Tampa also 
own about the same percentage of the stock of Exchange Winter Haven, and 
a majority of the stock of Exchange Temple Terrace is owned by a 
corporation, all of the stock of which is held by trustees for the benefit 
of Exchange Tampa's shareholders. Gulf-to-Bay, the only one of the four 
banks which is not a party to the existing affiliation, is located 
20 miles from Exchange Tampa, the nearest of the Exchange Banks. It does 
not Compete with any of the Exchange Banks and, in view of a State law 
which prohibits branching, such competition is unlikely to develop in 
the future. 

508 
- 2 -
It is therefore reasonably anticipated that approval of the 
application would have no significant present or future effect on 
competition between the proposed subsidiaries.. 
The principal area served by Exchange Tampa is the City of 
Tampa. It is the second largest bank in Tampa and competes principally 
with two other large downtown Tampa banks and with several neighborhood 
banks in the city. Exchange Temple Terrace primarily serves the 
northeastern section of the city and competes principally with three 
larger banks located near that area. Exchange Winter Haven, the second 
largest bank in Polk County, serves the Winter Haven-Cypress Gardens 
area of the county, and competes principally with three other area banks, 
including two subsidiaries of Barnett National Securities Corporation, 
a registered bank holding company. Gulf-to-Bay ranks twentieth in size 
among Pinellas County banks, and is the fourth largest of seven banks 
in Clearwater. It appears that, in view of the present affiliation among 
the Exchange Banks, the only bank whose competitive ability would be 
significantly strengthened as a result of consummation of the proposed 
transaction is Gulf-to-Bay. Competition in the Clearwater area should be 
increased as a result, and it does not appear that the viability or 
competitive effectiveness of competing banks in any area would bo adversely 
affected to any undue extent. 
In view of the foregoing, the Board concludes that the proposed 
transaction would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any 

509 
combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the business of banking 
in any relevant area, nor would such consummation restrain trade, tend 
to create a monopoly, or substantially lessen competition in any section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant is a newly formed corporation and has no financial or operating 
history. Its financial condition, managerial resources, and prospects 
would be entirely dependent upon those of the subsidiary banks. 
The four proposed subsidiaries are located in prosperous, 
Populous, and rapidly growing areas in west-central Florida. Their 
financial conditions, managerial resources and prospects are considered 
to be generally satisfactory; Gulf-to-Bay, however, would likely benefit 
from the strengthened management which Applicant could provide and the 
increased facility of the holding company for raising additional capital. 
The Board concludes, therefore, that considerations relating to the 
banking factors are consistent with approval of the application, and lend 
some weight in support thereof as they relate to Gulf-to-Bay. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The banking 
needs of the three counties in which the proposed subsidiaries are 
located are being adequately served at the present time. 
No changes are proposed in the services offered by the Exchange 
Banks. It is anticipated that approval of the application would result 
in improvement and expansion of Gulf-to.-fiay's small trust department 
through the assistance of the trust staff and facilities of Exchange 

Tampa, and that Gulf-to-Bay would be better able to serve the borrowing 
needs of customers in its area through expanded lending limits and the 
specialized lending expertise of Exchange Tampa's staff. A more 
sophisticated accounting system for the subsidiary banks is proposed 
and also a personnel training and recruiting program, both of which 
could indirectly result in improved service to the public. 
Considerations under this factor provide some additional weight 
in favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
February 11, 1969. 

511 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Q F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 3 
2/11/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
F e b r u a r y 13, 
1969. 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell, 
Chairman, 
Legal and Monetary Affairs Subcommittee 
of the Committee on Government Operations, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of January 21, 1969, 
raising questions concerning the Board's regulation to implement 
the Bank Protection Act of 1968, with which you enclosed a copy of 
your statement concerning this matter that was published in the 
Congressional Record for January 17, 1969. 
In particular, you ask that the Subcommittee be advised 
of the bases on which the decision was made by the Board not to 
require the utilization by banks under its supervision of more 
security devices than those that were made mandatory, and why no 
standards or requirements were promulgated for the use of steel 
bars or gratings for windows, skylights and doors, or for the 
separation of teller-stations from bank lobbies by bullet-resistant 
glass or other devices. 
Serious consideration was given to including a requirement 
for the use of steel bars or gratings on exterior windows and doors; 
indeed, the regulation as first proposed and published in the Federal 
Register for comment included such a requirement. It was concluded, 
however, that it is questionable whether these devices afford 
sufficient protection to warrant their cost and mandatory use in the 
case of banks. Anyone who is capable of equipping himself to attack 
a bank vault, the Board understands, would have no difficulty in 
equipping himself to defeat steel bars or gratings on windows and 
doors quite easily and quickly. Consideration was also given to 
requiring that conventional teller-stations be armored and the 
tellers isolated from the public; the regulation, as you know, states 
that walk-up and drive-in stations contracted for after February 15, 
1969, should be constructed so that tellers are effectively protected 

512 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
-2-
by bullet-resistant barriers from persons outside the station. It 
was concluded, however, that a requirement that all teller stations 
be armored and the tellers isolated from the public would be in the 
nature of a maximum requirement rather than a "minimum" requirement, 
"reasonable in cost", as the Bank Protection Act prescribes. With 
the foregoing exceptions, the regulation includes virtually every 
security device the use of which was seriously advocated in the 
legislative history of the Act. 
As you point out, the Board's regulation allows bank manage-
ment considerable discretion in deciding what security devices to 
install. Placing the initial responsibility for such decisions on 
bank management is intended to accommodate the need for flexibility 
in the regulation, a need that is acknowledged in the legislative 
history of the Act. Flexibility is necessary, of course, because there 
are great differences in the extent to which banking offices are exposed 
to crime and, therefore, more security devices are appropriate for some 
banks than for others. But it should be understood that management's 
decisions as to what security devices to install are subject to review 
by the Board. The regulation requires each bank under the Board's 
supervision to file a statement of reasons in support of a decision not 
to install security devices at least equivalent to those described in 
Appendix A of the regulation. The regulation also provides that whenever 
the Board determines that the security devices or procedures used by a 
bank under its supervision are deficient, it may require the bank to 
take necessary corrective action. Thus, for example, a bank that 
believes it has good cause for not installing cameras may nevertheless 
be required to do so, if the Board disagrees with its decision. It is 
believed that this approach is more practicable from an administrative 
standpoint than the approach originally proposed under which a blanket 
requirement for security devices was coupled with a provision allowing 
banks to apply for waivers with respect to the devices. 
It should be stressed that the Board's regulation requires 
that each bank under its supervision file for each of its offices by 
March 15, 1969, and at such other times as the Board may require, a 
report on the security measures in effect, and information about past 
crimes against the office; in addition, each time a robbery, burglary 
or non-employee larceny is perpetrated or attempted at an office of a 
bank it must file a detailed report, including information on the 
effectiveness of security devices and procedures. These reports are 
designed to elicit information which, it is hoped, will enable the 
Board, in cooperation with the other interested Federal agencies, to 
make a better judgment as to what should be required in the way of 

The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
-3-
security devices and procedures. It will take some time, of course, 
for meaningful data to be accumulated and analyzed but the Board 
intends to continue its study of crimes against banks, and to make 
appropriate changes in its regulation from time to time. In this 
way we hope to effectively implement the Bank Protection Act. 
