MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 18, 1971 

5/18/71 
-2-
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco on May 6, by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on May 13, and by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on May 17, 1971, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 
Wlth the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to 
se Banks. 
cc< . 
tho 
r * v-
The Board approved unanimously the application of Barnett 
anks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Hollywood Bank and Trust Company, Hollywood, Florida, and authorized 
issuance °f an order (copy attached as Item No. 1) reflecting this 
decisi 

1224 
5/18/71 
- 3 -
Congressional testimony. Pursuant to the discussion at the 
meeting on May 14, 1971, there had been distributed revised drafts 
of statements to be presented by Governor Robertson and Governor 
Brimmer, both of whom were to appear tomorrow before the Subcommittee 
on International Trade of the House Banking and Currency Committee 
in connection with hearings being held on H.R. 8181, cited as the 
Export Expansion Finance Act of 1971. 
Governor Robertson was to testify with regard to Title I of 
the bill, which title would require the Federal Reserve to grant 
credit, under certain specified interest rate spreads, to any 
Federally insured bank seeking funds to finance the production or sale 
of goods for export from the United States. 
Governor Brimmer was to testify with regard to Title II of 
fche bill, which title would require the Federal Reserve to drop from 
the guidelines of its Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program any 
request that banks or other financial institutions limit credit to 
foreigners to finance the purchase of U.S. goods. 
The two statements were discussed and suggestions for revisions 
therein were primarily of a technical nature. It was understood that 
the statements would be reviewed in the light of the comments made 
an<3 that they would be presented in final form satisfactory to 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer, respectively. 
(Note: Copies of the 
statements, as presented, have been placed in the Board's files.) 

1224 
5/18/71 
-4-
There had also been distributed a draft of statement to be 
presented tomorrow by Chairman Burns before the Senate Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. The statement discussed 
recent developments in the international monetary system, with 
emphasis on the massive outflow of short-term funds from the United 
States. 
Following a fairly extensive discussion of various portions 
°f the draft, it was understood that the statement would be edited 
in the light of the comments that had been made and that it would 
he presented in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. 
(Note: A copy of the statement, as presented, has been placed in 
the Board's files.) 
Governor Maisel joined the meeting during the discussion of 
fche statement to be presented by Chairman Burns. 
) 
Chase Manhattan. Consideration was given to an application 
b y chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, 
a ^holly-owned subsidiary of The Chase Manhattan Bank, National 
Aq 
, 
sociation, for permission to acquire certain stocks from Chase 
International Investment Corporation, also a wholly-owned subsidiary 
O -F 
Chase Manhattan Bank, and to continue to hold the stock of Chase 
Manhattan Trust Corporation Ltd., Nassau, Bahamas, after acquisition 
y the latter of certain stock from Arcturus Investment and Develop-
m e n t, Ltd., Montreal, Canada, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chase 
Sternational Investment Corporation. The application thus involved 

1224 
5/18/71 
-5-
a shifting of corporate assets within the Chase Manhattan structure, 
and in the opinion of the staff the proposed handling of certain 
accounting questions raised in connection with the transfers appeared 
to be appropriate. 
After a discussion of the matter, during which a question 
was raised as to whether avoidance of taxes appeared to be the main 
reason for the proposed shifting of corporate assets, a majority of 
the Board concluded that the staff recommendation of approval was 
supportable. Accordingly, the application was approved, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting because in their view no sufficient 
reason for approval had been presented. A copy of the letter sent 
Pursuant to the Board's action is attached as Item No. 2. 
Texas Commerce Bancshares. Consideration was given to an 
aPplication by Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to 
become a bank holding company by acquiring a direct or beneficial 
interest in seven Houston-area banks, including Texas Commerce Bank 
National Association. The objective of the proposed holding company 
formation was to place existing interests of Texas Commerce Bank 
shareholders in the several banks in a holding company, without other-
wise modifying the identity of the banks concerned. 
During a discussion of the application, one Board member 
noted that he had inquired of the staff whether there were factors 

1224 
5/18/71 
-6-
favoring approval of the application. Governor Maisel commented, in 
this connection, that according to his understanding it had been the 
intent of the Congress to allow the formation of holding companies 
in cases of this kind with little option on the part of the regu-
latory authority. He requested a memorandum from the staff on that 
point. 
The application of Texas Commerce Bancshares was then approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that an order reflecting that 
decis ion would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
First National Bancorporation. Further consideration was 
given to the application of The First National Bancorporation, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of The National State Bank of 
Boulder, Boulderj Colorado. Staff and Reserve Bank recommendations 
W e r e favorable, but the Department of Justice viewed the competitive 
effects as significantly adverse. 
A majority of the Board members agreed with the staff that 
banking factors carried sufficient weight in this case to warrant 
1 
aPproval of the application. They also felt that the operation of 
e bank under strong ownership would serve the convenience and needs 
the Boulder community. 
A minority of the Board members concluded that the acquisition 
the bank by the First National organization would have potential 
erse effects on competition that were overriding. They noted 

1224 
5/18/71 
- 7 -
that an alternative offer for the bank had been made, that the bank's 
condition had improved somewhat since that time, and that if the 
First National organization's lead bank, which had made a loan to 
the Parsons Group to enable the latter to acquire the Boulder bank, 
foreclosed on that loan, First National would under the law have a 
Period of two years within which to sell the bank to other interests. 
The application was then approved, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting, with the understanding that an order and state-
ment reflecting the Board's decision would be prepared for the Board's 
oh", 
C.f. 
: ' L ' 
, 
f r ' ' 
j 
, 
. 
: 
" ,1 
; 
consideration, along with a dissenting statement. 
Transportation system. At its meeting on March 23, 1971, 
fche Board had considered the proposed creation of a national Federal 
Reserve transportation system that would operate from the Chicago 
Reserve Bank and three regional offices (at New York, Atlanta, and 
San Francisco) that would be set up to analyze and determine the 
°Ptimum routing for System check shipments. Responsibility for imple-
mentation would have been placed with the Committee on Collections 
o f the Conference of First Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
At that time Governor Sherrill had expressed reservations with 
regard to the organization of the proposed transportation system, 
®nd h 
ne was requested to explore alternatives. He had since worked 
out 
^ an alt ernative approach that was endorsed by the Conference of 
Piv 
• s t Vice Presidents at its meeting on April 27. The alternative 

1224 
5/18/71 
-8-
approach, as outlined in a memorandum from Governor Sherrill dated 
May 17, provided that: 
1. The Board would formally delegate to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago responsibility for 
development and operation of a national Federal 
Reserve transportation system. 
2. The Chicago Bank would be responsible to 
the Board for the effectiveness and efficiency of 
the system, and the Board would appraise the 
performance of the system on the basis of agreed-
upon standards. 
3. The Board, through its Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations, would cooperate with the 
Chicago Reserve Bank and the Committee on Collections 
in developing policy guidelines and performance 
standards for the transportation system. 
4. The Division would review the policies and 
performance of the transportation function period-
ically and would report to the Board. 
5. The Committee on Collections would keep 
abreast of developments, appraise the impact of the 
transportation function on Reserve Bank operations, 
and serve as a clearing house for joint Bank efforts. 
The approach described in Governor Sherrill's memorandum was 
^ERj^oved unanimously, along with a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank 
Chicago refle cting that decision. A copy of the letter is attached 
a s Item No. 3. 
PEFCO. Listed on the consent calendar for -today's meeting, 
withdrawn at the request of Governor Brimmer, was an application 
First National City Corporation, New York, New York, the holding 
c°mPany of First National City Bank, for permission to acquire shares 
o f PEFCO (Private Export Funding Corporation). 

1224 
5/18/71 
-9-
Governor Brimmer observed that this was the first request by 
a bank holding company to make an investment in PEFCO, that he had 
asked the staff to produce a memorandum on certain questions involved, 
and that he would like to defer action on the application until those 
questions had been studied. 
It was agreed to defer consideration of the application until 
the questions raised by Governor Brimmer had been explored by the 
staff. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 
5/18/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of the acquisition of 80 
Per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Hollywood Banlc arid Trust Company,. 
Hollywood, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
( 1 2 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 
cent or more of the voting shares of Hollywood Bank and 
Company, Hollywood, Florida ("Hollywood Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
1 Banking of the State of Florida, and requested his views and 
tec 
ommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
Plication. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 30, 1971 (36 Federal Register 5877), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction, A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
e*pired and all those received have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
e£fect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
aric* managerial resources of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
anc* the convenience and needs of the communities to be served and 
finds that: 
Applicant presently controls 25 banks which hold deposits 
o f $639 million, representing 5.2 per cent of total deposits held 
ky Florida's commercial banks, and is the State's third largest 
banking organization. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1970 and 
re£lect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
th 
e Board through April 30, 1971.) Applicant's acquisition of 
Plywood Bank, with deposits of $58.8 million, would increase 
it:s share of deposits in the State by a relatively slight amount. 
Hollywood Bank operates one office, located in the city 
Hollywood, Broward County, Florida, and primarily serves the 
Plywood metropolitan area (southern portion of Broward County 

122? 
- 3 -
extending southward to the Dade County line). It is the third 
largest of seven banking organizations in the Hollywood area with 
17.9 per cent of area deposits, and the sixth largest of 38 banks 
in the county with 5.5 per cent of total county deposits. [Four 
bank holding companies presently control fifteen of these 38 
banks amounting to 48.9 per cent of the county's total deposits.] 
The two largest banking organizations in Hollywood control 21.8 
and 19.5 per cent of that area's deposits respectively. 
Applicant's nearest existing subsidiary to Bank is 
aPproximately 155 miles away, and Applicant's nearest approved 
subsidiary is located twenty miles away in the city of Miami and 
is separated from Bank by numerous intervening banks. There is no 
significant competition between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries 
a n d, based on the facts of record, the potential for any meaningful 
c°mpGtition between them appears remote. Based on the foregoing, 
fch 
e Board concludes that consummation of the proposal would not 
a significantly adverse effect on competition in any relevant 
a r ea and may have a procompetitive impact in the Hollywood area 
s j n 
C e Hollywood Bank has not been a particularly aggressive institution. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial 
Sources and prospects as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries 
and Rn I 
nnk, a r e regarded as consistent with approval of the application. 
ffiliation with Applicant will enable Hollywood Bank to strengthen 
lts n, nnagement depth by drawing from Applicant's pool of management 

resources for successor management. The Hollywood area continues 
to experience an extremely high rate of growth. While it appears 
that the banking needs of the area are being adequately served, 
Applicant proposes to institute more aggressive loan policies, 
a n d improve trust and other banking services to more effectively 
m e et the needs of the community. It is the Board's judgment that 
c°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
int 
e r est and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
n ings summarized above, that said application be and hereby 
is Q 
PProved, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
a t e d (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
^ate of t-m ^ 
^ 
i s Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
of 
s Order, unless such time be extended for good cause by 
tlle Board 
u 
u» or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant 
° legated authority. 
Si U 
I CJ. .• 
* i 1 
B y °rder of the Board of Governors, May 18, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governor: 
^obertson, Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Aba Gnt aud not voting: Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEaL) 

Iffllp 
j 
. • 
/ 
B O A R D D F G • V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
1229 
Item No. 2 
5/18/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 18, 1971 
f 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In reply to your letters of December 23, 1970, and 
January 25, 1971, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("CMOBC") to acquire from Chase International Invest-
m e n t Corporation, New York, New York: (a) 50,000 shares (100 per 
cent) of the capital stock of The Chase Manhattan Executor and 
^rustee Corporation Ltd., London, England, at a cost of approx-
imately $240,000; (b) 7,038 shares (7.04 per cent) of the capital 
stock of National Investment Bank for Industrial Development, S.A., 
^thens, Greece, at a cost of approximately $760,000; (c) 160,825 
lass B shares (8.04 per cent) of the capital stock of Nigerian 
ndustrial Development Bank Ltd., Lagos, Nigeria, at a cost of 
aPproximately $566,000; and (d) 10,875 Class B shares of Industrial 
an<l Mining Development Bank of Iran, Tehran, Iran, at a cost of 
^Proximately $184,300. The Board also grants consent for CMOBC 
>? Continue to hold the shares of The Chase Manhattan Trust Corporation 
imited ("CMTC"), Nassau, Bahamas, after CMTC acquires from Arcturus 
Vestment and Development Ltd., Montreal, Canada, an additional 
>877 Class B shares of Industrial and Mining Development Bank of 
r an at a cost of approximately $390,000. 
8, 
It is noted that the price to be paid for some of the 
to r e S t 0 
accluired would exceed the historical cost of the shares 
t e a
 
anc* Arcturus Investment and Development Ltd. In view of the 
0
 
S o ns given for the proposed valuation and its immaterial effect 
ancjt^le financial condition statement of The Chase Manhattan Bank 
its subsidiaries, the Board will interpose no objection to the 
°Posed carrying value of the shares. 
1 

li§ ; 
M 
w
M 
1230 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
- 2 -
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the transfers now being approved will be included under the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of The Chase Manhattan Bank and its subsidiaries, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
4hi 
Very truly yours, 
' v 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
/ ' /•.•• 3 .nKv 

123: 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
5/18/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 18, 1971 
Mr. Robert P. Mayo, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
p-0. Box 834 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Dear Mr. Mayo: 
,tj h-:. L p t 'uuW Che uravUivirw: 
vj 
The Board notes the recent action taken by the Conference 
First Vice Presidents concluding that the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago be asked to accept the responsibility for implementing a 
Proposed inter-District transportation function, and it is understood 
that your Bank is willing to undertake this assignment. 
Accordingly, the Board formally delegates to the Federal Re-
r ve Bank of Chicago the responsibility for developing and operating 
national Federal Reserve transportation system with the understand-
ing that: 
1* The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago will be responsible 
to the Board of Governors for the effectiveness and 
efficiency of the system and the Board will appraise 
the performance of the system on the basis of agreed 
upon standards. 
The Committee on Collections, in cooperation with the 
Chicago Bank and the Board, will provide policy guide-
lines and performance standards. 
The Board's Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
will 
review the policies and performance of the trans-
portation function periodically and report to the Board 
on these matters. 
to k e 
is understood that the Committee on Collections will want 
aPpfai^ a ^ r e a s t of the development of the transportation function, 
ing h S° 
•^•InPact on Reserve Bank operations, and serve as a clear-
0us"e fbt joint Bank efforts. 
Very truly yours, 
/S/ ROBERT C. HOLLAND 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
