FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
August 25, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 
-X-

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 25, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Tuttle, Attorney, Legal Division 
The following items were approved unanimously after consider-
ation of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Overseas 
1 
Investment Corporation, New York, New 
York, granting consent to the acquisition 
of shares of FNC-Comercio e Participacoes 
Ltda., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 

8/25/70 
-2-
Item No. 
Letters to the National Air Pollution Control 
2-3 
Administration, Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare, and to the Presidents of 
all Federal Reserve Banks relating to the 
question whether, in the area of air pollu-
tion control, Federal Reserve Banks and 
their branches should be considered private 
institutions or Federal instrumentalities 
subject to the respective applicable laws. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
4 
interposing no objection to the purchase of 
certain property (area about 62,500 square 
feet) across the street from the Houston Branch 
building at a cost of approximately $1,250,000, 
and suggesting preparation of a coordinated 
master plan with respect to long-range develop-
ment of the Branch's facilities. 
Delegation of authority. In a memorandum dated August 21, 
1970, Mr. Hackley recommended that the Board's Rules Regarding Dele-
gation of Authority be amended so as to delegate to a Board member 
designated by the Chairman authority to grant specific consent to 
acquisitions by an Edge corporation of stock of a company chartered 
under the laws of a State of the United States and organized and operated 
for the purpose of financing exports from the United States. Attached 
was a draft notice for publication in the Federal Register. 
Mr. Hackley's recommendation was approved unanimously. A copy 
of the amendment, in the form transmitted to the Federal Register, is 
attached as Item No. 5. 

2430 
8/25/70 
-3-
Penn Central Transportation Company. Mr. Holland reported 
on recent discussions between trustees of the Penn Central Transpor-
tation Company and President Eastburn and First Vice President Melnicoff 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia relating to financing problems, 
including difficulties encountered by the trustees in placing trustee 
certificates. Reference was made by the trustees to the types of assis-
tance authorized under paragraphs 3 and 13 of section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, but the Reserve Bank representatives attempted to play down 
the possibility of such assistance while giving maximum encouragement to 
the seeking of financing from other sources. The trustees indicated their 
desire to keep the Reserve Bank advised of their financing plans, and 
r 
v, 
. • 
, 
1. 
President Eastburn agreed to keep the avenues of communication open. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2431 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
8/25/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 25, 1970 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
» 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 26, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of FNC-Comercio e Participates 
Ltda.("FNC-Comercio"), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at a cost of approx-
imately $15,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of FNC-Comercio by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of FNC-Comercio if FNC-Comercio 
at any time fails to restrict its activities to 
those permissible to a corporation in which a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent of 
the Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, 
or if FNC-Comercio establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to 
FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
FNCOIC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of FNC-Comercio as it may 
require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FNC-
Comercio be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regu-
lation K in the same manner as if FNC-Comercio were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 

# 2 4 3 2 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
• • 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association and 
Memorandum of Association of FNC-Comercio. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
First National City Bank, New York, and its subsidiaries, and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
» 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
8/25/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
D D R R E 5 P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
f ^ L R t s f : 
August 25, 1970 
I 
Dr. John T. Middleton, Commissioner, 
National Air Pollution Control Administration, 
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, 
Rockville, Maryland. 20852 
Dear Dr„ Middleton: 
The Board has received and considered your letter of 
July 15, 1970, relating to correspondence between the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York and the New York Department of Air 
Resources. The correspondence concerns whether the Reserve Bank's 
fuel burning and incineration equipment comply with requirements 
of local law, and sets out the Reserve Bank's position that, upon 
completion of modifications in its fuel burning system and incin-
erator (which modifications have been ordered and should be completed 
in the near future) those installations will meet air pollution 
control standards set by both New York City Law No. 14 and the 
Federal Clean Air Act (42 U.S„C0 1857 et seq.), which has been imple-
mented by Executive Order 11507, dated February 4, 1970. 
Your letter requests a statement of the Board's position 
as to the status of the Federal Reserve Banks (which, including 
their branches, total 36 offices) for the purpose of air pollution 
control, and, if they are to be considered Federal instrumentalities 
for that purpose, suggests that the National Air Pollution Control 
Administration would be able to provide technical advice to the 
Reserve Banks on air pollution control matters. It is the Board's 
view that, while the Federal Reserve Banks are not "departments, 
agencies [or] establishments of the executive branch", the term 
utilized by Executive Order 11507, they are Federal instrumentalities 
and as such should comply with the spirit of that Order. The Board 
therefore feels that a relationship with the National Air Pollution 
Control Administration for the purpose of assuring that the Reserve 
Banks receive technical advice concerning air pollution control would 

2134 
Dr. John T. Middle ton 
- 2 -
be helpful, and appreciates your offer of assistance. It is under-
stood that the Banks will not comply with the reporting requirements 
of Circular A-78 (revised May 18, 1970) of the Office of Management 
and Budget. 
Regarding operating procedures, the Board has requested 
its Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations to coordinate the 
System's program and to maintain contact with your Administration 
to coordinate the System's program. The Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks are being informed of the substance of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
item No. 3 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
8/25/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
T ^ l r e ^ V 
August 25, 1970 
Dear Sir: 
Recent correspondence between a Federal Reserve Bank and a 
municipal air pollution control authority has raised the question 
whether Reserve Banks and their branches should be considered private 
institutions, and hence subject to State and municipal laws in this 
field, or whether they should be considered Federal instrumentalities 
subject to Executive Order 11507, of February 4, 1970, which relates 
to the "Control of Air and Water Pollution at Federal Facilities." 
The municipal authority referred to has sent its file on 
this question to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, 
resulting in a request by the National Air Pollution Control Admin-
istration (NAPCA), an administration existing within HEW for a Beard 
statement of the status of the Reserve Banks for the purposes of air 
pollution control. The Board has replied that the Banks are to be 
regarded as Federal instrumentalities for this purpose and that, even 
though they do not appear subject to the provisions of Executive Order 
11507, as a matter of policy the Banks and their branches should comply 
with Federal standards relating to air pollution control. Accordingly, 
the Board has requested the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
to coordinate the System's air pollution control program, and to secure 
technical assistance from NAPCA with the objective of complying with 
the substantive standards set by Executive Order 11507. It is under-
stood that the Banks will not comply with the reporting requirements 
of the Office of Management and Budget. 
Very truly yours, 
<•" • •••W 7" £ 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

ALK^t--' 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
8/25/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 25, 1970 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
This is in response to the request in your letter of 
May 7, 1970, for approval to negotiate for the purchase of 
additional property acros.s the street from the Houston Branch 
building to secure needed parking space and to hold for future 
expansion. The Board will interpose no objection to the Bank's 
purchase of the proposed property in Houston, as described in 
your letter, at a cost of approximately $1,250,000. 
It is understood that the purchase price indicated is 
an approximate estimate of the property value and, therefore, if 
the negotiated purchase price appreciably exceeds the estimated 
cost, the matter should be submitted to the Board's Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans for review before 
acquisition of the property. 
Regarding future development of the Branch, the Board 
suggests that a coordinated plan be prepared to delineate 
clearly the timing and sequence of projected needs of all the 
Branch's facilities, including land, vault area, office space, 
and the possibility of a future parking structure, and any 
construction contemplated to fill these needs. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Eugene A. Leonard 
Eugene A. Leonard, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2437 
Item No. 5 
8/25/70 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAfc RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OP GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265—RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Consent to Certain Investments by Edge Corporations 
1. Effective immediately, subparagraph (2) of § 265.1a(a) 
is amended to read as follows: • 
jp 
§ 265.1a Specific functions delegated to Board members. 
(a) Any Board member designated by the Chairman is authorised 
under sections 25 and 25(a) of the federal Reserve Act and Parts 211 
and 213 of this chapter (Regulations K and I'): 
* ft * * * 
(2) To grant specific consent to the acquisition, either 
directly or indirectly, by a member bank or an Edge or Agreement corpora-
tion of stock of (1) a company chartered under the laws of a foreign 
country or (2) a company chartered under the laws of a State of the 
United States that is organized and operated for the purpose of financing 
exports from the United States, provided that such acquisition does not 
result, either directly or indirectly, in the acquisition by such bank 
or corporation of effective control of any such company (other than 
. i 
a company performing nominee, fiduciary, or other banking services 
I 
i; 

2138 
- 2 -
incidental to the activities of a foreign branch or affiliate of such 
bank or corporation): and to approve any such acquisition that may 
exceed the limitations in section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
based on such a corporation's capital and surplus. 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to delegate to a member 
of tfre Board authority to grant specific consent to certain stock acqui-
sitions by Edge corporations. 
b. The provisions of section 553.of title 5, United States 
Code, relating to notice and public participation and to deferred 
effective dates, TTere not followed in connection V 7 i t h the adoption of 
this amendment, because the rules contained herein are procedural in 
nature and accordingly do not constitute substantive rules subject to 
the requirements of such section. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 25, 1970. 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 
