MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 3, 1969 

776 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 3, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane If 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Galusha, President, Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis 
Minneapolis building program. The purpose of President 
Galusha's visit was to request, on behalf of the Minneapolis Reserve 
Bank, authorization to call for bids on the excavation work incident 
to construction of the new head office building. As explained by 
Mr. Galusha, the principal reason for separating the excavation and 
general contracts would be to take advantage of the forthcoming summer 
season and thereby minimize the amount of construction work that would 
have to be done during the winter over the seasonal cycle prior to 
completion of the building, hopefully in 1971. The reason for suggesting 
that excavation bids be requested now was that by the time the bids were 
1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

777 
3/3/69 
-2-
openedjin April, there should be available to the Bank a guaranteed 
maximum figure for the construction project. 
The directors of the Bank, President Galusha said, were 
unanimous in wanting to move forward. Their sole concern had to do 
with whether activation of the project at this time would be incompatible 
with the posture of the Federal Reserve System in a period of inflationary-
pressures. If the project was deferred to such an extent that maximum 
advantage could not be taken of the periods of good weather over the 
course of the building program, it appeared that the total cost of the 
project might be increased by as much as $1.5 million. An alternative 
would be to defer the whole project for a year, but there were several 
problems involved in maintenance of the present Bank building, including 
a continuing problem of a fairly serious nature in connection with the 
main vault door that might at some stage require replacement of the 
door at a substantial cost. Also, negotiations for sale of the present 
building would hardly be carried on effectively unless prospective 
purchasers had some idea of the date on which the building would become 
available. 
Board members, in their comments, indicated that they were 
generally sympathetic to President Galusha's proposal, in all the 
circumstances, even though the unique design of the proposed new 
building would be likely to attract more attention to the construction 
than would otherwise be the case. It was brought out also that as a 

778 
3/3/69 
-2-
practical matter it would be almost mandatory to proceed with 
construction of the new building without undue delay once the 
excavation work had been completed. It was noted further that 
bids received on the excavation might turn out to be so high as to 
be unacceptable. 
The discussion concluded with unanimous agreement that the 
Minneapolis Bank should be authorized to call for excavation bids, 
with the understanding that when the bids were received a decision 
on the part of the Reserve Bank and the Board would be necessary on 
whether a contract should be entered into for the excavation work. 
A copy of the telegram sent to the Minneapolis Bank in 
confirmation of the authorization given by the Board is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
President Galusha withdrew from the meeting at this point 
along with Messrs. Farrell and Mcintosh. 
Foreign banking matter. A letter to Bankers International 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to its proposed 
acquisition of shares of Thai Investment & Securities Corporation, 
Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand, was approved unanimously. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of PNB National Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, with The Philadelphia National Bank, also of Philadelphia, 

779 
3/3/69 
-2-
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed 
merger (which was merely a transaction to facilitate acquisition of 
The Philadelphia National Bank by FNB Corporation, a newly-formed 
holding company) would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Planters National Bank and Trust Company, Rocky Mount, 
North Carolina, with PNB National Bank, also of Rocky Mount, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. 
The conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed merger (which 
was merely a transaction to facilitate acquisition of The Planters 
National Bank and Trust Company by FNB Corporation, Rocky Mount, 
North Carolina, a newly-formed holding company) would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Bank of Nichols, Nichols, South Carolina, into Citizens 
Bank of South Carolina, Dillon, South Carolina, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 
conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed merger would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 
First Bankshare Association. The Board authorized issuance of 
an order and statement reflecting its approval on February 17, 1969, of 
the application of First Bankshare Association, Lewiston, Maine, to 

7 8 0 
3/3/69 
-2-
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of 
First-Manufacturers National Bank of Lewiston and Auburn, Lewiston, 
Maine, and The Peoples National Bank of Farmington, Farmington, Maine. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 3. 
Reserve Bank officer salaries. The Board approved unanimously 
the payment of salary to Bruce G. Alexander as Manager of the Personnel 
Department at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at the annual rate 
fixed by the Bank's directors for the period from February 20 through 
December 31, 1969. A copy of the letter sent to the Bank is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously the payment of salary to 
Sheldon W. Stahl as Research Officer and Economist at the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City at the annual rate fixed by the Bank's directors, 
effective as of a date to be determined by the Bank later this year. A 
copy of the letter sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 5. 
Messrs. Cardon, Assistant to the Board; Hexter, General Counsel; 
and Mertz of the Legal Division joined the meeting at this point. 
Report on S. 477. After discussion the Board approved unanimously 
the sending of a letter in the form attached as Item No. 6 to the Bureau 
of the Budget in response to the Bureau's request for views with respect 
to S. 477, a bill "To prohibit the holding by the Secretary of the 
Treasury of stock in any bank, banking institution, or trust company." 

781 
3/3/69 
-2-
The following members of the staff now entered the room: 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan of the Board Members' Offices 
Messrs. Cardon, Hexter, and Mertz withdrew at this point and 
a number of officers and staff members of the Division of Research and 
Statistics and the Division of International Finance joined the meeting. 
Mr. Jasper Hollom of the Bank of England, who was visiting the Board's 
offices, also entered the room. 
Economic review. A staff economic and financial review of the 
kind customarily presented in advance of meetings of the Federal Open 
Market Committee was given, the reports being based to some extent on 
materials that had been compiled in preparation for tomorrow's meeting 
of the Committee. Copies of the relevant documents have been placed in 
the Committee's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, a number of the 
members of the research divisions withdrew from the meeting, as did 
Mr. Hollom. 
Foreign credit restraint program. Governor Brimmer referred 
to the status of discussions within the Government relative to the U.S. 

7 8 2 
3/3/69 
-2-
balance of payments program and to a statement proposed to be issued 
by the President in the near future in which it was hoped to include 
a comment to the effect that the Federal Reserve had reviewed its 
foreign credit restraint program and would be announcing some relaxing 
changes in the guidelines shortly. 
Governor Brimmer noted that the last in his series of regional 
meetings concerning the program was scheduled for Tuesday, March 11, 
and indicated that he would be making recommendations to the Board 
thereafter. He then outlined the nature of the recommendations that he 
presently had in mind. 
The other Board members indicated that they would see no 
objection to inclusion in the Presidential announcement of a reference 
to the foreign credit restraint program along the lines Governor Brimmer 
had mentioned, although it was suggested that he (Governor Brimmer) urge 
the avoidance of language such as to create expectations that changes 
in the guidelines would involve more than a modest relaxation. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point. All 
members of the research divisions who had been present except Mr. Norwood 
of the Division of International Finance also withdrew, as did Messrs. 
Sherman, Broida, Bernard, and Morgan, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

. 
7 * 
3/3/69 
-8-
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Lynch and Plotkin of the Legal Division 
Mr. Ducy and Miss Small of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Burton, Kline, Maguire, and 
Sanford, and Miss McShane of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Commerce Bancshares. After discussion, applications of 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares 
of The Citizens National Bank of Kirksville, Kirksville, Missouri, 
and The Mechanics Bank, St. Joseph, Missouri, were approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that orders and a statement reflecting the 
actions taken would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
In voting to approve the applications, Governor Robertson 
stated that he did so because action under the Bank Holding Company 
Act had been used as an alternative to branching to such an extent 
elsewhere that denial in these cases would be inequitable. 
Union Bank. After discussion, the Board approved unanimously 
an application by Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, for permission 
to merge into itself Oakland Bank of Commerce, Oakland, California, 
with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting the 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Governor Brimmer asked that the record show that he voted 
for approval reluctantly since he believed that it would have been 
preferable for Union Bank to move into the northern California area 
through de novo branching. 

7 8 4 
r J-V : 
;< 
• 
< 
j.s.i 
a ; j. 
3/3/69 
-9-
Regulation F matter. Unanimous approval was given to letters 
to The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio, and to Edward C. Calvert, 
a stockholder of Willowick, Ohio, with respect to the intention of the 
trust company to omit a proposal submitted by Mr. Calvert from the 
proxy statement relating to the 1969 annual meeting of stockholders. 
Copies of the letters are attached as Items 7 and 8, respectively. 
Policy on unionization and collective bargaining. Governor 
Sherrill referred to a draft that had been submitted by Judge Samuel R. 
Pierce, Jr., of a policy for unionization and collective bargaining 
within the Federal Reserve System. He indicated that the next step 
would be discussion with the Committee on Management and Personnel 
of the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks. Then, 
if it seemed desirable, he would seek to arrange a meeting of the 
Board with the Presidents. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary V 

7g5 
Item No. 1 
T E L E G R A M 
3/3/69 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
March 4, 1969. 
GALUSHA - MINNEAPOLIS 
Confirming decision reached on March 3, following your verbal 
presentation of matters pertaining to the Minneapolis building 
program, Boar^ authorizes you to call for bids on the sub-
structure for the proposed new building. 
KENYON 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
3/3/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
. jyjy* 
TO THE BOARD 
March 3,' 1969. 
Bankers International Corporation, 
280 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
February 3, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("BIC") to purchase and hold approximately 12,000 shares 
(60 per cent) of the capital stock of Thai Investment & Securities 
Corporation, Ltd. ("TISCO"), Bangkok, Thailand, at a cost of approxi-
mately $600,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of TISCO by BIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock of TISCO if TISCO at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if TISCO establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Thailand or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to BIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of TISCO as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by TISCO 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if TISCO were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

787 
Bankers International Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board sus-
pends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the 
immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate 
to restrictions on loans granted by TISCO in Thailand in the currency 
of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of TISCO. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation and Bankers Trust Company, and that due consideration is 
being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 
3/3/69 
T 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST BANKSHARE ASSOCIATION, 
Lewiston, Maine, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of not less than oO per cent of the voting 
shares of First-Manufacturers National 
Bank of Lewiston and Auburn, Lewiston, 
Maine, and The Peoples National Bank of 
Farmington, Farmington, Maine. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Bankshare 
Association, Lewiston, Maine, for the Board's prior approval of 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of 
First-Manufacturers National Bank of Lewiston and Auburn, Lewiston, 
Maine, and The Peoples National Bank of Farmington, Farmington, Maine 

7<J3 
-4-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller made no 
objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 23, 1969 (34 Federal Register 1089), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 3rd day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

_ 
7 9 0 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST BANICSHARE ASSOCIATION, LEWISTON, MAINE, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First Bankshare Association, Lewiston, Maine ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of not less than 
Rn 
OU per cent of the voting shares of First-Manufacturers National Bank 
of Lewiston and Auburn, Lewiston, Maine ("First Bank"), and The 
Peoples National Bank of Farmington, Farmington, Maine ("Peoples Bank"). 
First Bank has nine offices and total deposits of $58.9 million. 
Peoples Bank has two offices and total deposits of $6.1 million.U 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
application was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, 
the Comptroller of the Currency. The Comptroller made no objection to 
approval of the application. 
y All bankins data are as of June 29, 196£, unless otherwise noted. 

791 
-2-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. In each case the Board is required to 
take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Consummation 
of Applicant's proposal would result in Applicant's becoming the 
sixth largest banking organization in Maine, the same position now 
held by First Bank; it would control about 6.6 per cent of the total 
deposits held by banks located in the State. 
Eight of First bank's nine offices are located ill Lewiston 
and Auburn, two cities which form a single commercial and population 
center in Androscoggin County, in southwestern Maine; the other is 
located in Lisbon, eight miles southwest 
f Lewiston. First >ank 
is the largest bank in its area in terms of its shares of deposits 

-3-
originating within the area, but competes with local offices of three 
of the four largest banking organizations in the State. 
The main office of Peoples Bank is located in Farmington, 
which is about 43 miles north of Lewiston, in Franklin County; its 
only branch is located 48 miles north of Farmington, in Eustis. It 
competes with one local bank of approximately its size in 
Farmington, and with an office of the largest banking organization in 
Ma ine. 
Although both of the subject banks are strong competitors 
Within their respective market areas, it does not appear, in view of the 
size and strength of competing banking organizations, that the 
affiliation which would result from Applicant's proposal would have 
undue adverse effects on competitors of either bank. 
Present competition between First Bank and Peoples Bank is not 
significant. The areas served by the two banks are not overlapping or 
contiguous, and neither bank derives any significant portion of its 
bus mess from the area served by the other bank or from the area 
intervening that area and the area which it serves. 
Some potential for increased competition between the subject 
banks does exist, since State law would permit either bank to branch 
into the area served by the other or into the intervening area. In 
etermining the adverse weight to be assigned to that consideration, 
however 
j 
, 
» ic is significant that the likelihood that the two banks would 
bran h 
in convergent directions, and thereby become significant competitors, 

7<J3 
-4-
is not suggested either by the past expansion patterns of the two banks 
by the potential economic benefits of such branching, in view of the 
Population of the communities involved and the number of banking 
offices located therein. The fact that several of the largest banking 
organizations in the State are located in or near the areas involved 
Provides additional support for the conclusion that future competition 
would not be substantially lessened by consummation of Applicant's 
Proposal. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that the 
Proposed action will not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of 
any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business of 
banking in any relevant area, and will not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The 
e Projected financial condition of Applicant, a recently formed 
corporation, is satisfactory, as are its management and prospects, which 
are entirely dependent on those of the proposed subsidiary banks. The 
maneial condition of First Bank is satisfactory, its management 
capable, and its prospects favorable. The financial condition and 
management of Peoples Bank are reasonably satisfactory; its prospects, 
however in 
> in an area which has had little economic growth, are regarded 
0nly fair. Applicant's proposal offers a means whereby Peoples Bank 
ai8ht achieve stronger management, operating efficiencies and a somewhat 

7<J3 
-4-
improved service offering, and should thereby have a favorable effect 
on prospects of that bank. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
with approval of Applicant's proposal as they relate to Applicant and 
First Bank, and lend some weight toward approval of the application as 
they relate to Peoples Bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the communities served by First Bank appear to be 
adequately met at present, and Applicant proposes no changes or additional 
services in that area. However, Applicant's proposal, by providing 
increased facility for arranging credit in excess of the capability of 
Peoples Bank, and by providing Peoples Bank with specialized advice 
on trust matters, lending, and daily operations, should result in some 
improvements in the services offered by Peoples Bank. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved, as they relate to the area served by Peoples 
Bank, lend some weight in support of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
March 3, 1969. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
3/3/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Mr. Bruce G. Alexander as Manager of the 
Personnel Department at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
at the rate of $17,000 per annum for the period February 20 
through December 31, 1969. This is the rate fixed by your 
Board of Directors as reported in your letter of February 21, 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
RESf? 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 3, 1969 
1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 
3/3/69 
A 13 O W C B S 
O F F I C I A L 
CC 
T D 
T H E 
B 
March 3, 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. George H. Clay, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
s
$
t
2t t
5 0
to h e
D
F e d e r a i R e s e r v e B a n k ° f ^ - " c u 
: r t h e 
and reported in I 
T™'** 
flMd 
by y°Ur 
Board 
°f Directors 
no reported m your letter of February 13, 1969. 
deten»i„edWbut°winhht ^ 
^ 
e f f e c t i v « 
has not been 
Would vnii 1 
sometime during midsummer of 1969. 
determined? 
"° t l , y 
° f t h e e f f e c t i v e d a t e 
« i-
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

707 
Item No. 6 
BOARD • F G D V E R N D R S 
3/3/69 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O t N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 3, 1969 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Attention: Mr. James M. Frey 
Re: S. 477 (91st Congress) "To prohibit the holding 
by the Secretary of the Treasury of stock in any 
bank, banking institution, or trust company". 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has received your memorandum, dated February 4, 
1969, requesting its views on the above bill, which would amend Sec-
tion 243 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 1003) to forbid any per- ^ 
son appointed to the office of Secretary of the Treasury, or Treasurer ^ 
to "hold stock in any bank, banking institution, or trust company, . . . 
Section 243 provides criminal penalties for violation. 
The Board notes that the proposed amendment would apply to 
the Secretary of the Treasury and the Treasurer but would not extend to 
Under Secretaries, Assistant Secretaries, and other major officials of 
the Department of the Treasury. There appears to be no reason why the 
bill should be thus limited to these two of:E:Lcials tDther than that 
they were designated in a statute which was approved (in its original 
form) simultaneously with the creation of the Department in 1789. 
The Board is aware of the possibility of conflicts of inter-
est in government officials and employees but is of the 
a better approach would be to examine and deal with the general P^blem 
of potential conflicts of interest, rather than the random enactment 
of limited prohibitions regarding particular officials. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

798 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 7 
3/3/69 
Of GOV^ 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A-
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
f^ALRE^, 
March 3, 1969. 
Mr. James W. Bates, Secretary, 
The Cleveland Trust Company, 
916 Euclid Avenue, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Bates: 
Reference is made to your letters of January 31, 1969, and 
February 24, 1969, with enclosures, stating the intention of The 
Cleveland Trust Company to omit a proposal submitted by Edward C. 
Calvert, a stockholder, for inclusion in the bank's proxy statement 
relating to its 1969 annual meeting of stockholders. 
Mr. Calvert's proposal is as follows: 
"Resolved, that the Management and Board of Directors 
annually consider ways and means of disposing of, in an 
orderly manner, the stock of The Cleveland Trust Company 
itself held for the account of the trusts administered by 
the Bank." 
The Board has concluded that Mr. Calvert's proposal (1) is 
not a proper subject for action by stockholders under applicable law 
and (2) consists of a recommendation or request that the management 
take action with respect to a matter relating to the conduct of the 
ordinary business operations of the bank. Accordingly, such proposal 
appears to fall within the exceptions provided by sections 206.5(k)(3)(i) 
and (ii) of Federal Reserve Regulation F, and therefore may be omitted 
from the management's proxy statement. 
Mr. Calvert is being advised directly of this determination. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

7 9 9 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
3/3/69 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C IAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 3, 1969 
Mr. Edward C. Calvert, 
30104 Barjode Road, 
Willowick, Ohio. 44904 
Dear Mr. Calvert: 
Reference is made to the stockholder proposal contained 
in your letter dated January 4, 1969, to The Cleveland Trust 
Company submitted to the bank for inclusion in management's proxy 
statement in connection with the 1969 annual meeting of the bank's 
stockholders. 
By letter of this date the Board is advising Cleveland 
Trust Company that it may omit your proposal from management's 
proxy statement on the grounds (1) that it is not a proper subject 
for action by stockholders under applicable law and (2) that it 
consists of a recommendation or request that the management take 
action with respect to a matter relating to the conduct of the 
ordinary business operations of the bank. Accordingly, such pro-
posal would appear to fall within the exceptions provided by 
sections 206.5(k)(3)(i) and (ii) of Federal Reserve Regulation F. 
In connection with its consideration of this matter, the 
Board also considered your request of February 15, 1969, for a 
hearing and has denied such request on the ground that a hearing 
would serve no useful purpose. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
