Minutes for March 2, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will, indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

81.5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 2, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Retirement System. President Wayne, as Chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
was present to discuss with the Board two pending reports by the Retire-
ment Committee to the Executive Committee. The first related to a plan 
for supplementing the allowances of retired members of the Retirement 
System. The second related to a plan that would permit special service 
retirement prior to age 65 without full actuarial discount. 
At the beginning of today's meeting President Wayne reviewed 
the status of a proposed over-all study of the benefits of the Retire-
ment System on a comparative basis and mentioned that consideration of 
two other questions (relating to Retirement System investment policy 
and relationships with Northern Trust Company) was being held in abey-
ance until such time as the results of the aforementioned over-all study 
became available. 

793 
3/2/67 
-2-
President Wayne then turned to the two specific proposals of 
the Retirement Committee, described them in detail, and stated that his 
purpose in requesting a meeting with the Board at this time was to deter-
mine whether the proposals appeared generally acceptable before consid-
eration of them proceeded further on a formal basis within prescribed 
Retirement System channels. He noted, among other things, that the 
cost of the program to supplement the allowances of retired members had 
been estimated by the Actuary to be $8,550,000 as a one-time payment, 
and that this cost was proposed to be covered by using funds of the 
Retirement System (a part of the so-called "excess earnings"). As to 
the cost of the plan that would permit special service retirement prior 
to age 65 without full actuarial discount, there was no experience on 
which to base a judgment. Based on certain assumptions, however, the 
Actuary computed an estimated accrued liability of approximately 
$6,400,000 as of February 28, 1966. Here also, it was contemplated 
that funds of the Retirement System would be used to discharge the 
accrued liability. 
On the basis of President Wayne's presentation, it was indicated 
that the Board would be inclined to approve the proposal to supplement 
the allowances of retired members of the Retirement System if appropriate 
actions to adopt such a program, effective July 1, 1967, should be taken 
by the Board of Trustees of the Retirement System and presented to the 
Board of Governors for approval. Governor Maisel indicated, however, 

4 
3/2/67 
-2-
that he felt strongly that it would be a mistake to deal with the matter 
in terms of a cost-of-living concept. Instead, he believed that the 
proposal should be explained on the basis of the increase in average 
income during the period since the persons affected had retired, and 
also perhaps by reference to the fact that the Civil Service Retirement 
System had supplemented the retirement allowances of its pensioners on 
seven occasions since 1949. 
It was likewise indicated that the Board members looked favor-
ably in principle on the proposal that would permit special service 
retirement prior to age 65 without full actuarial discount. Two mem-
bers of the Board (Governors Mitchell and Brimmer) expressed reserva-
tions about using funds of the Retirement System to discharge the 
accrued liability, their position being that the plan should be viewed 
principally as a useful tool to management in the administration of 
personnel policy. It was noted, however, that the program was one much 
desired by the elected Trustees of the Retirement System. It was also 
noted that the plan had been formulated by the Retirement Committee in 
the light of advice received from the Actuary and Counsel for the Retire-
ment System concerning implications of the rules of the Internal Revenue 
Service. 
President Wayne then withdrew from the meeting. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to 
the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report 

795 
3/2/67 
-2-
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The 
Farmers National Bank and Trust Company of Boyertown, Boyertown, Penn-
sylvania, into Peoples Trust City Bank, Reading, Pennsylvania. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Peoples Trust 
City Bank, Reading, and The Farmers National Bank and Trust 
Company of Boyertown would eliminate some existing and poten-
tial competition between the two banks and increase the con-
centration of area deposits held by the three large Reading 
banks. The over-all competitive effect of the proposed 
merger would be adverse. 
Application of Lincoln First Group (Items 1-4). There had been 
distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on January 16, 1967, of the application of Lincoln First Group, 
Inc., Roches ter, New York, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of substantially all of the voting shares of four banks in 
the State of New York. A dissenting statement by Governor Robertson had 
also been prepared. 
The issuance of the order, statement, and dissenting statement 
was authorized. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as 
Items 1. 2, and 3, respectively. A copy of the letter sent to the 
applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Pursuant to the recommen-
dation in a memorandum from the Division of 
Research and Statistics, Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board the 

81.5 
3/2/67 
-5-
appointment of David T. Hulett as Economist 
in that Division, with basic annual salary 
at the rate of $12,873, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty, it being understood 
that the Board would pay the cost of moving 
his household goods from Watertown, Massa-
chusetts, to Washington, D. C., and trans-
portation for Mr. Hulett and his family 
from Watertown to Washington. 

81.5 
Item No. 1 
3/2/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
LINCOLN FIRST GROUP, INC., 
Rochester, New York, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of substantially all of the voting 
shares of four banks in the State of 
New York. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1), as amended by Public Law 89-485), and section 222.4(a)(1) 
of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)(1)), an application 
by Lincoln First Group, Inc., Rochester, New York, for the Board's 
prior approval of action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of substantially all of the voting 
shares of each of the following New York banks: Lincoln Rochester 
Trust Company, Rochester; Lincoln National Bank and Trust Company 
of Central New York, Syracuse, a proposed new bank into which would 
be merged Lincoln National Bank and Trust Company of Central New York, 
Syracuse; First-City National Bank of Binghamton, N. Y., Binghamton, 
a proposed new bank into which would be merged First-City National 

8 
- 10 -
Bank of Binghamton, N. Y. Binghamton, and The First National 
Bank of Jamestown, Jamestown, into which would be merged 
The Firot National Bank of Jamestown, Jamestown. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board 
gave written notice of receipt of the application to the New 
York State Superintendent of Banks and the Comptroller of the 
Currency and requested their views and recommendations. As 
discussed in the Statement accompanying this Order, the New 
York State Banking Board advised this Board of its action, 
following a recommendations of the Superintendent of Banks, 
approving an application filed by Lincoln First Group, Inc., 
pursuant to the New York Banking Law involving the same proposal 
submitted to this Board. The Comptroller of the Currency also 
recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published 
in the Federal Register on October 6, 1966 (31 Federal Register 
13017), providing an opportunity for interested persons to 
submit comments and views with respect to the proposed trans-
action. A copy of the application was forwarded to the Depart-
ment of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing comments 
and views has expired and all those received have been con-
sidered by the Board * 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in 
the Board's Statement of this date, that said application be 

799 
- 10 -
and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition so 
approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of the Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 2nd day of 
March., 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and Governors 
Shepardson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 
3/2/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION OF 
LINCOLN FIRST GROUP, INC., ROCHESTER, NEW YORK, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Lincoln First Group, Inc., Rochester, New York ("Appli-
cant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ("the Act"), an 
application for approval of action to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of substantially all of the 
voting shares of the following New York banks: Lincoln Rochester 
Trust Company, Rochester, New York ("Lincoln Rochester"); Lincoln 
National Bank and Trust Company of Central New York, Syracuse, 
New York ("Lincoln Syracuse"), a proposed new bank; First-City 
National Bank of Binghamton, N. Y., Binghamton, New York ("FNB 
Binghamton"), a proposed new bank; and The First National Bank 
of Jamestown, Jamestown, New York ("Jamestown National"), a 
proposed new bank (collectively referred to as "Applicant's 
Group"). Applications have simultaneously been filed with the 
Comptroller of the Currency for permission to merge Lincoln 
National Bank and Trust Company of Central New York, First-City 

- 2 -
801 
National Bank of 
N. Y., and The First National Br.nk 
of Jamestown into the respective newly organized national banks 
bearing the same name, the new banks to retain the titles and 
locations of the existing banks. 
1/ 
As of December 31, 1965, 
Applicant's proposed sub-
sidiaries, one of which is located in each of New York Banking 
Districts 6, 7, 8, and 9, held deposits aggregating $961 million 
and operated 64 offices in 13 of the 29 counties in the four 
Districts. Lincoln Rochester, the largest of Applicant's Group, 
is a State-chartered bank; and the other three banks are national 
banks. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, inasmuch as both 
a State and nationally chartered banks are involved, notice of 
receipt of the application was given to, and views and recom-
mendations requested of, the New York State Superintendent of 
Banks and the Comptroller of the Currency. Pursuant to Article 
I1I-A of the New York Banking Law, an application for approval 
had been filed with the New York Banking Board involving the 
same proposal. The Superintendent of Banks recommended 
favorably to the Banking Board on Applicant's proposal, and 
the application was approved by the Banking Board. A copy of 
the Superintendent's written recommendation to the Banking 
1/ Banking data are as of this date, unless otherwise noted. 

- 10 -
802 
Board, containing his reasons for favoring approval of the 
proposal, was transmitted to the Board. The Comptroller of the 
Currency also recommended approval of the application accompanied 
by a statement supporting that recommendation. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that 
would result in a monopoly, or would be in furtherance of any 
combination or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any part of the United States. Nor 
may the Board approve any other proposed acquisition, the effect 
of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which 
in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by 
the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served. In each case the Board 
is required to take into consideration the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. 
Competitive effects of proposed transaction. - Applicant 
would be the 11th largest commercial banking organization in 
New York State, controlling 64 banking offices and approximately 
$961 million of deposits, representing about 3 per cent of the 

- 10 -
803 
commercial banking offices in the State and about 1.5 per cent 
of the $64.3 billion of deposits held by them. Lincoln Rochester 
($616 million deposits) is the largest of the proposed sub-
sidiaries in Applicant's Group, ranking 14th in deposit size 
among the State's commercial banking organizations. 
As earlier noted, each of the four proposed subsidiary 
banks is located in a different Banking District. The four-
District area encompassing the four banks covers most of western 
and central New York State. Within this area, the proposed 
holding company would be the second largest commercial banking 
organization and would control 11 per cent of the offices and 
16 per cent of the $6.2 billion of deposits controlled by the 
commercial banks in this area. If the offices and deposits of 
the mutual savings banks located in the four-District area are 
considered (58 offices had $3.5 billion of deposits), Applicant's 
system would control 10 per cent of the offices and deposits 
in the four-District area. In the Board's judgment, neither in 
regard to the State as a whole nor within the aforementioned 
four-District area would Applicant's control of banking offices 
and resources be of such size or character as to preclude approval 
of the system proposed. Further, in any area smaller than a 
combination of the four Districts involved, the proposal would 
have no effect on concentration. In each banking District and 
2 / 
•• 
each primary service area involved, consummation of Applicant's 
27 The area from which the proposed subsidiary banks draw, 
respectively, at least 75 per cent of their deposits of indivi-
duals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPG deposits"). 

- 10 -
804 
proposal would not change the existing concentration of com-
mercial bank deposits, and the number of competitors would 
remain the same. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation 
of Applicant's proposal on existing and potential competition, 
the Board finds that such considerations present no bar to 
approval of the application. The primary service area of each 
of the proposed subsidiary banks appears to be coextensive x^ith 
the head office county, except that the primary service area 
of Jamestown National appears to be the southern half of Chautauqua 
County. At least 70 miles separate each of the head office 
cities of the four banks involved. In no instance does the 
primary service area of a bank in Applicant's Group overlap 
that of another of the Group's banks; and T^ith but one exception, 
no bank in the Group has an office within 20 miles of an office 
of any other of the Group's banks. Analysis of the origins 
of the deposits, loans, and trust accounts of the proposed 
subsidiaries reflects an insignificant amount of overlap between 
or among the four banks in Applicant's Group; such overlap as 
does exist appears to represent only convenience accounts. It 
is reasonable to conclude that there is virtually no existing 
competition between or among the proposed subsidiaries. 
In the light of the geographical locations of the banks 
in Applicant's Group, the distances separating them, and in view 
of the banking laws of New York State that provide "home office" 

- 10 -
805 
protection and restrict branching or merging outside the home 
Banking District, there is little prospect that, absent this 
proposal, effective competition between or among the Applicant's 
banks would develop. Accordingly, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposal would not have a significant effect 
upon potential competition between or among the proposed subsidiaries. 
The four-District area where the proposed subsidiaries 
are located had, in 1960, a population of over four million. The 
area's diversified economy is supported by industrial, commercial, 
and agricultural enterprises as well as by a number of educational 
institutions. The Superintendent of Banks reports that the 
western and central portions of the State have grown faster in 
population and employment since 1950 than the upstate area 
generally, or the State as a whole, and that the area is expected 
to experience continued population growth and economic expansion. 
The three largest commercial banking organizations in 
the four-District area control 39 per cent of the offices and 
53 per cent of the deposits of commercial banks; and consumma-
tion of the proposal herein would raise each percentage by 
6 per cent. While such increase in the present concentration 
of commercial banking resources would, viewed without reference 
to the existing area banking structure, weigh somewhat against 
approval of Applicant's proposal, the Board finds persuasive 
the assertions made by Applicant and the conclusions of the 

806 
- 10 -
bank supervisory authorities whose views x^ere solicited that 
consummation of the proposal herein will stimulate rather than 
lessen competition within the four-District area involved. 
Marine Midland Corporation ("Marine Midland"), a bank 
holding company, operating six banks with 154 banking offices and 
almost $2 billion of deposits in the four-District are*, is an 
apparently dominant factor in the commercial banking business 
conducted by the 130 commercial banks located in the fcur-District 
area. Marine Midland controls about 25 per cent of the area's 
commercial banking offices and 32 per cent of the deposits. The 
second largest commercial banking organization in the four-
District area is Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, Buffalo, 
an independent bank. It appears to the Board that the affilia-
tion proposed would improve the competitive position of Applicant's 
banks vis-a-vis Marine Midland's banks, two of which are located 
in the Sixth and Ninth Districts, and one each in the Seventh 
and Eighth Districts. It further appears that Applicant's Group 
will also be able to offer more effective competition than that 
now offered by the four banks individually to the large New York 
City banks (two of which are presently affiliated with upstate 
banks in New York City-based holding company systems) that seek 
business originating upstate, particularly the business of 
large commercial customers who require and seek wholesale banking 
services. 

307 
- 8 -
The significance of the apparent concentration of 
banking resources in the four-District area is further lessened 
by the facts in the record showing that, within this area, there 
are also 27 mutual savings banks with deposits of $3.5 billion, 
71 savings and loan associations with $1.1 billion of accounts, 
and various other financial institutions with substantial funds 
tbat offer services that are in competition with many commercial 
banking and trust services. 
Analysis of the competitive position of each of the 
proposed subsidiaries within its own District indicates that no 
substantial anticompetitive effect would result froa forckfcion 
of the proposed holding company. In the Sixth District, First 
Trust and Deposit Company, Syracuse (with deposits of $225 million) 
ranks first among the 27 commercial banks; the Marine Midland 
banks rank second and sixth with combined deposits of $343 
million; and Applicant's bank with deposits of approximately 
$177 million ranks third. In the Seventh District, the Marine 
Midland bank ranks first among the 34 commercial banks and is 
about 1-1/2 times as large as Applicant's bank which ranks 
second with deposits of $113 million. In the Eighth District, 
where there are 32 commercial banks, Applicant's bank ranks first 
with deposits of $616 million; the Marine Midland bank ranks 
second with deposits of $303 million; and Security Trust Company, 
Rochester, the lead bank in a bank holding company system 
(Security New York Corporation) ranks third. In the Ninth 

808 
• 9 * 
If 
District, where there are 37 commercial banks, 
Marine Midland 
is the largest banking organization; it has two banks with over 
$1 billion in combined deposits. In Jamestown, the Ninth 
District city where Apflicant's bank is located, the Marine 
Midland bank has $75 million of deposits, whereas each of its 
two main competitors, one of which is in Applicant's Group, has 
about $55 million of deposits. 
In each of the four primary service areas of Applicant's 
banks, as well as in the Rochester, Sytacuse, and Binghamton 
Standard Metropolitan Statistical areas, there are numerous 
commercial banks of various sizes, offering competition to 
Applicant's banks. As earlier noted, the affiliation proposed 
would not reduce the numbet of competitors nor the number of 
banking alternatives available to the public* With respect to 
services usually offered by large banks, more immediately acces-
sible alternatives would be provided by the affiliation herein 
proposed» 
In the Jamestown area, competition would be stimulated 
through the strengthened position of Jamestown National; and 
competition would be somewhat increased also in the Binghamton 
area by virtue of the fact that the affiliation would remove 
"homlB office" protection from FNB Binghamton. The Board con-
cludes that the proposed system affiliation would have no 
significantly adverse effect on competing banks in any of the 
primairy service areas concerned. 
3? Adjusted for July 1966 merger of State Bank of Kenmore with 
Bank of Buffalo, 

809 
- 10 -
Summarizing, the Board concludes, on the basis of the 
record presented, that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
would not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any 
combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any relevant area of the State. The 
Board further concludes that formation of Applicant's holding 
company would not substantially lessen competition, tend to 
create a monopoly, nor operate in restraint of trade in any 
relevant area. Rather, as expressed by the Superintendent of 
Banks, the subject proposal may reasonably be viewed as a healthy 
development in that it would combine the aspects of a "regional 
holding company" with those of a "predominantly upstate holding 
company" affording to each of the three smaller banks a strengthened 
competitive position within its o\m District, without adverse 
effect on their intra-District smaller competitors. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects.-
Applicant has no financial or operating history. However, its 
pro forma financial condition and its future prospects are con-
sidered satisfactory in the light of the satisfactory condition 
and prospects of the proposed subsidiaries and the fact that 
the area concerned may be expected to experience favorable 
business conditions and a continued growth in population. Appli-
cant's stated intention to strengthen the capital accounts of 
the subsidiary banks, as circumstances warrant, and its ability 
to do so, weigh somewhat in favor of approval. 

81.5 
- n -
Applicant's management, composed of senior officers 
of the subsidiary banks, is considered qualified and experienced. 
It is reasonable to expect that the banks will be maintained 
in a sound financial condition under Applicant's control. 
The Board concludes that the banks, operating as sub-
sidiaries of Applicant, will continue their records of sound 
operations, and that their prospects are favorable. Accordingly, 
considerations related to the banking factors are consistent 
with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - Applicant 
has not contended that the major banking requirements in any of 
the areas concerned are presently unserved. However, Applicant 
proposes to offer, through the three smaller banks, a variety 
of new or expanded services, including services related to 
international commercial transactions and municipal financing, 
and the more sophisticated of computer, trust, investment, and 
loan services. In so doing, Applicant would provide additional 
alternative sources for these types and degrees of services, 
resulting in some added convenience for the customers of the 
proposed subsidiaries, particularly for the medium-sized and 
large businesses, and enabling the subsidiary banks to become 
more competitive in their local areas. In view of the continuing 
commercial and industrial development in the upstate area, 
generating increasing demands for large lines of credit and 
sources of municipal financing, the aforestated likely results 
of Applicant's proposal are found by the Board to weigh toward 
approval thereof. 

811 
- 12 -
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors 
set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
March 2, 1967. 

Item No. 
3/2/67 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
The evidence of record fails to persuade me that the 
Board's action in approving the formation of Lincoln First Group, Inc., 
W H 1 result in any measurable benefit to the communities affected; 
0n the contrary, the joining together of four banks in upstate New 
Y°rk, three of which hold deposits in excess of $100 million, one of 
which, with deposits of $600 million, is the largest bank in the Eighth 
New York State Banking District, represents one more giant step in the 
Process, inherently inimical to the public interest, of concentrating 
a few organizations the banking resources of the State. 
In April 1966, I joined in the unanimous action of this Board 
lri approving the formation of Security New York State Corporation, a 
holding company system composed of two upstate New York banks, one a 
$260 million bank and the other an $11 million bank. At the same time 
* dissented from Board action approving the formation of two New York 
Cl-ty-based bank holding companies, each of which involved the joining 
tQge.ther of a muLti-billion dollar New York City bank with upstate in-
stitutions having in excess of $100 million of deposits. Whereas I 
c°ncluded that the Security Corporation proposal would result in in-
c a s e d competition for larger upstate banking institutions, and would 
r&sult in the rendition of improved and expanded services to certain 
CUst-omers of the upstate banks involved, I found no similar public 
^Qefita offered by the two New York City-based holding company proposal 
tllat would overweigh the anticompetitive consequences inherent in their 

813 
-2-
formations. Accordingly, I concluded that the Board's action with 
respect to the one case was wholly consistent with the clear intent 
of 
Congress in enacting the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and that 
its actions with respect to the two latter cases were contrary to that 
intent. 
Once again I am compelled to dissent from the findings and 
action of the Board, As in my previous departure frcm the Board's 
aPproval actions with respect to the New York City-based holding com-
panies, X am unable to find in the record before the Board convincing 
evidence of any existing unserved major banking needs in the area served 
by 
the four banks involved. As presently constituted, most certainly 
three, and probably all four, of the proposed subsidiary banks can re-
spond to any reasonable need for banking services arising in their respec-
tive areas, either alone or through correspondent bank participations. 
Each of the four banks has experienced sound growth, and the 
economic outlook for their respective service areas augurs for similarly 
sound future growth and expansion of operations. Government should not 
give its blessing to the harnessing together of large institutions, 
simply for the purpose of creating an institution even more powerful, 
unless there is convincing evidence that the public will benefit from 
this increased power. This Is especially true of banks, in view of the 
e*tent of their power and influence at all levels of economic activity. 
l n my judgment the public is best served by a banking system in which 
there are many viable units competing with each other to serve public 

814 
-2-
needs. Hence, I look with apprehension on the current trend in many 
areas to concentrate banking power in a few large organizations against 
which the remaining small ones cannot effectively compete and must of 
necessity, sooner or later, submit to takeovers. 
Consummation of this proposal will, of course, eliminate all 
Possibility of future competition between and among the four banks that, 
°n the basis of the banks' past and prospective growth rates, is reason-
ably anticipated to develop. The potential for such future competition 
is 
strongly reflected in the proposal of the State Superintendent of 
Banks that existing district line restrictions against bank expansion be 
di 
ssolved in favor of a two-district structure that would enable upstate 
banks, such as the four banks here involved, to expand their operations 
throughout upstate New York. 
Inasmuch as I find Applicant's proposal to have substantially 
adverse competitive consequences with little or no public benefit, I 
v°uld deny the application. 
March 2, 1967, 

81.5 
Ml RES*;,* 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
3/2/67 
AODRC8S OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 2, 1967 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Lincoln First Group, Inc., 
183 Main Street East, 
Rochester, New York 14603. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of Lincoln First Group, Inc., to become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of substantially 
all of the voting shares of the following New York banks: Lincoln 
Rochester Trust Company, Rochester; Lincoln National Bank and Trust 
Company of Central New York, Syracuse; First-City National Bank of 
Binghamton, N. Y., Binghamton; and The First National Bank of 
Jamestown, Jamestown. The Board's Order, accompanying Statement, 
and press release are enclosed, together with the Dissenting 
Statement of Governor Robertson. 
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Order 
requiring that the acquisition be consummated no later than three 
months from the date of the Order, advice of the fact of consum-
mation of the acquisition should be given in writing to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. 
In the Board's determination of this matter, discussion 
was had with respect to the need for additional capital in some 
of the proposed subsidiary banks, particularly in the Lincoln 
Rochester Trust Company. Your application indicates the proposed 
holding company contemplates the issuance of $15 million of capital 
debentures, some of the proceeds of which would be used to strengthen 
the capital structures of the subsidiary banks. In approving Lincoln 
First Group's application, the Board has relied on your stated in-
tention that the banks' capital positions would be improved. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
End osure 
