Minutes for 
December 7, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
adv ise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4735 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 7, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 11:10 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Byrne, Director of Data Processing 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Chief Federal Reserve 
Examiner 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Winkler, Secretary, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Shull and Cleaver of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Craig, Noble, and Via of the Legal 
Division 

' 4736 
12/7/67 
.. 
-2-
Messrs. Lyon, McClintock, Maguire, and White, 
and Miss McShane of the Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Ring of the Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Buckley of the Division of Data Processing 
Additions to condition report. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated December 1, 1967, from the Division of Data Processing 
recommending that the Board request approval of the Bureau of the Bud-
get for the addition of two items to the loan schedule on the reverse 
of the condition report form to provide for collection of information 
on the amount of credit extended under (1) retail (charge account) 
credit card plans, and (2) check credit, revolving credit, and related 
plans. These items would be collected at the December and June call 
dates beginning with the December 1967 call and would benchmark the 
monthly consumer credit series. The condition report forms of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency were being similarly revised. Therefore, if the forms for use 
by State member banks were changed as recommended, this new credit 
information would be collected from all insured banks. 
Following Governor Brimmerfs observation that the proposed 
changes had been cleared with the System's Task Force on Bank Credit 
Cards, the Board approved unanimously the transmittal of the proposed 
changes to the Bureau of the Budget for approval. 
Local destruction of unfit Federal Reserve notes (Item No. 1). 
In a letter dated November 6, 1967, the Board requested the Federal 

* 4737 
12/7/67 
.. 
-3-
Reserve Banks to comment on a Treasury Department proposal that consid-
eration be given to extending to unfit $20, $50, and $100 Federal 
Reserve notes the local destruction procedures already being followed 
with respect to unfit $1, $5, and $10 notes. Under the proposal, 
destruction of the $20 notes would utilize a percentage verification 
of either 40 or 50 per cent (compared with the present 20 per cent for 
$10 notes and 10 per cent for $5 notes), while destruction of $50 and 
$100 Federal Reserve notes would utilize a 100 per cent verification. 
The Division of Bank Operations, in a memorandum dated Novem-
ber 30, 1967, reported that all of the Reserve Banks were in agreement 
with the Treasuryfs proposal and none of them felt there would be any 
problem in undertaking the additional local destruction. Although two 
Banks preferred a 50 per cent verification of $20 notes, a majority 
favored a 40 per cent verification, as did the Division of Bank Opera-
tions. It was noted that, if the Board approved the procedure, the 
Treasury planned to issue the necessary instructions to the Reserve 
Banks effective January 1, 1968. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to the Treasury Depart-
ment, in the form attached hereto as Item No. 1, advising that the 
Board was agreeable to the extension of local destruction procedures 
to unfit $20, $50, and $100 Federal Reserve notes. 
Real estate purchase by Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (Item 
No. 2). There had been circulated a memorandum from the Division of 

• 4738 
12/7/67 
.. 
-4-
Bank Operations dated November 20, 1967, regarding a proposed purchase 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond of real estate adjoining the 
head office of that Bank. 
Mr. Farrell explained that the proposed purchase would complete 
the Reserve Bank's holding of the entire southern half of the block in 
which the Bank was located, which could be beneficial to the Bank 
whether the property was used in conjunction with future Bank building 
construction or sold in the event the Bank were relocated. The cost 
of the land at about $32 a square foot seemed to be in line with recent 
sales of other parcels in the downtown area of Richmond. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter in the form attached 
as Item No. 2 authorizing the purchase of the property by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond at a price of $85,000. 
Requests for postponement of change to reserve city status. 
There had been distributed memoranda dated November 3, December 4, and 
December 5, 1967, from the Division of Bank Operations regarding re-
quests for postponement of the dates of change to reserve city status 
by United States National Bank, San Diego, California; Southern Cali-
fornia First National Bank, also of San Diego; and City National Bank, 
Beverly Hills, California. 
With respect to United States National Bank, on January 7, 
1966, the Board denied a request for permission to carry reduced 
reserves but deferred the effective date for the higher level of 

* 4739 
12/7/67 
.. 
-5-
reserves to July 7, 1966. Subsequently, the Board again postponed the 
effective date to January 4, 1968. At the time of the last postpone-
ment, and also at a conference with representatives of the bank at the 
Board's offices on August 22, 1967, the bank had been advised that no 
further extensions would be granted unless there were significant 
changes in existing circumstances. In a letter dated October 6, 1967, 
the bank requested an additional extension of about two years. This 
request was based on material presented to evidence that the bank was 
not in fact now doing a reserve city business because of delays in 
expanding its Los Angeles operations. Such delays had grown out of 
the much larger than anticipated losses on loans in the small bank 
acquired in downtown Los Angeles, the poor location of the downtown 
office thus acquired, and unexpected resignations of persons expected 
to manage and develop that office. The Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco advised in a letter dated October 23, 1967, that the bank 
did not yet have the location nor was it engaged in the type of busi-
ness characteristic of a reserve city bank and that circumstances had 
delayed its becoming an effective influence in the Los Angeles finan-
cial community. 
As to Southern California First National Bank of San Diego, 
a request had been submitted under date of August 4, 1967, for permis-
sion to continue to maintain reserves at the level of banks not located 
in reserve cities, in anticipation of the San Diego bank's purchase of 

4710 
12/7/67 
.. 
-6-
Heritage-Wilshire National Bank, which had two offices in an outlying 
section of Los Angeles. This request was denied by the Board on 
October 4, 1967, with the date of change to reserve city status post-
poned until April 11, 1968. In its request for a review of the Board's 
decision regarding its reserve city status, the bank stated that al-
though it had realized it would technically become a reserve city bank 
through the purchase of the Los Angeles bank, its earlier examination 
of the factors determining reserve requirements caused it to believe 
that the Board would permit the bank to continue to maintain the 
reserves required of banks not located in reserve cities if the merger 
were consummated. It now asked that the Board grant an exemption from 
carrying city bank reserves for a period of one year and that it not 
be foreclosed from reapplying for such exemption at the end of the 
year. The bank felt that it could not prudently carry reserve city 
bank reserves and that its alternative to a continuing exemption from 
that level would have to be to relocate the two branches outside the 
Los Angeles city limits, sell them, or close them. 
City National Bank of Beverly Hills was denied permission by 
the Board to carry reduced reserves on January 7, 1966, because of the 
continuing expansion over a period of several years of the bank's 
operations into Los Angeles, including the location of a new office 
building in the downtown financial area. The effective date for reserve 
°ity status was deferred originally to July 7, 1966, but subsequently 

• 4741 
12/7/67 
.. 
-7-
the Board postponed that date to January 4, 1968. The bank based its 
current request for permission to carry reduced reserves on the fact 
that its income had been curtailed because of additional costs relat-
ing to the construction of the new building in the downtown financial 
district, the establishment of a downtown computer service, and other 
factors. 
In connection with the request of Southern California First 
National Bank, Mr. Farrell noted that Director of Examinations Solomon 
had telephoned the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco in July 1967 
to call attention to the fact that acquisition of Heritage-Wilshire 
National Bank would subject Southern California First National to 
reserves at the reserve city level, notwithstanding which the bank 
proceeded to effect the merger in October. The bank now wanted to 
discuss the matter with Board representatives, and President Swan was 
of the opinion that it was important to give them this opportunity, 
particularly since there was unrest among the stockholders of the bank 
and the management was aware that United States National had conferred 
with the Board's staff. 
As to City National Bank's request for permission to continue 
to maintain reduced reserves, Mr. Farrell thought it was probably 
inspired by that bank's knowledge that the two San Diego banks had 
made similar requests. 
Mr. Farrell als o noted that the San Francisco Reserve Bank 
recommended that no extension be granted to City National Bank, that 

• 4742 
12/7/67 
.. 
-8-
United States National Bank be given an extension to July 1968, and 
that Southern California First National Bank receive a six-month exten-
sion to October 1968. He commented that as a matter of equity it would 
seem desirable to accede to the request of Southern California First 
National Bank to present its request to Board representatives orally. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that in cases such as this 
banks should be given an opportunity to discuss their requests before 
the Board reached a decision, and Governor Mitchell suggested that it 
would be desirable to have a hearing at which all three banks could 
present their views. This would afford an opportunity to discuss in 
some detail the matter of reserve city classification, which might not 
now be clearly understood by them. 
Governor Brimmer expressed agreement with such a procedure, 
particularly because he had some doubt that the San Francisco Reserve 
Bank had adequately conveyed to the applicants the Board's view that 
banks having offices in reserve cities and doing business of the kind 
characteristic of reserve city banks must expect to carry reserves at 
the higher level required of such banks. 
Governor Robertson agreed that all three banks should be given 
an opportunity to confer with the Board's staff and any available 
Board members. In view of the January 4, 1968, date now set for carry-
ing higher reserves, he suggested that such a meeting should be held 
during the week of December 13. 

4 / hi 
12/7/67 
.. 
-9-
There being agreement with this suggestion, the Board authorized 
the staff to arrange an informal hearing with representatives of the 
three banks during the week of December 13, 1967. 
Application of Citizens Banking Company. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated November 
15, 1967, and other pertinent papers relating to the application of 
The Citizens Banking Company, Sandusky, Ohio, for permission to merge 
with The Firelands Community Bank, Huron, Ohio. The Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland and the Division of Examinations recommended that 
the application be approved, whereas the Banking Markets Section rec-
ommended that the application be denied. 
After a review of the case by Mr. Egertson, Mr. Shull outlined 
the reasons why the Banking Markets Section recommended denial of the 
application. He said that the merger would eliminate existing and 
potential competition and would substantially increase the concentra-
tion of banking in Citizens, which would become clearly the largest 
bank in the area. He also indicated that no important improvements 
to convenience and needs in the Sandusky-Huron area could be expected 
as a result of the proposed merger, that there were no banking factors 
warranting approval, and that there were reasonable alternatives avail-
able to Firelands Community Bank that would not have the same anticom-
petitive effects. 
Following a discussion of the background material, the Board 
voted unanimously to deny the application, and the staff was requested 

1714 
12/7/67 
.. 
-10-
to prepare for the Board's consideration an appropriate order and 
statement regarding the action. 
Capital inadequacies in Bank of the Commonwealth (Item No. 3). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated December 1, 1967, from 
the Division of Examinations concerning capital inadequacies in Bank 
of the Commonwealth, Detroit, and other "Parsons Group" banks, consist-
ing of nine banks, all located in Michigan. The memorandum indicated 
that at Bank of the Commonwealth there was an established pattern of 
expansion of risk assets in loans and municipal securities, heavy 
reduction in U.S. Government securities, and self-serving tendencies, 
and that this pattern was being extended to other banks owned by the 
Parsons Group. Such changes in operating characteristics, accompanied 
by strong deposit growth, had been accomplished without significant 
capital increases. The net result was that Bank of the Commonwealth 
and the Parsons Group banks as a whole were rated as considerably 
short in capital. 
Mr. Leavitt, in commenting on the memorandum, said the Division 
of Examinations had been informed that Vice President Ross and Chief 
Examiner Morrison of the Chicago Reserve Bank had been invited to 
attend the regular December meeting of the Board of Directors of Bank 
>•> f . * * * 
of the Commonwealth for the purpose of discussing the condition of the 
bank and the Reserve Bank's views regarding its capital. The Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation had advised the Board that it was con-
cerned about nonmember insured banks in the Parsons Group for essentially 

4745 
12/7/67 
-li-
the same reasons as were the Federal Reserve examiners. Representa-
tives of the Corporation were meeting with the boards of directors of 
the individual nonmember banks, and a representative from the Corpora-
tion's Washington office was also attending those meetings. 
Mr. Leavitt said the Division of Examinations proposed that 
the Board send a letter to the Board of Directors of Commonwealth Bank 
along the lines of a draft attached to the December 1 memorandum. The 
hope was that such a letter would strengthen the position of the Chicago 
Reserve Bank when its representatives met with the directors of Common-
wealth . 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he was in agreement with the 
position taken by the Division. He felt it desirable for the Reserve 
Bank to conduct the negotiations with the member bank, and he suggested 
editorial changes in the draft letter to help assure such a course and 
minimize direct discussion between Board and Commonwealth Bank repre-
sentatives . 
After further discussion, the Board approved the transmittal 
of a letter to Bank of the Commonwealth in the form attached as Item 
No. 3. 
Crimes against banks (Item No. 4). There had been distributed 
a draft of letter dated November 29, 1967, prepared by the Division of 
Examinations in reply to a letter received by the Board from Chairman 
Fascell of the Legal and Monetary Affairs Subcommittee of the House 

4746 
12/7/67 
.. 
-12-
Committee on Government Operations. In his letter Chairman Fascell had 
requested the Board to provide his Subcommittee with a report on the 
measures that commercial banks were taking to improve their security 
against criminal attacks. 
The proposed reply would state that the Board was without 
statutory authority to promulgate regulations that would require banks 
to provide basic protective devices and measures to prevent robberies, 
that the problem of prescribing security devices did not lend itself to 
the formulation of uniform standards that would be workable and equi-
table, but that the problem would continue to receive close attention, 
particularly on the part of the System's examiners, who were working 
with the other bank supervisory agencies in calling attention to 
inadequacies in security controls and protective devices. 
Following a review of the draft letter by Mr. Leavitt, Governor 
Robertson requested Governor Sherrill to report on a meeting that he 
had attended with representatives of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
and the Department of Justice. 
Governor Sherrill indicated that both the Justice Department 
and the FBI had requested the bank regulatory agencies to support a 
bill presently in the Congress that would require those agencies to 
prescribe regulations concerning protective devices and security mea-
sures, although they believed that the bill provided only minimum 
requirements and not total security for banks. The two agencies 

474 
12/7/67 
a 
-13-
expressed concern about the increase in crimes against banks, and the 
statistics that they presented indicated the magnitude of the problem. 
The bank regulatory agency representatives at the meeting had responded 
by indicating the difficulties involved in prescribing regulations in 
this area, but the meeting had ended with the understanding that the 
various agencies would consider the possibility of writing some draft 
regulations. Governor Sherrill recommended that before the Board sent 
any reply to Chairman Fascell, the other bank regulatory agencies be 
consulted. 
Governor Maisel said that after further consideration of the 
subject of crimes against banks he now believed that a national problem 
existed, one that was not concerned with banking or economics alone. 
In view of this, he thought that banks should be spending money to meet 
th is problem and should not assume that protective and security devices 
were too costly. 
Governor Brimmer said that he had been interested in recent 
stories in the press that indicated the results obtained from the use 
of cameras in banks. He agreed with Governor Maisel that the matter 
should be viewed in terms of a national social problem and not one 
concerning banks individually, and his inclination was to encourage 
the proposed legislation. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the question of cost was 
important to banks and that the Board should not support legislation 
that would require banks to bear an undue cost for protective devices. 

, 47< 
12/7/67 
a 
-14-
Governor Sherrill responded that the figures of the FBI indi-
cated that protective devices could be provided at reasonable cost--
some effective cameras were available for about $100. The cost to the 
Government, on the other hand, of investigating and prosecuting crimes 
ran many times heavier. 
Governor Robertson then suggested a number of revisions i,n the 
draft letter to indicate that the Federal Reserve was concerned with 
the problem and had been taking steps to cope with it, including the 
provision of information to its examiners as to modern methods of bank 
security. He also suggested that the revised letter be cleared infor-
mally with the other bank supervisory agencies before it was sent to 
Chairman Fascell. 
There was agreement with this suggestion. 
Secretary's Note: Subsequently, a letter 
in the form attached as Item No. 4 was 
sent to Chairman Fascell under date of 
December 15, 1967. 
Access to examination reports by General Accounting Office 
_(Item No. 5) . There had been distributed a draft of letter to the 
Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in response to 
his inquiry of November 15, 1967, concerning access desired by the 
General Accounting Office to examination reports in the possession of 
sen >r • *t! r r . 
the Corporation. GAO had requested the FDIC to make available to it 
examination reports of State member banks prepared by examiners of the 
Federal Reserve, as well as examination reports of nonmember insured 

• 4 7 % 9 
12/7/67 
.. 
-15-
banks prepared by FDIC personnel. The proposed reply to Chairman 
Randall took the position that neither reports of examination of State 
member banks made by the Federal Reserve nor summaries of such reports 
appeared to be relevant to the audit of the FDIC by GAO, and that 
accordingly it would be inappropriate for such reports or summaries 
thereof to be made available. 
Governor Maisel commented that the Comptroller General's letter 
to the FDIC seemed to be seeking no more than a summary of the reports, 
and Governor Robertson expressed the view that even summaries of the 
reports should not be given to third parties without Congressional 
authorization. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that the request of GAO 
was aimed exclusively at the FDIC. He felt there was no intention to 
review reports of examination except to determine the validity of 
examination procedures. 
After further discussion, it was agreed, with Governor Maisel 
dis senting, that the Board's reply should indicate to the FDIC that 
neither the reports of examination of State member banks by the Federal 
Reserve nor summaries of such reports were relevant to audits of the 
FDIC by GAO, and that the Board believed it would be inappropriate for 
such reports and summaries to be made available to GAO. 
The Board then approved transmittal of a letter to the FDIC in 
the form attached as Item No. 5. 

* 4750 
12/7/67 
" 
-16-
Applicatiori of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation (Item 
No. 6) . Mr. O'Connell reviewed background information concerning the 
application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of First Northwestern National Bank of 
Milwaukee, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a proposed new bank. He indicated 
that the Comptroller of the Currency had recommended approval of the 
application, but that three banks in the area had objected. The 
objections had been analyzed and the protestants had requested a hear-
ing before the Board. Mr. O'Connell said that he doubted the Board 
would gain information by holding a hearing, but he felt that it might 
be useful for the Board to permit the- three banks objecting to the 
acquisition to make an oral presentation, as had been done recently 
in the case involving a proposed acquisition by Northwest Bancorpora-
tion of Minneapolis. He recommended that such an oral presentation 
be held during the week of January 8, 1968. 
Governor Maisel said he felt that the oral presentation in the 
Northwest Bancorporation case had been useful and that he would favor 
having a similar presentation in the case in question. 
There being general agreement, the Board authorized the holding 
°f an oral presentation during the week of January 8, 1968. A copy of 
the Board's order for an oral presentation is attached as Item No. 6. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 

* 4751 
12/7/67 
.. 
-17-
Examination of the Cleveland Reserve Bank. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated October 26, 1967, from the Division of 
Examinations transmitting the report of examination of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland made as of August 24, 1967. The examination 
of coin holdings at the Bank's Pittsburgh Branch had revealed several 
deviations from prescribed policies and procedures, and a need for more 
effective supervisory attention was indicated. These deviations and 
certain procedural suggestions concerning operations and controls, none 
of which were deemed of sufficient importance to warrant detailing in 
the report of examination, had been discussed with the management and 
the General Auditor. Corrective action was promised. 
In reviewing the matters covered in the memorandum and the 
examination report, Mr. Walcutt discussed the steps that management of 
the Cleveland Reserve Bank had taken since date of examination to 
rectify the conditions noted at the Pittsburgh Branch. These involved 
a number of personnel changes, including the appointment of a new 
Branch Auditor and the designation of a new Assistant Vice President 
to supervise the cash and coin function, as well as improved procedures 
for testing coin verifiers and permitting access to the area. 
Mr. Walcutt then reported on the program of the Division of 
Examinations for recruitment of Federal Reserve examiners and on his 
visits to Reserve Banks during examinations. In response to a question 
by Governor Robertson regarding the extent to which the field examining 

, 47< 
a 
12/7/67 
a 
-18-
force was understaffed, Mr. Walcutt expressed the view that the addi-
tion of four or five competent persons would bring the staff to an 
adequate level. He observed that retention of qualified personnel 
continued to be a serious problem in view of the extensive traveling 
required of field examiners. 
In response to several questions by Board members as to the 
difficulties in the Cash Department at the Pittsburgh Branch, Mr. 
Walcutt stated that there had been a deterioration between the preced-
ing examination and the one recently concluded. The failure to correct 
the situation appeared to be at least partly attributable to a vacancy 
that had developed earlier this year in the position of Assistant 
General Auditor, this having affected audit schedules adversely. The 
vacancy had recently been filled. 
Governor Brimmer then asked how Mr. Walcutt would rate the 
Cleveland Reserve Bank comparatively, to which Mr. Walcutt replied 
that although the Bank could not be described as perfect, he considered 
management to be competent, well balanced, and interested in maintain-
ing the operations of the Bank in a highly satisfactory condition. In 
general, he would say that the Bank was better than average. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Pursuant to the recom-
mendation contained in a memorandum from 
the Division of Administrative Services, 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the appointment of Russell E. 
Fisk as Guard in that Division, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 

4753 
12/7/67 
.. 
-19-
..... 
On Deq^mber 7, 1967, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 
By the Director of the Division of Bank Operations 
Item No. 
Letter to Liberty National Bank, San Francisco, 
7 
California, granting the request made on its 
behalf to maintain reduced reserves, effective 
upon consummation of the merger of The First 
National Bank of Vista, Vista, California, and 
Golden Gate National Bank, San Francisco. 

; 4754 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
12/7/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 7, 1967. 
Mr. John K. Carlock, 
Fiscal Assistant Secretary, 
Department of the Treasury, 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
Dear Mr. Carlock: 
The Board is agreeable to the extension of local 
destruction procedures to the unfit $20, $50 and $100 
Federal Reserve notes as proposed in your letter of 
October 18, 1967. 
Your letter was circulated to the Reserve Banks 
and they are also agreeable to the undertaking. None of 
the Banks feel that there will be any problem in assuming 
the additional work. Most of the Banks favor a 40 per cent 
verification of the $20's and two would prefer a verifica-
tion of 50 per cent. The Board is also inclined to favor 
a 40 per cent verification. 
Accordingly, there would be no objection to your 
proceeding with issuance of appropriate instructions to 
the Reserve Banks to begin local destruction of the $20, 
$50 and $100 notes, effective January 1, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

47* 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
C. 20851 
Item No. 2 
12/7/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
December 7, 1967 
Mr. Edward A. Wayne, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213. 
Dear Mr. Wayne: 
This refers to your letter of November 9, 1967, 
requesting approval of the acquisition by the Richmond 
Reserve Bank of property adjoining the Bank's head office 
building. 
The Board will interpose no objection to the 
acquisition of the proposed property and authorizes its 
purchase at a price of $85,000, as recommended in your 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

4756 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
12/7/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 13, 1967. 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of the Commonwealth, 
Detroit, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
In its letter of September 23, 1966, approving the acquisi-
tion of assets and assumption of liabilities of Public Bank, Detroit, 
Michigan, by your bank, the Board of Governors observed that the 
capital position of Bank of the Commonwealth was not entirely 
satisfactory and stated its understanding that the directorate of the 
ank would propose a program for increasing capital funds in early 
1968. The Board expressed the hope that the capital increase program 
could be accelerated. 
The April 21, 1967, report of examination and the October 4, 
report of condition reflect continuing increases in deposits, 
°aris, and municipal securities without proportional increases in 
capital funds. The capital funds of your bank are substantially less 
han satisfactory, particularly for so large and important a bank. 
In your letter of September 18, 1967, to Vice President Ross 
o t the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, you propose to raise $5 to $10 
"Million through sale of either common or preferred stock. Addition of 
even the larger amount would not provide the capital funds now needed 
y your bank. Moreover, any increase in capital funds should take into 
account further growth in deposit liabilities and risk assets and 
Provision of services to the community. 
It is the Board's unders'tanding that you have extended an 
^vitation to members of the staffs of the Michigan State Banking 
ePartment and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago to meet with you on 
ecember 18, 1967, to discuss matters of mutual interest. The Board 

4757 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of the Commonwealth 
-2-
of Governors hopes that, on the occasion of this meeting, your Board of 
Directors will consider a realistic solution to the capital problem of 
your bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
cc: Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 

4758 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 4 
12/7/67 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 15, 1967 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell, Chairman, 
Legal and Monetary Affairs Subcommittee of the 
Committee on Government Operations, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In your letter of October 18, 1967, you express concern 
about the increasing number of bank robberies. You refer to the 
specific recommendations contained in the Report of the Legal and 
Monetary Affairs Subcommittee in 1963-1964 (H.R. No. 1147, 88th 
Congress, 2nd Session) and suggest that in view of the increased 
number of robberies not enough has yet been done. You suggest that 
the Board promulgate regulations which would require banks to pro-
vide basic protective devices and measures that the institutions 
under its supervision must adopt. 
The Board is without statutory authority to issue such 
regulations. Furthermore, appropriate security measures for any 
bank musrt be determined in the light of factors such as the inci-
dence of crime in the community where the bank is situated, the 
bank's location within the community, and the physical character-
istics of the bank's quarters. The formulation of uniform standards 
for prescribing security devices and procedures that would be equita-
ble and effective involves great difficulties. However, minimum 
requirements could be prescribed if a law were enacted. 
The Board, in its previous letters to you on this subject, 
has expressed its concern about this problem and has taken steps to 
cope with it. For example, our examiners have been alerted to the 
situation and, where appropriate, instructed to discuss recommenda-
tions of the Committee with management in order that measures to 
deter bank robbers and assist in their conviction when apprehended 
might be adopted. To assist in this we use a questionnaire, 
• 

4759 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
- 2 -
f ' . 
o 
developed jointly with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
as a means of calling to the attention of management existing 
inadequacies in security controls and protective devices. Our 
examiners apprise bank management of the responsibility of its 
directors to provide adequate safeguards for all phases of a bank's 
operations, both internal and external. Moreover, most newly 
employed examining personnel attend a bank examination school operated 
jointly by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal 
Reserve System, and at this school these personnel are informed about 
the problem and instructed to urge management to take those steps which 
will render banks less vulnerable. As part of our continuing program 
of keeping examining personnel informed we have ordered 600 booklets 
entitled "Embezzlement Controls and Other Safeguards for Banks" by 
Lester A. Pratt, C.P.A. One of these booklets will soon be made 
available to each examiner and assistant examiner. For your information 
a booklet is enclosed. 
Analyses of the previously mentioned questionnaires indicate 
that banks are becoming more security conscious and improving pro-
tective measures against external crimes. We plan to continue empha-
sizing this approach. 
From time to time data are tabulated in order that we be 
kept currently informed. Since we have started using the questionnaire, 
354 State member banks have each been examined at least three times. 
The enclosed tabulation, which is shown on a copy of the actual question-
naire, indicates the progress made in improving security and controls 
against external crimes. 
We hope the information provided is of assistance to you 
and the Committee. 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
v 
Enclosures. 

47(J0 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 5 
12/7/67 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 11, 1967. 
The Honorable K. A. Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Kay: 
This refers to your letter of November 15, 1967, and 
attachment, regarding a suggestion of the General Accounting 
Office for that organization to have access to examination reports 
of open banks in connection with its annual audit of your Corpora-
tion. The "agreement" proposed by GAO states that GAO would have 
"unrestricted access to examination reports and related data on 
open banks including summaries of examination reports on State 
banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System and national 
banks." 
The Board believes that neither reports of examination 
of State member banks by the Federal Reserve, nor summaries of 
such reports, are relevant to the audit of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation by the General Accounting Office. In 
the circumstances, the Board is convinced that it would be 
inappropriate for either such reports or summaries to be made 
available to GAO pursuant to the GAO proposal. 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

47G1 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/7/67 
* 
: • • ' / , 
_ Q 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order for Oral Presentation 
In the matter of the application of First Wisconsin 
Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, pursuant to section 3 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 
On July 29, 1967, there was published in the Federal 
Register (32 F.R. 11098) a notice of receipt by the Board of Governors 
of an application filed pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)) by First Wisconsin Bankshares 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, 
for the prior approval of the Board of the acquisition by Applicant of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares to be issued by First North-
western National Bank of Milwaukee, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a proposed 
new bank. 
The aforestated published notice provided that within 30 days 
of publication thereof comments and views on the proposed acquisition 
could be filed with the Board. Opposition to the proposal has been 
filed on behalf of the following banks located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin: 
The Brown Deer Bank, Silver Spring Bank, and Hampton State Bank. 
It appears to the Board that it is appropriate in the public 
interest that there be conducted before the Board an oral presentation 
at which representatives of the three named opposing banks and Applicant 
could present views and comments with respect to this application. 

-2-
Accordingly, 
0 
It is hereby ordered. That pursuant to section 262.3(f)(3) 
of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.2(f)(3)) an oral 
presentation be held with respect to this application commencing at 
2:00 p.m. on January 12, 1968, in Room 1202 of the Federal Reserve 
Building, 20th and Constitution Avenue, Washington, D. C. 
It is further ordered, That said oral presentation shall be 
public, and that participation in the oral argument shall be limited 
to representatives of The Brown Deer Bank, the Silver Spring Bank, 
the Hampton State Bank, the Applicant, and the Board of Governors. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 11th day of December, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

m 
i^e V, 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
o 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20531 
4763 
Item No. 7 
12/7/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Liberty National Bank, 
San Francisco, California. 
Gentlemen: 
• it 
w 
•M 
With reference to the request submitted through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco by Ihe First 
National Bank of Vista, Vista, California, the Director 
of the Division of Bank Operations of the Board of 
Governors, acting under delegated authority, grants per-
mission pursuant to provisions of Section 19 of the 
Federal Reserve Act to the Liberty National Bank to main-
tain the same reserves against deposits as are required 
to be maintained by banks not in reserve cities, effective 
on the date of the merger of The First National Bank of 
Vista and Golden Gate National Bank, San Francisco, 
California. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such 
permission is subject to revocation by the Board of 
Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
» iYt 
itelil 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
