FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
May 27, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
T ' 
JL^ 
/l/I -J/J 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1355 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 27, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on May 18, 1971, and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on May 20 
of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 

1356 
5/27/71 
-2-
The Board authorized the issuance of an order (copy attached 
as Item No. 1) reflecting approval on May 18, 1971, of the application 
of Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to become a bank 
holding company. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to the Department of 
Justice (copy attached as Item No. 2) advising that its staff would 
prepare a brief requested by the Court in connection with pending 
litigation involving interpretation of one of the Board's margin 
regulations. 
The Board approved unanimously the sending of a letter to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (copy attached as Item No. 3) 
approving the appointment of Leonall C. Andersen as Senior Vice Presi-
dent effective July 1, 1971, and the payment of salary to him at the 
annual rate fixed by the Bank's directors. 
(It was noted that the 
i' * " 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, under 
delegated authority, had approved the payment of salary to two Vice 
Presidents of the Bank at the respective annual rates fixed by the 
directors.) 
Definition of "bank". Since it was understood that Congressional 
interest had been expressed in the case, the Board held over for con-
sideration after the Chairman's return a memorandum from the Legal 
Division dated May 24, 1971, involving the definition of "bank" under 
section 2(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended. However, 

4 
5/27/71 
-2-
certain questions presented by the situation that gave rise to the 
memorandum were discussed preliminarily, including the consequences of 
a decision that an organization such as the one here involved would 
remain a bank holding company if it continued to own an institution 
that was held to be an uninsured commercial bank, for purposes of the 
Bank Holding Company Act, in light of the provision written into the 
Act at the Board's suggestion that all subsidiary banks of a bank 
holding company must be insured. It was understood that the staff 
would give thought to this and related questions preparatory to fur-
ther consideration of the matter by the Board. 
Proposed amendments to margin regulations. With regard to 
proposed amendments to the Board's margin regulations that were pub-
lished for comment on April 16, 1971, staff now recommended in a 
memorandum dated April 27, 1971 (but only recently distributed) that 
the proposed amendments be republished for comment in a revised form 
that would close a loophole which would permit banks to make subordi-
nated, unsecured loans directly to broker/dealers without regard to 
the restrictions contemplated by the proposed amendments. Staff also 
recommended that the Board extend to July 1, 1971, the time allowed 
for comment. 
It was agreed that the matter should be held over until addi-
tional members of the Board could be present, but that in the meantime 

135 
5/27/71 
-4-
the staff would review the situation with staff of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange in the light of 
comments that had been received from the Stock Exchange and a number 
of broker/dealers alleging unfortunate consequences from the stand-
point of the industry if the originally proposed amendments were 
eventually adopted. It was understood that, even though the May 24 
deadline for receipt of comments on the proposed amendments had 
passed, any further comments received would be given consideration. 
Some Board members expressed reservations regarding whether 
amendments to the Board's margin regulations to restrict bank loans 
to broker/dealers represented the most appropriate method of dealing 
with the problem involved, and it was understood that the staff would 
take these comments into account in its further analysis. 
H.R. 3245. After several clarifying changes had been agreed 
upon, the Board approved unanimously a letter to Chairman Celler of 
the House Judiciary Committee in the form attached as Item No. 4, in 
response to his request for comments on H.R. 3245, a bill to amend 
section 8 of the Clayton Act to prohibit certain corporate management 
interlocking relationships. 
During discussion it was noted that the letter would transmit 
a draft of amendment to H.R. 5700 that had been furnished by Chairman 
Burns to the Chairman of the House Banking and Currency Committee 

1359 
5/27/71 
-2-
embodying the Board's recommendations with respect to interlocking 
relationships with depositary institutions. After discussion it was 
agreed that it would be appropriate to use this attachment in writing 
to Chairman Celler rather than to provide him a draft of suggested 
amendments to H.R. 3245. 
Members of the staff other than Mr. Kenyon withdrew from the 
meeting at this point. 
Director appointment at New York. With regard to the possible 
appointment of Mr. Douglas Dillon as a Class C director of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York to fill the vacancy created by the death of 
Mr. Whitney Young, Governor Robertson read a letter that had been 
received from Mr. Dillon calling attention to pending arrangements under 
which he would become an officer and in effect a principal stockholder 
in Dillon,Read & Co., an investment banking firm. 
It was understood that the matter would be held over for con-
sideration when additional members of the Board could be present. 
However, members of the Board present at today's meeting were inclined 
to feel that the information presented by Mr. Dillon raised questions 
regarding the advisability of his appointment as a Class C director 
from a policy standpoint. One member (Governor Maisel) felt that the 
situation might even present a legal impediment to such appointment, 
if it developed that the Dillon, Read portfolio included bank stocks. 

1360 
5/27/71 
-6-
It was understood that Governor Robertson would have that question 
explored by Board staff. However, it was pointed out that a decision 
on legal grounds would not be necessary if the Board concluded that 
a sufficient obstacle existed on policy grounds. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1361 
Item No. 1 
5/27/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC„, 
1 
Houston, Texas, 
1 
for approval of action to become a bank 
1 
holding company, 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
Houston, Texas ("Applicant"), for the Board1s prior approval of 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of the successor by merger to Texas Commerce Bank 
National Association, Houston, Texas ("Texas Commerce"). As an 
incident to the merger, Applicant would acquire the beneficial 
ownership of more than 20 but less than 25 per cent of the shares 
of each of the following six Texas banks: Airline National Bank of 
Houston (24.9 per cent); North Freeway Bank, Houston (24.9 per cent); 

Reagan State Bank of Houston (24.9 per cent); First National Bank 
of Stafford (24.7 per cent); Chemical Bank and Trust Company, 
Houston (21.1 per cent); and Lockwood National Bank of Houston 
(20.4 per cent). 
The described shares of the six banks other than Texas 
Commerce are owned by Texas Commerce Shareholders Company, all 
the shares of which are held by trustees for the benefit of the 
shareholders of Texas Commerce. As a result of the merger, Applicant 
will succeed to beneficial ownership of all of the shares of Texas 
Commerce Shareholders Company, and, indirectly, of the described 
shares of the six banks. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 
of the Currency and the Texas Commissioner of Banking, and requested 
their views and recommendations. Both recommended approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 24, 1971 (36 Federal Register 5537), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 

1363 
-3-
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a newly-formed organization and has no 
operating history,, Upon acquisition of Texas Commerce ($865 million 
of deposits), Applicant would become the fourth largest bank holding 
company in the State and would control about 4 per cent of the 
deposits in the State, (All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, 
and reflect holding company acquisitions approved through April 30, 
1971.) 
Texas Commerce is located in downtown Houston. It is 
the second largest banking organization in the Houston area with 
control of 16.3 per cent of the deposits in the Houston SMSA, which 
approximates the relevant market. (Texas Commerce will be merged 
into a nonoperating bank which has significance only as a vehicle 
to accomplish the acquisition of all the shares of Texas Commerce. 
Acquisition of the shares of the resulting bank is treated as an 
acquisition of the shares of Texas Commerce.) 
Airline National Bank of Houston ($24 million of deposits), 
North Freeway Bank ($3 million of deposits), Reagan State Bank of 
Houston ($54 million of deposits), First National Bank of Stafford 

-4' 
1361 
($7 million of deposits), Chemical Bank and Trust Company ($19 
million of deposits), and Lockwood National Bank ($26 million of 
deposits) are all located in areas in or adjacent to the city 
of Houston, 
Texas Commerce acquired its indirect interest in five of 
the six banks in 1968 in order to establish correspondent relation-
ships with these retail . banks and make it a stronger competitor 
of the other large Houston banks. In 1969 it participated in the 
organization of, and thereby acquired an interest in, North Freeway 
Bank. While Texas Commerce presently exerts some influence over 
the operations of these six banks, the Board notes Applicant's 
assertion that they "will not be controlled by Applicant [and] 
they will not be subsidiaries of Applicant within the meaning of 
the term 'subsidiaries' as defined in the Act." Since it appears 
that the proposed transaction is essentially a corporate reorganization 
of existing interests and reflects neither expansion of the group 
nor an increase in the banking resources controlled by it, con-
summation of Applicant's proposal is not expected to affect existing 
or potential banking competition. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of this proposal would not have a significant 
adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. Considerations 
relating to financial and managerial resources and prospects as they 
relate to Applicant, Texas Commerce and the six associated banks 

12 
-3-
are consistent with approval of the application. Applicant will 
begin operations in a satisfactory financial condition and will be 
able to draw management expertise from Texas Commerce, Its prospects, 
which depend largely on those of Texas Commerce, are favorable. The 
convenience and needs of the Houston area will not be materially 
affected by consummation of Applicants proposal. It is the Board1 s 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved* 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons summarized above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reacrve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 27, 1971, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

.•gOfCOj-A'. 
136 r 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
5/27/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C O R R E B P 0 N D E N C
TO THE BOARD 
May 28, 1971 
Mr. Harland F. Leathers, Chief, 
General Litigation Section, 
United States Department of Justice, 
Washington, D. C. 20530 
Re: Gary Cooper et al. v. Union Bank, etc., et al., 
U.S.D.C., Central District of California, 
Civil No. 71-343-F. 
Dear Mr. Leathers: 
This refers to your letter of May 4, 1971, in connection 
with the above captioned matter. The Board of Governors' staff has 
reviewed the copies of papers filed in the matter, which you enclosed, 
in the light of the request by Judge Ferguson that the United States 
appear as an amicus curiae. The request arises from the fact that 
the proceedings involve an interpretation of the Board's Regulation U, 
"Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin 
Stocks" (12 CFR 221). 
The Board will be pleased to render whatever assistance 
it can to the Court in the determination of this matter, and accord-
ingly, it has directed its staff to proceed with the preparation of 
a brief. Miss Hart and Mr. Schoedel, of the Securities Credit Regu-
lation function of the Division of Supervision and Regulation, which 
is the function primarily responsible for matters involving the Board's 
margin regulations, will be in touch with your staff from time to time 
in this connection. However, in view of the press of other urgent 
business, it would be appreciated if you could obtain from the Court 
an extension of the time allotted for filing the brief. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1 3 6 7 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N • RS 
item No. 3 
• F THE 
5/27/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM. 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OrHCIAL CDRRfSPDNOtNCC 
TD THE HOARD 
May 28, 1971 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
P. 0. Box 442 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors has approved the appointment and 
payment of salary at the annual rate of $33,000 to Mr. Leonall C. 
Andersen as Senior Vice President (Research) of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis for the period July 1 through December 31, 1971. 
Also, acting under delegated authority of the Board, the 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans has ap-
proved the payment of salaries to the following two officers of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis listed below for the period July 1 
through December 31, 19/1. 
Annual 
Name 
Title 
Salary 
Charles E. Silva 
Vice President 
$23,500 
Donald W. Moriarty, Jr. 
Vice President 
22,000 
All salaries listed above are as fixed by your Board of 
Directors as reported in your letter of May 13, 1971. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1368 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E ; 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
5/27/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
? O S S I 
O F F I C E : 
O F T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 28, 1971 
The Honorable Emanuel Celler, Chairman 
House Judiciary Committee 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for the Board's 
comments on H.R. 3245, a bill to amend section 8 of the Clayton Act 
(15 U.S.C. 19) to prohibit certain corporate management interlocking 
relationships, and for other purposes. 
H.R. 3245-would, in general, forbid interlocking relation-
ships between any two corporations, where one is engaged in commerce 
if (a) the two were actual or potential competitors, (b) there was 
an actual or potential relationship between them as customer, supplier, 
or source of credit or capital, or (c) the principal business of one 
is to hold stock in, or control stock of, another company. Inter-
locking relationships between parent and subsidiaries, where one 
owned 50 per cent or more of the voting stock of the other would be 
exempted. Any other exemption would require approval of the Attorney 
General. 
The Clayton Act, as it now stands and as it would be revised 
by H.R. 32.45, recognizes that there is nothing inherently wrong about 
interlocking directorates. Corporate boards of directors should be 
composed of men having diverse backgrounds so that the corporations 
they serve may benefit from their ideas and experience. Generally 
speaking, interlocks should be prohibited only if they tend to diminish 
or eliminate competition. 
The provisions of H.R. 3245 that would prohibit interlocks 
between firms where one is an actual or potential "customer, supplier, 
or source of credit or capital" of the other would appear to be much 
broader than necessary, particularly with respect to banks. Since 
almost any commercial or financial institution is a potential customer 
of a bank and since almost any bank is a potential source of credit 
for a commercial or financial institution, banks would virtually be 

The Honorable Emanuel. Celler 
- 2 -
precluded from having outside directors, and bankers would be prohibited 
from serving on corporate boards of directors. In the Board's opinion, 
this would be an extremely unfortunate consequence, as economic benefits 
flow from a high standard of performance by boards of directors and 
bankers often have experience and expertise that qualify them to render 
valuable service. Banks also benefit from having the advice and counsel 
of directors with diverse backgrounds and experience. Equally important, 
interlocks would be prohibited in situations where there is, as a prac-
tical matter, no likelihood of anticompetitive consequences. The Board 
recommends against enactment of this provision of the bill. 
The Board also questions the purpose of section 8(a)(1)(C), 
which would appear to prohibit interlocks with any holding company of 
any kind. There are many different types of holding companies; some 
compete with one another while others do not. The Board is unaware of 
any reason why all holding companies should be prohibited from having 
interlocking relationships with other corporations. 
The Board believes there is merit in preserving the present 
statutory pattern, under which depositary institutions are subject to 
somewhat different rules regarding interlocks than are ordinary busi-
ness corporations. 
r£he problems of interlocking relationships between 
depositary institutions are unique because of the necessity for public 
confidence in these institutions. Moreover, we believe that there are 
practical advantages in using an objective standard to identify situa-
tions where interlocks pose a threat to competition among such insti-
tutions . 
In recent months, we have given considerable thought to 
methods to improve the statutory framework. At the Banking and Currency 
Committee's recent hearings on 11.R. 5700, Chairman Burns was asked to 
submit a draft amendment embodying the Board's recommendations with 
respect to interlocking relationships with depositary institutions. 
A copy of this draft is enclosed. Briefly, the draft would prohibit 
interlocking relationships between banks, savings banks, and savings 
and loan associations, which are not affiliated, where each has $1 bil-
lion or more in assets or where they, or any of their depositary 
affiliates, have offices in the same community. 
Interlocks between 
depositary institutions and non-depositary institutions would be pro-
hibited if they are actual or potential competitors so that elimination 
of competition between them would constitute a violation of the anti-
trust laws. The reference in the draft to section 8 of the Clayton Act 
is, of course, to the section as presently written. If Congress should 
amend section 8, changes in this draft might be required. 

The Honorable Emanuel Celler 
-3-
17 
Let me turn now to the additional information requested in 
your letter of April 28, 1971. H.R. 3245 would affect the Board's 
responsibilities under two existing statutes, section 8 of the Clayton 
Act and section 32 of the Banking Act (12 U.S.C. 78). Under its 
terms, your bill would replace the first and take precedence over any 
inconsistent provisions of the second, or any regulations promulgated 
thereunder. These regulations are Federal Reserve Regulation L and 
Federal Reserve Regulation R, copies of which are enclosed for your 
convenient reference. Interpretations of these regulations which are 
of general interest are published at 12 Code of Federal Regulations, 
Parts 212 and 218. To our knowledge, the only judicial proceeding 
since January 1, 1965 that involved any such interpretation was 
Investment Company Institute v. Camp, which was decided by the U.S. 
Supreme Court on April 5> 1971 (lower court opinions appear at 420 F. 
2d.83 and 274 F. Supp. 624). 
In conclusion, the Board fully supports your efforts to 
improve the competitive positions of corporations in our country. It 
is our belief, based on our experience with section 8, that the draft 
we are enclosing would provide a sound basis for the continuation and 
enhancement of healthy competition among financial institutions. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
Enclosures (3) 

1371 
Amendment Offered by 15r„ _ 
to n.rw 5700 
Page 2, strike line 2 and all that follows through page 13, 
line 11, and insert in lieu thereof the following: 
Sec. 2. ( a) 
J ' i i ^ ^ X ^ i ^ l ^ ^ — • 
(1) The definitions and rules of construction set forth 
in this subsection apply for the purposes of this section. 
; (2) The terra "depositary", used with reference to any 
organi:ialion except a holding company, characterises it as a 
"Y 
ban!;, a savings bank, or a savings and loan association. 
(3) The term "depositary holding company" means a bank 
holding company as defined in section 2(a) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 or a savings and loan holding company as 
defined in section 400(a)(1)(D) of the National Housing Act. 
(4) The character)nation of any corporation (whether a 
depositary institution or not) as an "affiliate" of, or as 
"affiliated" with, any other corporation means that 
(A) one of the corporations is a depositary 
institution and the other is an affiliate thereof, or 
both corporations are affiliates of the same depositary 
institution, as the term "affiliate" is defined in 
relation to a member bank by section 2(b) of the Banking 
Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C, 221a(b)); 

137 
(3) one of the corporations is a depositary holding 
company and the other is a subsidiary thereof, or both 
corporations are subsidiaries of the some depositary 
holding company, as the tern "subsidiary" is defined 
in section 2(d) of the Ban!: Holding Company Act of 1956 
or section /.00(a) (1) 0 0 of the national Housing Act; or 
(C) more them 50 per cent of the voting stock of 
one corporation is owned in the aggregate by one or more 
persons who would also own mere than 50 per cent of the 
voting stock of the other corporation if no person's 
ownership of any voting stock of either corporation were 
taken into consideration to the extent that it exceeds, 
as a percentage of all outstanding voting stock of that 
corporation, twice the percentage owned by that person 
of all outstanding voting stock of the other corporation. 
(5) The term "management official" means an employee with 
management functions, an officer, or a director, or any person 
who has a representative or nominee serving in any such capacity. 
(6) The term "office", used with reference to a depositary 
institution, means cither a principal office or a branch. • 
(7) Nothing in this section authorizes any relationship 
otherwise prohibited by section 8 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 
19)or any other provision of law. 

137 
-3-
( b ) I.nrs^ij^U.llons. 
A manaCenent official o£ a depositary 
inBtltutton having total assets e>:cccdin3 §1,000,000,000 r.ay not 
oovvc ar, a raanascmsnt official of any other depositary institution 
not affiliated therewith and having total assets in oxess of 
that riir.ount. 
( c ) G
e
o
p
r
n
g
j
* 
A management official of a 
depositary institution may not serve nr. a management, official 
of any other depositary institution not affiliated therewith if, 
within any area comprised of any city, town, or village and any 
adjoining city, tovm, or village there are located an office cr-
one of the institutions or any depositary affiliate thereof and 
an office of the other institution or any depositary affiliate 
thereof; except that this prohibition does not apply during any 
period not exceeding si:: months' duration when, according to 
the records of both institutions, they arc giving active con-
sideration to their merger or consolidation, or to purchase of 
a substantial portion of the assets and assumption of a sub-
r 
ctantial portion of the liabilities of one by the other. 
(d) C
o
n
^
^
t
i
o
j
^
A 
canagc-
merit official of a depositary institution having capital, surplus, 
and undivided profits aggregating more than $1,COO,000 may not 
serve as a management official of any corporation not affiliated 
therewith which is not a depositary institution and which has 

capital, surplus, and undivided profits aggregating more than 
$1,000,000 if that corporation is in a position to engage in such 
substantial competition with the depositary institution that 
the elimination of competition by agreement between them would 
constitute a violation of the Act of July 2, 1090 (the Sherman 
Antitrust Act), the Act. of October 15, 1914 (the Clayton Act), 
or any other Acts in pari materia, 
(e) Depositary holding companies„ The prohibitions of 
subsections (b), (c), and (d) on service by a management official 
of any given depositary institution also apply to service by any 
management official of any depositary holding company with which 
it is affiliated. 
Penalty, Whoever willfully and knowingly violates any 
provision of subsection (b), (c), (d), or (e) of this section 
shall be fined not more than $5,000, 
Conforming Amendment to 
Effective Date Provisions 
H.R. 5700 
page 27, strike lines 13 through 16 and insert: 
(b) Section 2 and the amendments made by section 13 become 
effective on the first.day of the fourth calendar year which 
begins after the date of enactment. 
