MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 18, 1968 

35'-' r6 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Wednesday, September 18, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr„ Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Lynch of the Legal Division 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Poundstone of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
: < 
'.;••:! " • 
s ; 
" • a' •'•'. »..;: i. :„ : U 
''•!*/ f ^. • • 
Foreign banking matters. The following items were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background material that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 

3507 
9/18/68 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International Finance 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to the acquisition of additional shares of Pakistan 
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation, 
Karachi, Pakistan. 
Letter to Virgin Islands National Bank, Charlotte 
2 
Amalie, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, approving the 
establishment of a branch in St. Johns, Antigua, 
West Indies. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International Banking 
3 
Corporation, New York, New York, amending the 
Board's previous consent to acquire additional 
shares of Banca Morgan Vonwiller S.p.A., Milan, 
Italy. 
In connection with the third item, Governor Brimmer, who had 
requested at the meeting on September 6, 1968, that the matter be 
held over for further consideration by the staff, referred to a memo-
randum from Messrs. Solomon (Supervision and Regulation) and Sammons 
dated September 11 and said he concurred in the view expressed therein 
that modification of the Board's previous authorization so as to per-
mit acquisition of outstanding as well as newly-issued capital stock 
was justified on the basis that a commitment had existed prior to 
January 1, 1968. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Hampton Bays National 
Bank, Hampton Bays, New York, into Valley National Bank of Long Island, 
Valley Stream, New York, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 

/"» . 
O D v o 
9/18/68 
-3-
There is virtually no competition existing 
between The Hampton Bays National Bank and Valley 
National Bank of Long Island, Valley Stream, but 
there is some potential for competition between 
them. The overall competitive effect would be 
slightly adverse. 
After discussion of the relevant market area, a report on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Fidelity National 
Bank, Arlington, Virginia, with The American Bank, Woodbridge, Virginia, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is some competition between Fidelity 
National Bank of Arlington and The American Bank, 
Woodbridge, a subsidiary of Virginia Commonwealth 
Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, a registered bank holding 
company. Numerous alternatives, including Washington, 
D. C. banks, would remain available for area residents. 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., presently 
controls 8 banking offices in Northern Virginia with 
1.6 per cent of area deposits. If the proposed merger 
is consummated this holding company would control 11 
banking offices in Northern Virginia with 3.4 per cent 
of area deposits. Four holding companies with repre-
sentation in Northern Virginia together hold 72.9 per 
cent of area deposits, which would be increased to 
73.7 per cent if the instant proposal is approved. 
The overall effect of the transaction would be 
adverse. 
Weekly Federal Reserve statement. The staff described for the 
information of the Board, the way in which it was proposed to handle in 
the weekly Federal Reserve statement the consequences of adoption of the 
so-called lagged reserve proposal. 

9/18/68 
-4-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. Governor Robertson read a letter 
dated September 12, 1968, from Chairman Lunding of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago recommending that consideration be given to suspension 
of Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, from the credit facili-
ties of the Federal Reserve System. For reasons he described, including 
plans presently in process for a meeting of representatives of the 
Federal and State banking authorities with officials of the bank to 
discuss its credit policies, Governor Robertson felt that the institu-
tion at this time of a step such as recommended in Chairman Lunding's 
letter would be premature. He proposed, therefore, that the letter 
be acknowledged with a statement that consideration would be given to 
the proposal at the appropriate time. 
After discussion of developments with respect to the bank, 
agreement was expressed with Governor Robertson's suggestion for 
handling the matter. A copy of the letter sent to Chairman Lunding 
pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 4. 
Annex building. Several matters were discussed with respect 
to the construction of the Board annex building. Authority was dele-
gated to Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson to work with the archi-
tects on the layout of office space, with the understanding that they 

3510 
9/18/68 
5 
need not come back to the Board in this connection unless problems arose 
on which they desired guidance. Also, it was agreed that arrangements 
should be made for a public opening of bids on the marble contract. 
In addition, it was agreed to include plans for a sauna-type room in 
the basement of the building. 
The meeting then adjourned 
Secretary 
c 
t " 
^ 
}-« i y_ a c i uvt t o o o t b 3 ^ & 
J 

'•f^LRE^V 
O 
b d a r d 
d f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
9/18/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1968, 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 21, 1968 the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation t o p u r c h a s e a n d h o d 
aDoroximately 10,000 additional shares of Pakistan Industrial Credit 
and Investment Corporation, Karachi, Pakistan, at a 
c
o
.
o
P
" 
imately $21,150, provided such shares are acquired within one year trom 
the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the -derstandingthatthe 
Guaranty International Banking Corporation, and that due considera 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

oer-4 <y 
Item No. 2 
9/18/68 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1968. 
Virgin Islands National Bank, 
Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, 
Virgin Islands. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Virgin Islands National Bank, St. Thomas, Charlotte 
Amalie, Virgin Islands, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in St. Johns, Antigua, West 
Indies, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for busi-
ness on or before October 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall be 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. Please advise the Board of Governors 
through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened 
for business. The Board should also be promptly informed of any future 
change in location of the branch in St. Johns, Antigua. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, advances 
or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes of the 
foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern with 
minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of payments, 
the above consent is given with the understanding that in the conduct of 
the bank's operations maximum reliance will be placed on resources ob-
tained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any 
investment required will be made within the guidelines established under 
the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank, and that due con-
sideration is given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3513 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
9/18/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1968. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In response to the request and information contained in 
your letter of August 2, 1968, the Board again amends the relevant 
portion of the first sentence of its letter of August 17, 1967, so 
that it reads: "...to purchase and hold up to an additional 1,000,000 
shares of capital stock of Banca Morgan Vonwiller S.p.A. ('Banca'), Milan, 
Italy, at a cost of approximately $1,650,000, provided such stock is 
acquired by November 30, 1968." 
The foregoing amendment is granted with the understanding 
that the investment in reference will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint program now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation, Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, and 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
viCi'-A.1! 
Item No. 4 
9/18/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 23, 1968 
Mr. Franklin J. Lunding, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
P. 0. Box 834, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Lunding: 
This acknowledges your letter of September 12, 1968, 
relating to Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan citing 
data contained in the report of examination of Bank as of May 3, 
1968 bearing upon and indicating the use being made by Bank ot 
bank'credit for speculative purposes. On the basis of your 
analysis, you conclude that use is being made of bank credit for 
the speculative carrying of securities and real estate and recom-
mend that the Board give consideration to suspension o Bank of 
the Commonwealth from use of the credit facilities of the Federal 
Reserve System, pursuant to the provisions of section 4, para-
graph 8, of the Federal Reserve Act. 
At a time believed by the Board to be proper in the 
light of all existing circumstances, y o u r recommendation will be 
considered by the Board and you will be advised of the Board s 
decision. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
