Minutes for October 23, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 
Amendment to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2 5 ) 1 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, October 23, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator and 
Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
2/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
2/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Assistant to the Secretary, Office 
of the Secretary 
Miss Ryon, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented, 
along with a report on legislative matters. Copies of the statistical 
charts and tables prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's 
files, along with copies of the individual briefings; these were also 
made available to all Board members. 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2 9 l 4 
10/23/70 
-2-
Open market policy memorandum. After several preliminary-
comments and suggestions had been made, further discussion of a 
memorandum from Mr. Partee dated October 9, 1970, regarding clearance 
for publication of an article entitled "Formulation and Implementation 
of Federal Reserve Open Market Policy" was deferred until Tuesday, 
October 27. 
t .-
Staff who had been present for the purpose of presenting the 
economic and financial review withdrew at this point or earlier, and 
several representatives of the Legal Division and the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation joined the meeting. 
First Wisconsin Bankshares. The Board authorized issuance of a 
proposed order reflecting the Board's action on October 1, 1970, approv-
ing the application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of First National Bank of Wausau, Wausau, 
Wisconsin. 
The Board also authorized issuance of a proposed order and 
statement reflecting the Board's action on October 6, 1970, approving 
the application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of West Racine Bank, Racine, Wisconsin. 
Copies of these documents, including concurring statements, are 
attached under Items 1 and 2. 
Pan American Bancshares. By unanimous vote, the Board approved 
'the applications of Pan American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to 

10/23/70 
-3-
acquire shares of (1) Commercial National Bank of Broward County, 
Broward County, Florida, and (2) University National Bank of Coral 
Gables, Coral Gables, Florida, and issuance of the proposed orders 
reflecting the Board's action was authorized. 
Copies of the orders are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
Competitive factor reports. The Comptroller of the Currency 
had requested reports on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed mergers of The First National Bank of Glenwood, Decatur, Georgia; 
The First National Bank of Tucker, Tucker, Georgia; First National Bank 
of Doraville, Doraville, Georgia; and First Bank of South DeKalb, Decatur, 
Georgia, into The First National Bank of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia. 
Because the staff, through the Atlanta Reserve Bank, was still 
m the process of investigating possible violations of the Bank Holding 
Company Act in this matter, the Legal Division, in a memorandum dated 
October 20, 1970, recommended that a letter be sent to the Comptroller 
stating that the Board was unable to file its reports until completion 
°f the investigation. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the letter to 
(2) . 
the Comptroller. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
United States Trust Company International Corporation. The 
ttoard unanimously approved the application of United States Trust Company 
International Corporation, New York, New York, for modification of the 
quarterly reporting requirement on temporary portfolio stock acquisitions 

2 9 1 B 
10/23/70 
-4-
by its wholly-owned subsidiary, Financiere UST S.A., Geneva, Switzerland. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Edge corporation is attached as Item No. 6. 
Bank of America. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of Bank of America, New York, New York, for permission to purchase and 
hold stock of Financiera Americana Sociedad Anonima, a financial company 
to be organized in Santiago, Chile. A copy of the letter sent to the 
Edge corporation is attached as Item No. 7. 
Governor Mitchell left the meeting at this point. 
Regulation Z matters. The Board agreed to publish for comment 
a proposed modification of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, concerned 
with the rescission notice in credit sales of vacant lots, as recommended 
in a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
October 15, 1970. 
In a memorandum dated October 16, 1970, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation recommended an amendment to Regulation Z which 
would: 
(1) require that prior notice of changes in the terms of open 
end accounts be sent only to customers having active accounts, with 
other customers to be notified when their accounts become active; and 
(2) specify that no prior notice is necessary in the event the creditor 
reduces the periodic rate without making any other changes. 
Governor Maisel raised some questions concerning the wording of 
the proposed amendment, but it was unanimously decided to adopt the sec-
tion concerning rate reductions effective immediately. It was understood 

2 J J X 7 
10/23/70 
-5-
that Governors Robertson and Maisel would confer with staff on the 
wording of the section concerning notice to inactive customers, and 
that the proposed amendment would then be published for comment in a 
form satisfactory to them. 
A copy of the amendment approved at this meeting is attached 
as Item No. 8. 
In connection with a memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
a 
and Regulation dated October 14, 1970, regarding seller's discounts, the 
Board unanimously agreed to adopt the Division's proposed interpretation 
of the pertinent section of Regulation Z. 
A copy of the interpretation is attached as Item No. 9. 
The Board unanimously agreed to publish for comment a proposed 
amendment to Regulation Z concerning advertising of transactions under 
section 235 of the National Housing Act, as recommended in a memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated October 16, 1970. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2 9 1 8 
Item No. 1 
10/23/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
First National Bank of Wausau, 
Wausau, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t 0 section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Wisconsin 
Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a 
registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior approval of 
th 
e acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
First National Bank of Wausau, Wausau, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
t^e Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

2 9 1 9 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on August 5, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12499), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company and banking 
°rganization in Wisconsin, controls 15 banks with aggregate deposits 
$1.4 billion, representing 16,5 per cent of the State's total 
deposits. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted 
t o reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
by 
the Board to date.) Bank has deposits of $15 million, and its 
sole office, located in Wausau, is 93 miles northwest of Applicant's 
Nearest subsidiary bank in Green Bay. Bank is the third largest of 
the seven banks operating in the area it serves and holds approxi-
mately 10 per cent of area deposits. The largest area bank, the 
lead bank of a registered bank holding company, holds about 61 per cent 

-3-
2 9 2 0 
of total area deposits, arid the second largest bank holds 
13 per cent of such deposits. It does not appear that consummation 
of the proposal would significantly increase concentration within 
any relevant area, or eliminate significant existing or potential 
competition, or have an undue adverse effect on other competing 
banks. On the contrary, in view of the size of competing organiza-
tions in the Wausau area, it appears likely that Bank's affiliation 
with Applicant will have a procompetitive effect, decreasing con-
centration and providing a significant alternative to the largest 
bank in the market. Considerations relating to the financial con-
dition, management, and prospects of Applicant, its present subsid-
iaries, and Bank are consistent with approval of the application. 
Although all significant banking needs of the Wausau community 
appear to be adequately met at present, the proposal would provide 
somewhat greater convenience to area residents. Bank would be afforded 
the means with which to become a more effective competitor to the 
largest bank in the area. International services, not now available 
from any area batik, and trust services would be offered through 
Applicant's lead bank. It is the Board's judgment that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 

2 3 2 1 
-3-
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 23, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns, and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Maisel and Sherrill. 
i• 
' 
. 
' 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

I 
I 
2 9 2 2 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
Although we concur in the Board's approval of the present 
application, based on the particular facts of this case, we wish to 
note our concern with respect to the increasing control exercised by 
Applicant over banking resources in the State of Wisconsin. Applicant 
is the State's largest bank holding company and banking organization; 
its lead bank is the largest in the State. The addition of First 
National Bank of Wausau to its group will give it control of about 
per cent of all commercial bank deposits in Wisconsin, whereas the 
second and third largest banking organizations in the State each hold 
less than 7 per cent of such deposits. It is also relevant to our 
concern that Applicant's lead bank serves as correspondent for more 
tllan 80 per cent of the banks in Wisconsin. 
The extent of Applicant's present influence requires that 
Particular caution be exercised with respect to proposals which x/ould 
ej<pQnd its system. In the instant case, ue are persuaded that the 
effect of the proposal in offering a potential for decreased concen-
tration and increased competition in the highly concentrated Wausau 
area outweighs any adverse effects which it may have. In joining in 
fcVi 
e Board's approval action, however, we wish to avoid any possibility 

2 9 2 3 
- 
2 
-
that such action may be misinterpreted as indicating a tolerant attitude 
toward increasing concentration in Wisconsin banking. It is our firm 
conviction that holding company expansion in the State, particularly 
by 
the largest organizations, should be subjected to the closest 
scrutiny under strict public interest standards, 
October 23, 1970. 

2 9 2 4 
Item No. 1 
10/23/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
West Racine Bank, Racine, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Wisconsin Bankshares 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of West Racine Bank, Racine, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Corrjnissioner 
Banking of the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and 
recorr,mendation. The Commissioner responded that he would take no 
action to disapprove the application. 

Z 3 Z 5 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 16, 1970 (35 Federal Register 11429), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the application so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
0r<*er, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 23, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Iiaisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
WEST RACINE BANK, RACINE, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of West Racine 
Bank, Racine, Wisconsin ("Bank"'). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by 
section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt of 
fche application to the Commissioner of Banking of the State of Wisconsin 
and requested his views and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner 
tesP°nded that he would take no action to disapprove the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
fchat the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
m°n°poly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 

part of the United States. Nor may ttte Board a^rove a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section bf the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend fco create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
be 
served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Wisconsin, all of which are bank holding 
companies,—^ control aggregate deposits of about $3.4 billion, representing 
^9.2 p e r cent of the deposits held by all corrmercial banks in the State. 
Applicant. 
the largest banking organization in the State, controls 15 banks 
with total deposits of $1.4 billion,—^ representing 16.7 per cent of 
the total State deposits. The acquisition of Bank ($24 million deposits) 
w°uld increase Applicant's share of such deposits by only 0.3 per cent. 
1/ 
In addition, three holding companies headquartered in Minnesota have 
subsidiary banks in Wisconsin. 
2/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1959, and reflect holding 
c°mpany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

2 9 2 8 
In processing this application, it was disclosed that two of 
Applicant's directors also serve as directors 
attofcher bank 
headquartered in Racine. Applicant has given assurances that in the 
event the application is approved, the interlocking relationships of 
these directors, which would apparently result in a violation of section 
8 of the Clayton Act and the Board's Regulation L, would be terminated 
Prior to its acquisition of Bank. 
The only office of Bank, located approximately two miles 
southwest of the downtown business district of Racine, primarily 
serves the city where it controls 11 per cent of the total commercial 
b*nk deposits. Bank is the fourth largest of seven banks headquartered 
^ Racine; the three largest hold total deposits of $86 million, 
million, and $27 million, respectively, controlling in the aggregate, 
7 4 Per cent of area deposits. At the present time there are no bank 
h°lding companies represented in the city. 
Racine is located 25 miles south of Milwaukee,where Applicant's 
lar8est and five other subsidiary banks are situated, and its closest 
inking office to Bank is also located in this area, approximately 23 miles 
t 0 the north of Racine. Applicant's largest subsidiary bank derives 
80tne b u s i ness from large corporations in the Racine area which require 
ubstantial financing not readily available from Racine banks. However, 
d°es not appear there is any meaningful competition between any of 
cant s present subsidiaries and Bank. Moreover, consummation of 
thi 
Proposal is not likely to eliminate any substantial amount of 
U r e competition between them, because of the distances involved and the 
ation of the banking markets. 

2 9 2 9 
The Boaird has considered the probability of competition 
developing between Applicant and Bank irt the event this application 
i 
is denied, either through Applicant's entry into the ftacine area by 
the chartering of a new bank or the acquisition of an existing smaller 
bank. In this regard, the Department of Justice advised the Board 
that in 
its opinion the acquisition would have an adverse effect on 
potential competition since Applicant could avail itself of either 
of the alternative means of entry into the market. However, in 
view of the circumstances presented by this record, the Board finds 
that the evidence does not indicate that Applicant would be likely 
to enter this area through other means in the event this proposal 
ls denied. 
or that entry de novo or through acquisition of a smaller 
bank would be significantly more desirable in this case from a 
competitive standpoint. 
Bank s total deposits have decreased by 
18 per cent since 1967, and its position among Racine banks has been 
changed from third to fourth largest bank in the city. It appears 
that the affiliation with Applicant could serve to strengthen Bank 
and enable it to become a more effective competitor in the area, 
Without having an undue adverse effect on any of the Racine banks. 
The proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
0 r he in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
"•onopoliae the business of banking in any relevant area. Approval 
the application and consummation of the proposal would not sub-
stantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain 
trade in any section of the country. 

-3-
2 9 3 0 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition and management of Applicant and its subsidiary 
banks are satisfactory and prospects for the group appear favorable. 
The financial condition of Bank is satisfactory and its 
prospects are reasonably favorable at this time. Management of the 
Bank is under the control of its president who has been seriously ill 
for the past two years. Applicant is capable of supplying needed 
Personnel and proposes to assist Bank in meeting its management 
problem. 
These considerations are consistent with, and provide some 
weight in favor of, approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the communities served by Applicant's present sub-
sidiaries would not be affected by consummation of the present 
Proposal. 
The major banking needs of the Racine area appear to be 
adequately served at the present time. However, Applicant proposes 
to 4 
improve Bank's present lending program and to improve and expand 
°ther services presently offered Bank's customers. For example, 
f-i 
e Present time Bank has no trust department; Applicant will provide 
counseling in trust and estate matters and in the field of international 
anking, i n order to enable Bank to make these services available to its 
Customers. 
It is concluded that considerations relating to the convenience 
and n j 
needs of the communities involved support approval of this application. 

2 9 3 1 
„ 
'i ivi-; l,:t' 
Surr.mdry and dtihclusipn, On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
October 23, 1970. 
4 

2932 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
As is the case with respect to the Board's approval 
of Applicant's proposal to acquire voting shares of First National 
Bank of Wausau, I agree with the Board's conclusion that, all things 
considered, Applicant's acquisition of West Racine Bank would be in 
the public interest. Once again, however, I do so because of the 
special circumstances involved, and despite serious and growing 
reservations with respect to the apparent acceleration of Applicant's 
acquisition program. 
Each succeeding acquisition by Applicant, by far the largest 
and most influential banking organization in Wisconsin, increases the 
likelihood of its domination of banking throughout the State. There-
fore, even in the absence of clear adverse effects in the market served 
by the bank involved, the danger of adverse effects on a State-wide 
level is sufficiently great that acquisitions by Applicant should not 
m 
approved except upon a strong and affirmative showing of public 
interest. 
In the present case, a combination of circumstances tips the 
balance in Applicant's favor. Bank is not only the fourth largest in 
fche Racine area - less than one-third as large as the largest bank in 
that area and about one-half as large as the second largest - but also 
h as had certain internal difficulties which preclude its being as 
ef£ective a competitor as its size would otherwise permit it to be. 
^he proposed acquisition will also have the incidental effect of 
Squiring the dissolution of an interlocking directorship between 

-2-
2 3 3 3 
Applicant and the area's second largest bank. Under these circumstances, 
I am persuaded that competitive conditions in the Racine area will be 
improved by consummation of the proposal and that this effect, coupled 
with anticipated improvements in the operations of West Racine Bank, 
outweighs the adverse effects implicit in the resulting expansion in 
the size and scope of Applicant's system. 
While these considerations appear to me to justify the present 
action, it does not necessarily follow that even identical considerations 
will justify favorable action on future applications. To the extent 
that consummation of the present proposal increases the banking resources 
under Applicant's control, it also increases the seriousness of the 
adverse effects involved in further expansion. Because the effect is 
cumulative and the balance, even with respect to the present case, is 
close, I regard the precedential effect of this decision as limited. 
n 
Pacifically, as Applicant's size increases, I believe that the Board 
should require a more convincing demonstration that contemplated improve-
ments in operations of the bank involved cannot be achieved in some 
alternative manner. Also, at some point the possibility must be 
considered that, because of Applicant's preeminent position, apparent 
improvements in local market structure may be illusory - it may be that, 
G V e n with a relatively small share of the local market, Applicant's 
°vcrv;helming size and correspondent banking connections will be such 
as to permit it to dictate competitive conditions x^ithin such a market, 
that point, I believe that further expansion should be prohibited. 

.i 
2 9 3 4 
It is difficult to state the precise point at which a given 
i 
banking organization reaches such size that further acquisition^ must 
be prohibited regardless of the particular facts of the case involved. 
Nevertheless, I am convinced that Congress, in requiring the Board to 
control the expansion of bank holding companies, contemplated that, at 
a minimum, the Board would draw the line against further acquisitions 
by a holding company whose size threatens the continued existence of 
a competitive banking structure, I am equally convinced that Applicant's 
size approaches that point.!/ Furthermore, I believe that any doubt as 
to where the line should be drawn must be resolved in favor of the 
Public interest, and not in favor of the Applicant. Therefore, while 
* join in the present action, I wish to go on record at this time as 
stating that my favorable vote on such acquisitions will be more diffi-
cult to obtain in the future. 
October 23, 1970. 
y It appears that two States, New Hampshire and New Jersey, have 
considered the point at which a line should be drawn against further 
acquisitions. Both have legislation which provides that no acquisi-
t i on should be approved by State authorities which will result in 
holding company's control of 20 per cent or more of the bank 
^posits of the State. (N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. 384-B: 3; N. J. 
^at. Ann. 17: 9A-345.) Applicant now controls about 17 per cent 
o f Wisconsin deposits. 

2 9 3 5 
Item No. 1 
10/23/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
PAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC., 
1 
Miami, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
1 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
' 
Commercial National Bank of Broward 
' 
County, Broward County, Florida. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
i842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Pan American Bancshares, Inc., 
Miami, Florida ("Applicant1')* a registered bank holding company, for 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per 
Cent of the voting shares of Commercial National Bank of Broward 
County, Broward County, Florida ("Commercial Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 20, 1970 (35 Federal Register 13335), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
°f the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and mana-
gerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the communities to be 
served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of 
million, which represents 1 per cent of total bank deposits in 
Florida. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1969 and reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
to date, with the exception of the Applicant's proposed acquisition 
°f Citizens National Bank of Orlando, approved by the Board on 
June 25, 1970. Applicant has notified the Board that it does not 
Intend to consummate that acquisition*) Applicant is presently the 
sixteenth 
largest banking organization in Florida, and, upon con-
firmation of the instant proposal and that to acquire University 
National Bank of Coral Gables, Coral Gables, Florida, also approved 
a s °f this date, would rank as the fifteenth largest, with control 
per cent of State deposits. 

2 9 3 7 
-3-
Commetciai bank (deposits $11.8 million) ranks as the fourteenth 
largest of 17 banks in the Fort Lauderdale area, holding 1*8 per cent of 
deposits in that market (the east-central section of Broward County)* 
It is sixth in size among seven banks competing directly in its service 
area. None of Applicant's subsidiaries, the closest of which is 30 miles 
south of Commercial Bank, compete in the Fort Lauderdale market, and 
such competition is unlikely to develop. Upon consummation of the pro-
posal, Applicant would be the smallest of three holding companies with 
subsidiaries in the market. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect 
competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, as applied 
to the facts of record, weigh heavily toward approval of the applica-
tion. Commercial Bank's prospects are regarded as only fair, mainly 
because of management and asset deficiencies, rather than conditions 
the market area. The change of ownership and management contemplated 
Applicant would likely result in improved prospects of the bank. 
Although the needs of the communities involved appear to be adequately 
served by present facilities, the public would benefit from the anti-
C*-Pated improvements in operations of the bank. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, 
aru} that the application should be approved. 

-3-
IT IS HEREfeV ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so appiroVed shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, 
or the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
di) \y 
/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 23, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting. Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2 9 3 9 
Item No. 1 
10/23/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
PAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC., 
Miami, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
University National Bank of Coral Gables, 
Coral Gables, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
^842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Pan American Bancshares, Inc., 
Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cent 
the voting shares of University National Bank of Coral Gables, 
C°ral Gables, Florida ("University Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
t^e Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller offered no objection to approval of the application. 

-2-
2 9 4 0 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 20, 1970 (35 Federal Register 13335), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the com-
munities to be served. Upon such consideration the Board finds 
that: 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of 
million, representing 1 per cent of total deposits in the State 
o f Florida. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1909, adjusted 
t o reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
b y t h e Board to date, with the exception of Applicant's proposed 
acquisition of Citizens National Bank of Orlando, approved by the 
Board on June 25, 1970. The Board has been advised that Applicant 
j 
0 e8 not intend to consummate that proposal.) Upon consummation of 
this proposal and that to acquire the Commercial National Bank of 

2 3 4 1 
-3-
Brox^ard County, approved by the Board on this date, Applicant would 
control 1.2 per cent of total State deposits, and would advance from 
the sixteenth to the fifteenth largest banking organization in 
Florida. 
University Bank (deposits $17 million) is the twenty-eighth 
largest of 69 banks located in Dade County, holding .6 per cent of 
county deposits. In its immediate service area, it holds 5.5 per cent 
°f deposits and is the eighth largest of 11 banks. 
Eight bank holding companies presently own 23 banks and hold 
63 q 
* P e r cent of deposits in Dade County. Applicant is the seventh 
largest of these; although all three of its subsidiary banks are located 
in Dade County, it controls only 4.2 per cent of county deposits, and 
v°uld control only 4.8 per cent upon consummation of the present 
pr°Posal. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary to University Bank is its lead 
bank, p a n American Bank, Miami, Florida (deposits $75 million), located 
eiSht miles northeast of University Bank. It is the only one of 
An 
Plicant's subsidiaries which competes to any extent with University 
Batik 
> and such competition appears limited. In view of University Bank's 
and the number, of banking alternatives intervening its location 
and the locations of the present subsidiaries, there is little lilceli-
ho0(j ., 
n at any significant competition will develop between it and any 
f applicant's subsidiaries in the future. 

-3-
2 9 4 2 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed transaction would have no significant adverse effect upon 
competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, as applied to the 
facts of record, weigh heavily in favor of approval of the application. 
University Bank's prospects are presently limited by management and 
asset weaknesses which would be corrected under Applicant's proposal. 
Applicant proposes to improve and expand the services of University Bank, 
and contemplated improvements in its condition and operation would 
benefit the public. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
ition would be in the public interest and that the application should 
b e approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
dded that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
fche thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
fchan three months after the date of this Order, unless such time be 
^tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 23> 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
OF 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C . 
20551 
& J J 3 
Item No. 1 
10/23/70 
A O O R C S 3 
O F F I C I A L C CJ R R E S P O N O E N C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 23, 1970 
The Honorable William B. Camp 
Comptroller of the Currency 
Treasury Department 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
Dear Mr. Comptroller: 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) you 
have requested the Board's views on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed mergers of First National Bank of Atlanta with The 
Fi rst National Bank of Glenwood, Decatur; First National Bank of 
Doraville; First National Bank of Tucker; ana the First Bank cf 
South DeKalb, Decatur, Georgia. 
As you are aware, the Board is investigating certain 
legal aspects of the present affiliations of the four banks with 
First National Bank of Atlanta. Pending the outcome of that inves-
tigation, the Board considers it inappropriate to comment on the 
proposals and is therefore unable to file its report at this time. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

m 
B O A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
O F 
T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 6 
10/23/70 
October 23, 1970 
United States Trust Company 
International Corporation, 
45 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of August 27, 
1970, regarding the reporting of acquisitions of shares 
under Section 211.8(a) of Regulation K by your subsidiary, 
Financiere UST S.A. ("Financiere"), Geneva, Switzerland. 
As requested in your letter, the Board of Governors 
grants permission for your Corporation on the behalf of 
Financiere to report, in connection with temporary acqui-
sitions of shares under Section 211.8(a) of Regulation K, 
up to a maximum of $200,000, and dispositions of such 
shares, only the names of the companies, the number of 
shares, and the amounts involved. 
Very truly ycurs 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2 9 4 5 
E 3 D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
o f t h e 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/23/70 
I'k] 5 : 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 23, 1970 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 10004 
Gentl emen: 
As requested in your letter of August 26, 1970, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("B of A") to pur-
chase and hold up to 95 per cent of the capital stock of Financiera 
Americana Sociedad Anonirna ("Financiera"), Santiago, Chile, at a cost 
°f approximately $28,500, provided the shares are acquired within two 
years from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
°f shares of Financiera by B of A is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That B of A shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Financiera if Financiera at 
any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if Financiera establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Chile or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible of B of A; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, B of A 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Financiera as it may require from 
time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Financiera 
be reported under Section 211.3(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Financiera were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

2 9 4 6 
Bank of America 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Financiera in Chile 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of Financiera. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation and Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association and its other subsidiaries, and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
nn 
. 
- 
; 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2 9 1 7 
Item No. 
1 
10/23/70 
TITLE 12--BANKS AMD BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BQARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
Changes In Open End Credit Accounts 
1. Effective immediately, § 226.7(e) is amended to read as 
follows: 
§ 226.7 Open End Credit Accounts — Specific Disclosures 
* * * * * 
(e) Change in terms. If any change is to be made in terms of 
a n open ond credit account plan previously disclosed to the customer, the 
creditor shall mail or deliver to the customer written disclosure of 
such proposed change not less than 30 days prior to the effective date of 
Such change or 30 days prior to the beginning of the billing cycle within 
V7hich such change will become effective, whichever is the earlier date. 
N o notice is necessary if the only change is a reduction in the periodic 
rate or rates applicable to the account. 
2a. The amendment consists of the addition of a sentence at 
ffcL -
"G conclusion of the present paragraph (e). The purpose of this amend-
ment is to allow creditors of open end accounts to reduce the periodic 
tate or rates applied to the accounts without" the necessity of giving 
a 30 day prior notice. It would apply enly when such reductions were 
Chft 
n e only changes being made to the terms of the account. 

-2U 
b. The amendment, which constitutes a relaxation of the 
present regulations of the Board, was adopted by the Board without 
following the procedures of section 553 of title 5, United States 
Code, relating to notice, public participation, and deferred effective 
date. 
In view of a situation which has arisen under the Wisconsin 
laws regarding usury and which requires immediate action such pro-
- cedures would result in delay that would be contrary to the public 
interest and serve no useful purpose. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 23, 1970. 
r, 
r 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
u E & e a l ] . 

Item No. 
1 
10/23/70 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(aeg. Z] 
PART 226—TRUTH IN LENDING 
Seller's Joints and Discounts under Regulation Z 
§ 226.406 Seller's points ana discounts under Regulation Z 
(a) 
Section 226.4(a) of Regulation Z includes in the finance 
charge any charge "payable directly or indirectly by the customer, and 
imposed directly or indirectly by the creditor as an incident to or as 
a condition of the extension of credit. . 
The question arises as 
to the proper treatment of discounts paid by the seller, including 
Pdnts imposed on the seller by the lender in connection with a real 
estate transaction. 
(b) Under the general rule in § 226.4(a), any such discount, 
to the extent it is passed on to the buyer through an increase in the 
Selling price, must be included in the finance charge. However, as a 
Practical matter, it may be difficult to determine whether or not a 
discount paid by the seller in connection with a real estate transaction 
has been, in fact, passed along to the customer as a part of the purchase 
Price of the property. The same situation may exist in other cases, 
example, those in which the creditor sells at a discount obligations 
Payable in more than four instalments. 
(c) The Board has concluded that in any such transaction coming 
Within its administrative enforcement authority, where seller's points 

2 9 5 0 
- 
2 
-
or discounts were, in fact, passed along to the customer or buyer and 
the amount thereof was not disclosed as a finance charge, the Board 
will take such action as may be appropriate in the circumstances. 
However, it will not attempt to prescribe rules creating a presumption 
that all discounts or points are passed on to the customer or buyer and 
hence must be included in the finance charge in any particular class 
of transaction. 
On the other hand, the inclusion of seller's points 
or discounts in the finance charge will be acceptable to-the Board as -
a correct disclosure under Regulation Z. 
(d) This position relates only to the Board's administrative 
enforcement procedures and it is not intended in any way to restrict 
°r prejudice the rights of any customer or buyer to bring an action 
under sections 130 and 131 of the Act where he has reason to 
believe he is or was required to pay directly or indirectly a finance 
charge imposed directly or indirectly by the creditor of the trans-
action and the amount of that finance charge was not disclosed to him. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1605) 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 23, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
