MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 28, 1972 

1972 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, July 28, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1./ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Those who had attended the meeting for the purpose of the economic 
review then withdrew. 
Mr. Melnicoff reported on a recent meeting of the Committee on 
Interest and Dividends at which various representatives of the financial 
community had stated judgments on the future course of interest rates. 
Messrs. Cardon and Rippey then reviewed matters of interest to 
the Board presently being considered by the Congress. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

I S ' 
7/28/72 
-2-
Watergate incident. Mr. Cardon reported that Mr. O'Connell 
and he had attended a meeting with members of Senator Proxmire's 
staff to discuss the Senator's request that the Board furnish him with 
information it had furnished to the FBI in connection with the alleged 
bugging of the Democratic National Committee headquarters. 
The Board 
had been unwilling to turn over the information because the United 
States Attorney for the District of Columbia had requested that it not 
do so. The Senator's staff requested that, instead of simply relying 
on the United States Attorney's request, the Board should ascertain 
from the United States Attorney the reason for his request, and then 
should determine whether to comply with it. 
The Chairman had determined to reject the request of Senator 
Proxmire's staff, and the Board unanimously agreed with that position. 
A copy of the letter sent by the Chairman to Senator Proxmire is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Congressional testimony. Governor Mitchell requested guidance 
from the Board in connection with his forthcoming testimony before the 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, which had been 
discussed by the Board on Thursday, July 27. In addition to matters 
discussed therein, Governor Mitchell was being asked by the Committee 
to report the Board's views on an amendment to bill H. R. 15656 that 

7/28/72 
-3-
would require that all banks cash without charge Federal Government 
checks presented by persons with proper identification. A consensus 
developed that Government checks should be easy to cash, and that 
banks (as opposed to Post Offices or other Federal instrumentalities) 
should be the appropriate organizations for doing so. However, because 
handling charges would be involved, and because certain banks might 
suffer losses, it was agreed to recommend to the Committee that the 
Government should reimburse banks in these instances. 
(A copy of 
Governor Mitchell's testimony, as presented to the Committee on 
August 1, 1972, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Consent calendar. As recommended in a memorandum from the 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans dated June 15, 
1972, the Board unanimously approved a request by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York for permission to assume, on an interim basis, the 
pro rata share of the operating expenses of the Bergen County, New 
Jersey, Check Clearing Bureau on behalf of three large New Jersey banks 
in exchange for an agreement by those banks to fine-sort their checks 
drawn on clearing bureau participants. A copy of the letter sent to 
the Bank is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Citizens 
Commercial Bank, Celina, Ohio, to merge The Peoples Bank Company, 

1 9 7 5 
7/28/72 
-4-
Fort Recovery, Ohio, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
7/28/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. I'05'31 
July 28, 1972 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
Chairman 
Joint Economic Committee 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Mr, Chairman: 
Our general counsel, Mr. OfCouncil, has reported to me that at 
the conclusion of a conference with your staff yesterday afternoon, 
he was asked to consult once again with the U.S. Attorney for the 
District of Columbia regarding the Watergate affair. 
Twice before he has consulted with the U.S. Attorney on this ques-
tion, most recently on Wednesday of this week. Twice before I 
have consulted not only with the board's legal advisers but also 
with the other Members of the Board, including Vice Chairman 
Robertson, who is, as you know, a lawyer with considerable 
experience in law enforcement. 
Our legal advisers have recommended that the Board honor the 
judgment of th e U.S. Attorney, The Board unanimously has decided 
to do so, after reviewing the question yesterday morning. We feel 
that the responsible course is to extend to the enforcement author-
ities the cooperation they say is necessary for the successful inves-
tigation and prosecution of this case. None of us here at the Beard 
feel that any good purpose would be served by going back a third 
time t:o the U.S. A11orn.ey. 
Your charge chat the Board "is covering up for someone high in 
the Executive Branch" is deeply resented. 
This charge is totally 
witliout foundation. 
So that the record will be complete, I respectfully request that: this 
letter be inserted at an appropriate place in the record of the hearing. 
Sincerely your 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
/rthur F„ Burns 

" • " 
t'iAl rC* * 
1 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
* ' 
. v 
o V c o V / ; . 
• 
f 
t
h
e 
1 1 e m 
N o . 
2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/28/72 
,c 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R t T . P D N D E N ' C E 
TCJ T H E 
B O A R D 
July 28, 1972 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
1.0045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors approves your request 
to assumej on an interim basis, the pro rata share of 
the operating expenses of the Bergen County, New Jersey, 
Check Clearing Bureau on behalf of certain participating 
banks in exchange for an agreement by those banks to 
fine«sort their checks drawn on clearing bureau partici-
pants. The Board understands that this arrangement will 
terminate with the. establishment of an enlarged Regional 
Check Processing Center no later than June, 1973. 
The Board, further, approves an increase in 
the budget of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of 
approximately $3,000 monthly for this purpose. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
As si s t ant: S ecr e tar y 

1378 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
7/28/72 
THE CITIZENS COMMERCIAL BANK 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
The Citizens Commercial Bank, Celina, Ohio ("Celina Bank"), 
a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied for 
the Board's approval pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 
1828(c)) of the merger of that bank with The Peoples Bank Company, 
Fort Recovery, Ohio ("Fort Recovery Bank"), under the charter and 
title of Celina Bank. As an incident to the merger, the single 
office of Fort Recovery Bank would become a branch of the resulting 
bank. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in 
form approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has 
reauested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, 
the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
The Board has considered the application and all comments 
and reports received in the light of the factors set forth in the 
Act, and finds that: 
Celina Bank ($25 million deposits)-^ operates its only 
two offices in Mercer County (population of 35,600) where it ranks 
as the second largest of the seven county banks, controlling 25 per 
cent of aggregate deposits. 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1971. 

-2-
1979 
Fort Recovery Bank is the smallest bank in Mercer County 
with deposits of $7 million. 
Its only office is located in Fort 
Recovery and is separated by a distance of 20 miles from Celina 
Bank's closest office. There is no main road connecting these 
offices, two competing banks are located in the intervening area, 
and another competing bank is located in Fort Recovery. Although 
Celina and Fort Recovery Banks are located in the same county 
their service areas do not overlap. No meaningful competition 
exists between them which would be eliminated by consummation 
of this proposed merger. 
The largest of the county banks ($27 million deposits) 
has requested permission of the Comptroller of the Currency to 
merge with the sixth largest county bank ($8 million deposits). 
The resulting bank emerging from consummation of the instant 
proposal would hold 32 per cent of county deposits. 
It appears 
unlikely that any of the three small county banks would merge 
due to their overlapping market areas. Fort Recovery is not 
an attractive area for de novo entry by Celina Bank or others 
since there are presently two banking offices serving this 
village of 1,348 persons, and there appears to be no immediate 
prospect for economic expansion of the area. It is also apparent 
that Fort Recovery Bank does not have sufficient financial resources 
to permit it to establish a new branch in the Celina area, 
d 

_ 
1SS0 
-3-
A report from the Department of Justice on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger stated that whereas there 
was only a limited amount of existing competition between the two 
institutions, consummation of the proposal would have an adverse 
effect on competition which would be compounded by consummation 
of the other pending Mercer County proposed merger. The Department 
cited the elimination of an alternative source of banking within 
the county, and the increased concentration of banking resources 
in the localized market as adverse factors affecting competition. 
Conversely, a report from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
concluded that the proposed merger would not eliminate any signifi-
cant existing competition between them or any significant potential 
for increased competition through de novo branching, and that 
although the concentration of banking resources in Mercer County 
area would be increased, there would remain numerous conveniently 
available banking alternatives. The Corporation concluded that 
the proposed merger would have no significant effects on competi-
tion in any relevant area. The report from the Comptroller of 
the Currency also determined that the proposed merger would have 
no anticompetitive results. 
On the basis of the record, the reports from other agencies, 
and in view of the circumstances attendant upon banking in the relevant 
areas hereinbefore discussed, the Board is of the opinion that con-
summation of this merger would have only a slightly adverse effect 
on existing or potential competition, and that the increase in 
concentration of banking resources in Mercer County would not signifi-
cantly affect competition in the relevant areas. 

The financial and managerial resources of Celina Bank are 
generally satisfactory and prospects for the resulting bank appear 
favorable. The merger would strengthen the Fort Recovery office and 
would also solve its present management succession problems. Con-
siderations relating to banking factors are consistent with, and 
lend some weight, toward approval of the application. 
Considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
also lend weight toward approval since the merger of the two banks 
would make possible expanded loans for Fort Recovery Bank's customers 
as well as an increase in the number and dollar volume of residential 
mortgages; and the availability of new services to include Bank Ameri 
card and Line-O-Credit services. Consequently, the banking factors 
as well as the convenience and needs aspects outweigh the slightly 
adverse competitive consequences of this proposed merger. 
Based 
upon the foregoing, it is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
the proposal would be in the public interest, and that the applica-
tion should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 

-5-
1982 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority, 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 28, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Daane, 
Brimmer, and Bucher. 
