Minutes for 
June 10, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

2 1 6 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 10, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Wood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Noble and Sanders of the Legal Division 
Mr. Lyon of the Division of Examinations 
Application of Huntington Bancshares (Items 1 and 2). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's action on May 13, 1968, approving the application of Huntington 
Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of The Savings Bank Company, Chillicothe, 
Ohio. 

Z l & B 
6/10/68 
-2-
After discussion, the issuance of the order and statement was 
authorized. Copies of the documents, in the form in which they were 
issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Special drawing rights legislation (Item No. 3). The Board 
.approved unanimously a letter to the Bureau of the Budget recommending 
approval by the President of an enrolled bill, H.R. 16911, to provide 
for U.S. participation in the facility based on special drawing rights 
in the International Monetary Fund. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 3. 
Licensing of Edge corporations to trade in gold. 
In a letter 
of May 10, 1968, American International Bank, New York, New York, an 
Edge corporation, requested a determination by the Board whether it 
would be permissible under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
for it to obtain a license from the Treasury Department to purchase, 
import, and sell gold bullion to authorized industrial, professional, 
and artistic users in the United States. The Legal Division had sub-
mitted to the Board a draft of reply that would conclude that such 
activities under a Treasury license would be legally permissible. 
During preliminary discussion of the matter on May 21, 1968, it was 
brought out that subsequent to the issuance of the central bank commu-
nique of March 17, 1968, regarding transactions in gold the Treasury 
Department had issued 60-day licenses to several national banks (among 
others). The Legal Division was requested to study the matter further 

/OJ. / U 
6/10/68 
-3-
in consultation with the Divisions of International Finance and Exami-
nations . 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated June 6, 1968, 
from the Legal Division setting forth reasons in support of the recom-
mendation that in the circumstances, rather than question whether 
banks or Edge corporations have the basic corporate authority to deal 
in gold, the better alternative would be to reply to American Inter-
national Bank along the lines of the draft previously submitted to the 
Board, and for the Board's staff, if the Board so desired, then to take 
up with Treasury staff the question of licensing banks and Edge corpo-
rations. Equal treatment of banks and Edge corporations in this respect 
seemed to be an important principle. 
Governor Robertson agreed with sending the proposed letter to 
American International Bank. Before the policy question was taken up 
with the Treasury, however, he thought the Board should have the bene-
fit of a memorandum from the Division of International Finance. 
Governor Brimmer expressed regret that the Treasury had not 
discussed the matter with the Board before it granted licenses to 
banks following the issuance of the March 17 communique. He thought 
such action had been taken too rapidly and without weighing the impli-
cations. While he conceded that there appeared to be no basis for 
discriminating against an Edge corporation if other financial institu-
tions were to be granted licenses, that was a secondary question. 
The 

v l 
6/10/68 
-4-
real question was whether it was desirable to create an environment in 
which any institution could deal in gold, and he thought the answer 
was negative, at least in this transitional period. 
If the Board felt 
it must respond to American International Bank solely on the basis of 
legal permissibility, he would not object. His preference, however, 
would be to defer taking a stand with respect to Edge corporations 
until the Board and the Treasury could focus on policy considerations. 
He advocated requesting the Treasury not to issue any new licenses to 
financial institutions in the interim, and if at all possible to inval-
idate the ones outstanding. 
Governor Mitchell observed that gold policy was a Treasury 
prerogative; although the Board could advise and consult with the 
Treasury, the latter made the decisions. 
It seemed to him that the 
draft letter merely held that it was legally permissible for an Edge 
corporation to perform certain activities. 
After a discussion of the scope of operations in gold permitted 
under Treasury license, there was general agreement that the question 
would be considered further when the Board had available the material 
being prepared by the Division of International Finance. 
Matters held in abeyance. Reference was made to (1) a memo-
randum from the Legal Division dated June 7, 1968, regarding the 
applicability of the reserve requirements of Regulation D and the 
interest limitations of Regulation Q to notes issued by a foreign 

217 
6/10/68 
-5-
subsidiary of an Edge corporation and guaranteed by the parent member 
bank, and (2) a memorandum from the Legal Division dated June 6, 1968, 
concerning whether a member bank's liability to repurchase participa-
tions in pools of its mortgage loans would give rise to deposits for 
the purposes of Regulations D and Q. 
Certain other divisions of the staff, as specified, were 
requested to produce memoranda on one or more aspects of the foregoing 
questions, and it was understood that consideration of these matters 
would be deferred until the requested memoranda were available. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland 
and Forrestal. 
Gift to National Bank of Denmark. The Board authorized the 
purchase of a suitable gift, at a cost of approximately $175, for 
presentation to the National Bank of Denmark on the occasion of the 
celebration of that institution's 150th anniversary, at which it was 
expected that the Board would be represented. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to International Banking Corporation, New 
York, New York, acknowledging receipt of 
advice that The Mercantile Bank of Canada, 
Montreal, Canada, intended to establish an 
additional branch in Canada, to be located 
in Montreal. 
Governor Sherrill today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the 
following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 

6/10/68 
-6-
Appointments 
Gertrude E. Booth as Secretary, Office of the Secretary, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $6,752, effective June 17, 1968. 
Linda Wing as Secretary, Division of Personnel Administration, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,565, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Transfers 
Christine Klaput, from the position of Clerk-Typist in the Banking 
Section to the position of Stenographer in the National Income, Labor 
Force, and Trade Section, Division of Research and Statistics, with no 
change in basic annual salary at the rate of $4,995, effective June 16, 
1968. 
Ernest L. Simon, from the position of Cafeteria Laborer to the 
position of Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, with no 
change in basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective June 16, 
1968. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Paul F. McGouldrick, Economist, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, effective the close of business June 21, 1968. 
Samuel H. O'Neal, Jr., Production Control Clerk, Division of Data 
Processing, effective the close of business June 7, 1968. 
Wingf ield Roberts, Programmer, Division of Data Processing, effec-
tive the close of business June 7, 1968. 
Preston McNeary, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
cf fee tive the close of business June 6, 1968. 
Theresa Kathleen Pinckney, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Adminis-
trative Services, effective.the close of business May 31, 1968. 
Termination of employment 
Lamon McGhee, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business May 31, 1968. 

6/10/68 
-7-
On June 10, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Director of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
approving the appointment of Clouet J. Thibodaux 
as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative at the 
New Orleans Branch. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, approving an investment in 
bank premises. 
Item No 
Secretary 

« > <f v-.fr' 
Item No. 1 
6/10/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of
 1 
i 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED,
 1 
> Columbus, Ohio, 
' 
for approval of the acquisition of
 
1 
80 per cent or more of the voting
 
1 
shares of The Savings Bank Company,
 1 
Chillicothe, Ohio.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
t 
.
.
. 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, 
Columbus, Ohio, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior 
aPproval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
o f The Savings Bank Company, Chillicothe, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of Banks for 
fche State of Ohio, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 

/OX ^ b 
- 2 -
\ . . 
. • . "A 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 26, 1968 (33 Federal Register 5022), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
t h e 
t h*rtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
fchan three months after the date of the Order, unless such period is 
^tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Uashington, D. C., this 10th day of June, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Daane and Sherrlll. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 2 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
6/10/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED, COLUMBUS, OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE SAVINGS BANK COMPANY, CHILLICOTHE, OHIO 
STATEMENT 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of The Savings Bank Company, Chillicothe, 
°hio ("Savings Bank"). Applicant controls two subsidiary banks with 
1/ 
aSgregate total deposits of $390 million as of June 30, 1967. 
Savings 
Bank, with total deposits of about $18 million, operates two offices in 
C hillicothe, Ohio. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
t o> and views and recommendation requested of, the Superintendent of Banks 
the State of Ohio. He recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
• i • 
ii i • I 
w^immmmmrn——————» 
L n a t the 
Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
m°nopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
-
 
B anking data are as of this date unless otherwise noted. 

-2-
2178 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly out-
weighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
e ach case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community 
t o be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 13 largest 
^nking organizations in Ohio control 52.8 per cent of the total deposits 
held by all commercial banks located in the State. Applicant, the third 
l a rgest of four~^ bank holding companies located in Ohio, is the eleventh 
l a rgest banking organization in the State, and controls 2.28 per cent of 
S u c h deposits. Upon acquisition of Savings Bank, which holds .11 per 
c®nt of State deposits, Applicant would be the tenth largest banking 
°
rS
anization in Ohio. 
Chillicothe, the situs of both of Savings Bank's offices, is 
t h e county seat of Ross County. Seven Banks are located in the County, 
t h e three largest of which are in Chillicothe. Savings Bank, with $17.8 
m i H i o n in deposits (equal to 27 per cent of county deposits), is second 
l n cludes First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, formation of 
^
 w a s approved by the Board on June 5, 1968. 

2179 
in size in both Chillicothe and Ross County. The two other Chillicothe 
banks have deposits of $13.5 million and $25 million, respectively; the 
four other Ross County banks are located from 12 to 19 miles from Chilli-
cothe and hold total deposits ranging from $1»6 million to $3.7 million. 
The nearest offices of Applicants present subsidiaries, The 
Huntington National Bank of Columbus, Columbus (Franklin County), Ohio, 
and The Washington Savings Bank, Washington Court House (Fayette County), 
°hio, are located 42 miles and 30 miles, respectively, from Savings Bank. 
As indicated by the foregoing discussion, consummation of 
Applicant's proposal uould have an insignificant effect on State-wide 
concentration, and would have no effect on concentration in any relevant 
area within the State. It does not appear that the proposed transaction 
would result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination, con-
spiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant 
area. 
It does not appear that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
v°uld have any adverse effect on existing or potential competition. Neither 
o f A p p i i c a n t i g p r e S e n t subsidiaries derives meaningful business from Ross 
County, and the extent of Savings Bank's penetration of Franklin and 
P ayette Counties is similarly insignificant. Potential competition between 
Savi ng s Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries is limited by the same factors 
V 7 hich have inhibited competition between them in the past, as well as by 
a State prohibition against branching outside of the home office county. 
l?hile a f f i i i a t i 0 n Q f Savings Bank with Applicant might reasonably be 
expected to increase the competitive effectiveness of Savings Bank, such 

-4-
2160 
3 result is viewed by the Board as a desirable one which should not 
adversely affect the viability of its competitors. 
In the light of the foregoing considerations, and all the facts 
record, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor 
Ift any other manner restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - The 
financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant and its subsid-
iary banks are regarded as satisfactory. 
Savings Bank's general financial condition is also satisfactory. 
However, the bank's tuo top ranking officers are at or above normal retire-
m e n t age, and it is asserted that Savings Bank lacks sufficient depth of 
middle management to fill the anticipated vacancies. Uhile it appears that 
S avings Bank should be able, through its own efforts, to attract new manage-
m e n t P
ersonnel as needed, affiliation with Applicant would assure a satis-
factory solution of this problem. This consideration, as well as the 
atlticipated improvements in Savings Bank's service rendition noted hereinafter, 
i n dicates t h a t t h e p r o p o s e c j affiliation would have a favorable effect on the 
^ank'3 prospects, and lend some weight toward approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consummation 
^ Applicant's proposal would not affect the convenience and needs of 
C U stomers located in the areas served by Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
Ross County has an estimated population of 65,000, with about 
42 p e r cent of this number residing in Chillicothe, the trade center of 
the vpurity. The economy of Chillicothe is largely dependent on four 

-5-
mkaiifacturing companies and retail and service establishments; the 
economy of the remainder of the County, which ranks second in land area 
and thirty-fourth in population among Ohio
fs C8 counties, is based pri-
marily on agriculture, with hogs, cattle, corn, and dairy products the 
principal sources of farm income. 
The commercial banks which serve Chillicothe and Ross County 
Provide a full range of banking services. Savings Bank, however, does 
not appear to have aggressively sought to develop its full potential for 
service to the area. A large portion of its loan portfolio consists of 
mortgage and instalment loans. According to Applicant, the bank has made 
little 
effort to solicit commercial and industrial loans, and, despite 
the fact that there are 1,300 farms in Ross County, loans to farmers 
constitute only about one per cent of Savings Bank's loan portfolio. 
Applicant asserts that Bank's failure to respond to the service needs of 
the Chillicothe-Ross County area is further indicated by the lack of 
Parking or drive-up facilities at Bank's downtown office, and Bank's in-
action with respect to a needed expansion of its existing branch office, 
with respect to provision for additional branches in or near newly 
instructed shopping centers in Chillicothe. 
The experience of Uashington Savings Bank under Applicant's 
direction is indicative of Applicant's ability to lend assistance to a 
subsidiary's efforts to better serve community needs. Since Applicant's 
a cquisition of Washington Savings Bank in June 1967, new management has 
b e e n installed in the bank; a remodeling of the bank's office has been 
started, and site plans for a new branch are nearing completion; the 

S i f t 
-6-
bank's loan to deposit ratio has increased significantly, and the dollar 
volume of its argicultural loans has doubled. Recently, a check credit 
Plan was inaugurated, and the bank's interest rate on time certificates 
of deposit has been raised to a level maintained by other banks in Fayette 
County. 
Based on the apparent need of the Chillicothe and Ross County 
communities for stronger financial leadership, and the proven willingness 
at*d ability of Applicant to provide it, considerations bearing on the 
convenience and needs factor support approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
f a c t s contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
i n s e c t i o n 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
J u n e 10, 1963. 

2lR3 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
6/10/68 
v t 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
June 10, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your communication of June 7, 
requesting the views and recommendations of the Board of 
Governors with respect to the enrolled bill, H.R. 16911, "To 
provide for United States participation in the facility based 
on Special Drawing Rights in the International Monetary Fund, 
and for other purposes." 
The Board favors the proposed legislation and 
recommends that the enrolled bill be approved by the President. 
Sincerely, 
'J L »„;. 
. .. . 
, 
. 
J. L. Robertson 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 

/O 1 8 4 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
6/10/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 11, 1968 
M r . Edwin I. Hatch, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear M r . Hatch: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Personnel Administration has approved the request contained in your 
letter of May 31, 1968, for the appointment of M r . Clouet J. Thibodaux 
as an additional Federal Reserve Agent's Representative at the New Orleans 
Branch. 
This approval is given with the understanding that M r . Thibodaux 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of 
Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, during 
the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy in 
that office, his responsibility will be to the Assistant Federal Reserve 
Agent and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Federal 
Reserve Agent's Representative, M r . Thibodaux may, with the approval ot the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the Vice President in charge of the New Orleans 
Branch, perform such work for the Branch as will not be inconsistent 
with his duties as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative. 
It will be appreciated if M r . Thibodaux is fully informed of 
the importance of his responsibilities as a member of the statt ot une 
Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from 
the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
Please have M r . Thibodaux execute the usual O a t h o f O f f i c e v h i c h 
should be forwarded to the Board of Governors together with notification 
of the effective date of his appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANK OF 
PHILADELPHIA 
2 1 8 5 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 5 
6/10/68 
>f,S' i 
June 10, 1968 
«... 
'4? 4 A.': 
Mr. Carl K. Dellmuth, President 
The Fidelity Bank 
Broad and Walnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19109 
Daar Mr. Dellmuth: 
Under date of June 28y^96^r-4AeNBoard of Govei 
of the Federal Reserve System ao^rov^tf thejeskablishraent by The 
fidelity Bank of a branch offi<Vat^55 H ^ t h fork Road, Willow 
Grove, Upper Moreland Township, Hontg<y«*ry County, Pennsylvania, 
provided the branch was ^atablisheKwitherane year of the 
•foresaid date. 
Your 
to house the bra 
•ny unforeseen de 
the end ofMigust. 
P'lor tar<JunK28, 
in wt 
This 
t h e y F e W a l Res 
June\2 8^1968 th 
U s h aSbrmach 
Morelan* 
rett*t 
1968\staWis that the building 
h 
more fhanNialf comj*£eted and that, barring 
s \ i t is p W m W l to open the office before 
owfeyer, since it cannot be open for business 
196GL vfcu reduesjr an extension of the tine with-
bVanch ca 
shed. 
to advfcle you that the Board of Governors of 
reVSystem has extended for six months from 
tiV* within which The Fidelity Bank may estab-
flcc/at 65 North York Road, Willow Grove, Upper 
"Montgomery County, Pennaylvania. 
in connection with the establishment of the proposed 
branch, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, under data 
June 28, 1967, approved, under the provisions of Section 24A 
the Federal Reserve Act, an additional Investment of $100,000 
in bank premises incident to the establishment of the proposed 
°ffice. It was planned, originally, that the owner of the tract 
land of the branch site would construct a building and lease it 
t o your bank for an extended term of years. We understand from 
letter of June 5, 1968, that the owner has been unable to obtain 
financing for the project at a suitable rate, and, accordingly, in 
°rdar to retain the site, it was necessary for The Fidelity Bsnk to 
Purchase the ground and construct the building. As the result of 
t h * « change in plans your bank's investment in bank premises for this 
b**nch will be i n c r e a s e d from $100,000 to $390,000. Accordingly, you 
'•quest authorisation under Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act 
f o * an additional investment in bank premises of $290,000, the excess 
the $100,000 approved originally. 

tMW 
o 
«o 
ERAL R E S E R V E B A N K O F P H I L A D E L P H I A 
1 8 6 
Pa 
q e n o . 
2 
t o 
C a r l K . Dellmuth, President 
6 / 1 0 / 6 8 
Under the provisions of Section 24A of the Federal Reserve 
*ct (12 U.S.C. 371(d)), the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, on 
*>®half of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and 
acting under delegated authority from said Board, approves an additional 
investment of $290,000 by The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
in bank premises in connection with the establishment of your proposed 
branch at 65 North York Road, Willow Grove, Upper Moreland Township, 
tontgomery County, Pennsylvania. This approval increases the amount 
that may be invested in bank premises for this branch, under Section 24A 
the Federal Reserve Act, to $390,000. This approval is granted in 
v*«w of the following factors: 
1. The capitalization of The Fidelity Bank, 1 Lladel-
phia, Pennsylvania, at present is consider! 
in relation to the character and condition 
assets and to its deposit llabllljtlai ant! 
corporate responsibilities, including the 
of its risk assets and of its ?w|rginal and 
quality assets, all considea^eji-^Nrelation to 
strength of the bank's marfartement; 
adequate 
2. 
Upon completion of th^\t^oposed 
bank's aggregate investment ( 
in bank premises plus the 
wholly-owned bapk^gr^telaes 
exceed 40 perzenfoftheNbank 
funds (including capitai\notes 
plus valuation reserves. 
'estment, the 
ct and indirect) 
tedness of any 
idiary will not 
otal capital 
!d debentures) 
cerely, 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 
