Minutes for June 16, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Amendment to Regulation Q, Payment of 
Interest on Deposits. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials _will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
V 
W L 
rt—V1 
jpt 7y\ 
Pr 
PJ 

less 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 16, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Mertz, Plotkin, and Via and Mrs. Duerson 
of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy and Lawrence and Mrs. Small of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Harris, Pounds tone, and Sanford of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Advertising regulations (Items 1 and 2). There had been 
distributed a draft of amendment of Regulation Q, Payment of Interest 
Deposits, relating to advertising of interest on deposits. Also 
distributed was a draft of press release contemplated for issuance 
tomorrow. 

1956 
6/16/69 
-2-
Governor Robertson stated that a similar rule had been approved 
by the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and that the Federal Home Loan Bank Board was going to take formal 
action today or tomorrow. Thus, uniformity of regulations would be 
achieved, and it was hoped that the regulations would be announced by 
all of the agencies tomorrow. 
The amendment to Regulation Q was approved unanimously, effec-
tive August 1, 1969. Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of the press 
release pertinent to this action; attached as Item No. 2 is a copy of 
the amendment to Regulation Q in the form in which it was sent to the 
Federal Register. 
Application of Roachdale Bank and Trust Company. Roachdale 
Bank and Trust Company, Roachdale, Indiana, had made application to 
the Board for permission to merge The State Bank of Russellville, 
Russellville, Indiana. It had also made application to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation for permission to purchase the assets 
and assume the liabilities of Russellville Bank, Russellville, Indiana, 
an uninsured private bank. Under State branching laws, Roachdale 
Bank could not establish a branch in Russellville as long as there was 
a bank headquartered therein; accordingly, it was seeking to acquire 
both of the banks in the town. 
The Board had received favorable Reserve Bank and staff 
recommendations on the proposed merger. It also had before it a draft 

1957 
6/16/69 
-3-
of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the compet-
itive factors involved in the proposed acquisition of Russellville 
Bank. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the effect on 
competition of the proposed transactions would be adverse, leaving the 
question whether other factors were sufficient to outweigh that 
negative consideration. Governor Daane agreed. 
Governor Maisel suggested bringing out the reason why, under 
State law, the acquisition of both of the Russellville banks was 
essential. 
Governor Brimmer noted that one of the benefits of the proposed 
transactions would be to eliminate an uninsured bank. He felt that 
the advantages in terms of convenience and needs were sufficient to 
outweigh the competitive effect, which he agreed should be regarded 
as adverse. Governor Sherrill concurred. 
The application of Roachdale Bank and Trust Company to merge 
The State Bank of Russellville was then approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that an order and statement would be drafted for 
the Board's consideration and that the issuance of the order would not 
be authorized until a report on competitive factors had been received 
from the Department of Justice. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Russellville Bank 
by Roachdale Bank and Trust Company was approved unanimously for 

1 9 5 8 
6/16/69 
-4-
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in a form 
in which the conclusion read as follows: 
Since there is competition existing among Russellville 
Bank, The State Bank of Russellville, and Roachdale Bank 
and Trust Company, particularly between the two banks in 
Russellville, the effect of the proposed acquisitions on 
competition would be adverse. 
Mr. Egertson was authorized to advise the FDIC informally 
that, with respect to the proposed merger with State Bank of 
Russellville, the Board had concluded that benefits under the other 
factors outweighed the adverse effect seen from the competitive 
standpoint. 
Application for foreign branch (Item No. 3). An application 
by Security Pacific National Bank, Los Angeles, California, for 
permission to establish a branch in London, England, was approved 
unanimously. 
Governor Brimmer referred, however, to the Board's letter of 
June 3, 1969, requesting member banks to refrain from soliciting 
deposits at their foreign branches that would otherwise be placed 
in the U.S. He suggested that the point be stressed in each letter 
approving an application for a foreign branch. 
It was agreed that a paragraph would be worked out, in a 
form satisfactory to Governor Brimmer, for inclusion in the letters 
to Security Pacific National Bank and to future applicants for 
foreign branches. 

6/16/69 
-5-
Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of the letter subsequently 
sent to Security Pacific National Bank. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of State Bank & Trust Company, 
Greenville, North Carolina, into North Carolina National Bank, Char-
lotte, North Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition existing between 
North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, and State Bank & 
Trust Company, Greenville, and potential for increased com-
petition between them is somewhat limited due to numerous 
banking offices now located in Greenville and Pitt County. 
Consummation of the merger would increase slightly the 
concentration of banking resources in the State in a few 
large banks. The overall competitive effect would be 
slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
acquisition of assets and assumption of liability to pay deposits made 
in The Dime Savings Society of Marietta, Marietta, Ohio, by The First 
Bank of Marietta, Marietta, Ohio, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion 
reading as follows: 
The proposed acquisition of The Dime Savings Society 
of Marietta by The First Bank of Marietta would eliminate 
existing competition between them for real estate and 
consumer loans and time and savings deposits. However, in 
view of the relatively small size of the institution being 
acquired and the number of alternatives remaining, the 
overall effect on competition is viewed as slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
consolidation of The Columbia National Bank of Kansas City, Kansas City, 

i960 
6/16/69 
-6-
Missouri, and Union National Bank in Kansas City, also of Kansas City, 
Missouri, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed consolidation of The 
Columbia National Bank of Kansas City and Union National 
Bank in Kansas City would eliminate the existing and 
increasing competition between them. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposed con-
solidation would be adverse. 
Application of Mid America Bancorporation (Items 4-6). 
Issuance of an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on 
May 26, 1969, of the application of Mid America Bancorporation, Inc., 
St. Paul, Minnesota, to become a bank holding company through acqui-
sition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Valley National 
Bank of Eagan Township, St. Paul, Minnesota, was authorized.-^ Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 4 and 5, respectively. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 6. 
Piedmont Trust Bank (Item No. 7). For reasons discussed in a 
memorandum from the Legal Division dated June 11, 1969, the Board 
denied a request from Piedmont Trust Bank, Martinsville, Virginia, for 
confidential treatment of loan transactions between the bank and certain 
of its directors and their affiliated corporations, which transactions 
were required to be disclosed in the registration statement filed by 
the bank pursuant to Regulation F, Securities of Member State Banks. 
1/ Applicant already owned 92 per cent of the voting shares of 
Highland Park State Bank, St. Paul, Minnesota. 

A copy of the letter sent to the bank as a result of this action is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
6/16/69 
For immediate release. 
June 17, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
adopted regulations governing the advertising of interest paid on 
deposits in member banks of the Federal Reserve System. The action, 
which will become effective August 1, amends Federal Reserve Regulation Q, 
"Payment of Interest on Deposits," and implements the authority granted 
to the Board by Congress in the Act of September 21, 1968 (P.L. 90-505). 
Similar regulations are being issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation and by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board with respect to 
institutions under their jurisdictions. 
The regulation sets out rules governing bank advertising of 
interest rates and yields on deposits. It was first issued for comment 
by the Board on March 28, 1969. The new rules supersede advertising 
guidelines set forth in a 1966 statement of policy. Under the regula-
tion, any State member bank or national bank that advertises a percentage 
yield on deposits based on one year is required to include an equally 
prominent statement of the simple interest rate, together with a refer-
ence to the method of compounding. Advertising of percentage yields 
based on periods in excess of one year, which would have been permissible 
in certain circumstances under the regulation as published for comment, 
is prohibited by the regulation as adopted, in the interests of greater 
clarity. 
A copy of the new regulations is attached. 

Item No. 2 
6/16/69 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217--PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Advertising of Interest on Deposits 
1. Effective August 1, 1969, Part 217 (Regulation Q) is 
amended in the following respects: 
a. The heading of the Part is amended to read as follows: 
PART 217--INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
b. The last two sentences of § 217.6 are revoked and the 
remainder of that section redesignated as § 217.7. 
c. The heading of section 217.3 and subsections (a) and 
(e) 
thereof are amended to read as follows: 
5 217.3 Interest on time and savings deposits. 
(a) Maximum rate. Except as provided in this section, no 
member bank shall, directly or indirectly, by any device whatsoever, 
Pay interest on any time or savings deposit at a rate in excess of such 
applicable maximum rate as the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System shall prescribe from time to time in § 217.7. In ascertaining 
the rate of interest paid, the effects of compounding of interest may 
be disregarded. 
"k iSr 

-2-
(e) Technical grnee pcriods in cocsputinp; interest on certain 
tine deposits. Where a time deposit matures in 30 days, 90 days, 180 days, 
360 days, or even multiples of these periods, or where a time deposit 
matures in one month, three months, six months, twelve months, or even 
multiples of these periods, member banks may pay interest for such 
periods at one twelfth of the maximum rate, one quarter of the maximum 
rate, one half of the maximum rate, or at the maximum rate, or even 
i 
multiples thereof, respectively. 
In the case of any other time deposit 
no member bank shall pay interest at the maximum rate based on more days 
than the number of days the funds are actually on deposit. 
d. In § 217.3(g) the reference to "§ 217.6" is amended to 
refer to "§ 217.7M. 
e. A new § 217.6 is added to read as follows: 
§ 217.6 Advertising of interest on deposits. 
Every advertisement, announcement, or solicitation relating 
to the interest paid on deposits in member banks shall be governed by 
the following rules: 
(a) Annual rate of simple interest. Interest rates shall be 
stated in terms of the annual rate of simple interest. In no case shall 
a rate be advertised that is in excess of the applicable maximum rate 
for the particular deposit. 

-2-
(b) Percentage yields based on one year. Where a percentage 
yield achieved by compounding interest during one year is advertised, 
the annual rate of simple interest shall be stated with equal prominence, 
together with a reference to the basis of compounding. No member bank 
8hall advertise a percentage yield based on the effect of grace periods 
permitted in § 217.3. 
(c) Percentage yields based on periods in excess of one year. 
No advertisement 3hall include any indication of a total percentage 
yield, compounded or simple, based on a period in excess of a year, or 
an average annual percentage yield achieved by compounding during a 
period in excess of a year. 
(d) Time or amount requirements. If an advertised rate is 
Payable only on deposits that meet time or amount requirements, such 
requirements shall be clearly and conspicuously stated. Where the time 
requirement for an advertised rate is in excess of a year, the required 
number of years for the rate to apply shall be stated with equal promi-
nence, together with an indication of any lower rate or rates that will 
apply if the deposit is withdrawn at an earlier maturity. 
M 
Profit. The term "profit" shall not be used in referring 
to interest paid on deposits. 
(f) Accuracy of Advertising. No member bank shall make any 
advertisement, announcement, or solicitation relating to the interest 
paid on deposits that is inaccurate or misleading or that misrepresents 
its deposit contracts. 

ism 
-2-
(g) Solicitation of deposits for banks. Any person or 
organization that solicits deposits for a member bank shall be bound 
js Cj? ••) i r i: n ? r.c? • d r . 
by the rules contained in this section with respect to any advertisement, 
' t 
announcement, or solicitation relating to such deposits. No such 
person or organization shall advertise a percentage yield on any deposit 
it", solicits for a member bank that is not authorized to be paid and 
advertised by such bank. 
f. Sections 217.104 and 217.145 are revoked. 
2a. The amendments implement the authority granted to the 
Board by Congress in the Act of September 21, 1968 (P.L. 90-505). Sim-
ilar rules are being adopted by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board with respect to institutions 
under their jurisdictions. 
b. Under the amendments, a State member or national bank is 
prohibited from advertising an average annual percentage yield on 
deposits. This rule, which differs frcm a rule proposed in the FEDERAL 
REGISTER of April 5, 1969 (34 F.R. 6200), was adopted by the Board after 
consideration of all relevant material relating to the proposed rule, 
including communications received from interested persons. 
c. The amendments are expressly applicable to persons or 
organizations who solicit deposits for member banks in their adver-
tisements relating to such deposits. The effect of this is to prevent 
brokers from advertising percentage yields on deposits solicited for 

lSt>7 
-2-
• member bank3 that are in excess of yields member banks themselves are 
permitted to advertise. 
• / 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i) and 371b.) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 16th day of June, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrcc r.a«., 
Assistant Secretary, 
i ' V 
' " " 
>M: 
' 
' iv : 
ct • 
' 
. 
G . o >..t >.*' • » '• , '' • • • ' : ..• ' • 
• 
. 
^ 
. : 
.: 
1 • • 
' 
' • ' 

I9ti8 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
6/16/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 18, 1969. 
Security Pacific National Bank, 
561 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California. 90054 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission for Security Pacific National Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in London, England, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and 
of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before July 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby shall be 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in location 
of the branch in London. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limita-
tions on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not subject to the reserve require-
ments of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions is to 
allow foreign branches of U.S. banks to compete abroad with foreign 
banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and continues to be the 
policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by U.S. 
residents at foreign branches of U.S. banks unless such deposits have 
been placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose in connection with 
foreign or international transactions outside the United States. Accord-
ingly, the Board1s approval of this application is given with the 

i s g s 
Security Pacific National Bank 
-2 
understanding that the branch is to be operated for the purpose of de-
veloping new international business, and not as a means of shifting 
deposits to such branches from offices in the United States or for 
obtaining deposits that would otherwise be placed in the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
payments, the above consent is given with the further understanding that 
in the conduct of the branch's operations, maximum reliance will be 
placed on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it 
is understood that any investment required will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
bank and Security First International Corporation, and that due consider-
ation is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1970 
Item No. 2 
6/16/69 
J 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
t 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MID AMERICA BANCORPORATION, INC., 
St. Paul, Minnesota, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Valley National Bank of Eagan 
Township, St. Paul, Minnesota. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Mid America 
Bancorporation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota, for the Board's prior 
approval of action whereby Applicant, presently the owner of 92 per 
cent of the voting shares of Highland Park State Bank, St. Paul, 
Minnesota, would become a bank holding company through the acqui-
sition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Valley National 
Bank of Eagan Township, St. Paul, Minnesota, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice to the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the 

-2-
1S71 
application and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 23, 1969 (34 Federal Register 6810), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of the Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 16th day of June, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1 9 7 2 
Item No. 
2 
6/16/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MID AMERICA BANCORPORATION, INC., ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Mid America Bancorporation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
of action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Valley National Bank of 
Eagan Township, St. Paul, Minnesota ("Valley National Bank"). Appli-
cant presently owns 92 per cent of the voting shares of Highland Park 
State Bank, St. Paul, Minnesota ("Highland Park Bank"). The two banks 
named are sometimes hereafter referred to as the "Banks". 
Valley National Bank ($8.7 million deposits)," the proposed 
subsidiary, and Highland Park Bank ($13.8 million deposits), Applicant's 
present subsidiary, are located in different counties in the Minneapolis 
St. Paul Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area. The laws of Minnesota 
prohibit branch banking, and each of the Banks has only one office. 
^^mm^mmfmmmmmm^^^m ... 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1968, unless otherwise noted. 

1973 
-2-
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
application was given to and views and recommendation requested of 
the Comptroller of the Currency. The Comptroller recommended approval 
of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Upon consummation 
of the proposed transaction, Applicant would control .3 per cent of 
total deposits held by all banks in Minnesota. Applicant would be the 
smallest bank holding company and the seventeenth in size of the banking 

-2-
organizations in the State. The Banks together hold .5 per cent of 
the total deposits held by the 113 banks in the Minneapolia-St. Paul 
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area. Consummation of the transaction 
would thus result in very slight increases in the degree of concentration 
presently existing in the relevant areas. 
The service areas of the Banks, whose offices are eight miles 
apart, do not overlap, but are contiguous. However, a natural geographic 
barrier between their service areas is formed by the Mississippi and 
Minnesota Rivers. Each Bank derives less than 1 per cent of its total 
loans and deposits from the service area of the other. Highland Park 
Bank ranks third in size of the five banks competing in its service 
area; Valley National Bank is larger than each of the other two banks 
competing in its area. 
The managements of the Banks interlock to some extent. This 
fact, together with the existence of the aforementioned geographic 
barrier, the very low level of loans and deposits originated by each in 
the other's service area, and the State's prohibition on branch banking, 
make remote a potential for significant future competition between the 
Banks that could be precluded by consummation of the proposal. 
On the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation 
the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, nor be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any relevant area. Further, there appears 

19 
-4-
to be no reasonable probability that consummation of the proposal 
would substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
or operate in restraint of trade. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant has but six months operating history, having acquired the 
Highland Park Bank in January of this year. Accordingly, any judgment 
with respect to its prospective financial and managerial resources 
and its future prospects must be made in relation to the condition 
of Applicant's present and proposed subsidiary Banks. Except as 
noted below, the financial and managerial resources of the Banks are 
generally satisfactory. The record reflects that Applicant has a 
high debt position, principally incurred in acquiring Highland Park 
Bank and that the capital position of the Banks could be improved. 
Applicant has filed a Registration Statement with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission for the sale of 150,000 shares of its stock 
at $10 per share and has stated that the proceeds of this sale will 
be used to retire the debt incurred by it in acquiring Highland Park. 
Applicant has also stated its intent to augment the capital of both 
Banks. On this basis, the financial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant and the Banks are considered satisfactory. Management 
of Applicant, drawn principally from executive management of the 
Banks, and that of the Banks, is experienced and capable. The Board 
concludes that the banking factors with respect to Applicant and the 
Banks are consistent with approval of the application. 

1<?76 
-5-
Convenience and needs of the communities involved„ -
Applicant concedes that consummation of its proposal will not result 
in any increase in banking services now provided the areas involved. 
However, Applicant asserts that resulting efficiencies in the Banks' 
operations will ultimately inure to the public benefit. These con-
siderations, while offering no affirmative weight toward approval of 
the application, are consistent therewith. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
June 16, 1969. 

1377 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No, 
6/16/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 16, 1969. 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Mid America Bancorporation, Inc., 
3900 Sibley Memorial Highway, 
Saint Paul, Minnesota. 
55111 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of Mid America Bancorporation, Inc. for 
permission to become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Valley National Bank 
of Eagan Township, St. Paul, Minnesota. 
Enclosed is the Board's Order, together with the accompa-
nying Statement and the press release on this action. 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the action herein approved is to 
be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be given 
in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
The Board's approval was given with the understanding that 
the debt incurred in acquiring the shares of Highland Park State Bank 
will be retired from the proceeds of the proposed sale of 150,000 
shares of your stock. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures 

B O A R D • F G D V E R N • R 5 
Item No. 2 
6/16/69 
or T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
AooREns nrriciAL camirsnnNucKi'c 
T D 
T H E 
G U A R D 
June 16, 1969. 
CERTIFIED MAIL 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Mr. Irving M. Groves, 
Executive Vice President, 
Piedmont Trust Bank, 
Martinsville, Virginia. 
24112 
Dear Mr. Groves: 
Reference is made to your letter of May 9, 1969, requesting 
confidential treatment of loan transactions between the bank and cer-
tain of its directors and their affiliated corporations, which trans-
actions are required to be disclosed in the registration statement 
(Form F-l) filed by the bank pursuant to Federal Reserve Regulation F, 
"Securities of Member State Banks". 
The provisions of Item 12 of Form F-l requiring disclosure 
of material transactions between the bank and its directors, other 
"insiders", and their "associates" (as defined by section 206.2(d) of 
the regulation) are based on the belief that these are matters as to 
which the investing public ought reasonably to be informed. As you 
may be aware, the Board has published an interpretation which exempts 
loans to a particular director and his interests from the disclosure 
requirements, if they do not amount, in the aggregate, to more than 
10 per cent of the bank's equity capital accounts. 
1965 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin, page 1707. 
The bank has presented no special circumstances that would 
justify exempting it from a requirement that is applicable to, and has 
been complied with by, many other banks similarly situated. 
If the 
Board were to grant the bank's request for the reasons submitted, it 
could hardly deny similar requests from many other banks subject to 
Regulation F; such action would diminish the effectiveness of regula-
tory provisions that the Board believes are in the public interest. 

Mr. Irving M. Groves 
-2-
In view of the above, the Board has denied your request for 
confidential treatment. 
In accordance with section 206.3(c)(6) of 
Regulatio n F, the portion of the registration statement marked 
"confidential" will be made available to the public 15 days after the 
date of this letter unless prior thereto the bank files with the Board, 
in good faith, a written statement that it intends to seek judicial 
review of the Board's determination. 
A staff memorandum commenting on other items of the registration 
statement is enclosed. No amendment to the registration statement is 
required, but consideration should be given to such comments in connection 
with the preparation of future reports. 
' X c ' i ' J • • V'".1 
v .< \ •. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 
