MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 5, 1969 

3654 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, December 5, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 2:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
V.lt? 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Also present were the following representatives of the Federal 
O 
(' 
N 
Reserve Bank of New York: 
Albert L. Nickerson, Chairman 
Maurice R. Forman, Class B director 
Alfred Hayes, President 
William F. Treiber, First Vice President 
Salary administration. The group representing the New York 
Reserve Bank presented reasons why in their opinion the Bank would be 
justified in granting salary increases of approximately 10 per cent 
to officers of the Bank effective January 1, 1970, in addition to 
m e
r i t increases on a selective basis. This would be the second phase 
o f
 a program instituted effective at the beginning of this year in the 
light of evidence that a substantial gap existed between the levels at 
which officers of the Bank were compensated and salary levels offered 
by 
organizations, including commercial banks, with which the Reserve 
Bank competed for personnel. 

3
6
5
5 
12/5/69 
-2-
In addition to the gap that assertedly continued to prevail 
salarywise, several other factors were cited as contributing to the 
Problem experienced by the Reserve Bank in recruiting and retaining, 
after a period of training, personnel of such caliber as to enable 
the Bank to discharge its responsibilities effectively. One of them 
was the attractiveness of features available through employment by 
Private organizations such as participation in profit-sharing and 
stock option plans. Another was the prospect, in such organizations, 
°f being able to move upward to positions carrying higher levels of 
compensation tha n available in senior Reserve Bank posts. 
Additionally, reference was made to the improved competitive 
Position of the Federal Government as the result of adjustments made 
in the salary levels applicable to such service, particularly at the 
u
pper end. 
With respect to another phase of the officer salary adminis-
tration problem, it was pointed out that adjustments made in the 
compensation of nonofficer employees of the Bank as the result of 
community wage surveys had produced a number of situations where 
salaries of officers were lower than those of some employees in 
departments over which the officers exercised supervision. 
Messrs. Nickerson and Forman emphasized in their remarks the 
unfortunate longer-range implications if the Reserve Bank should be 
unsuccessful in attracting and retaining a sufficient number of 

3
8
5
6 
12/5/69 
-3-
persons of the quality required in order to staff the Bank properly 
in the future. In their judgment the Bank was performing at a high 
level of efficiency, and it was their hope that a strong staff would 
continue to be available over the years ahead. 
Board members, in their comments, expressed recognition of 
the administrative problems confronting not only the New York Bank 
but Reserve Banks generally, as well as appreciation for the sincere 
interest taken by the directors. They brought out, at the same time, 
the special responsibilities placed upon the Federal Reserve by virtue 
of the System's strategic role in combatting inflationary pressures. 
For that reason it was considered extremely important, not only in 
respect to salary administration but in respect to building programs 
and other operations, that the System maintain a responsible public 
image. 
Board members referred during the discussion to a number of 
significant steps that had been initiated within the past few years 
in an effort to improve the attractiveness of service with the Federal 
Reserve, including the offering of certain fringe benefits not pre-
viously available. They also pointed out that it had to be expected 
that younger Reserve Bank officers, at some point in their careers, 
must make a determination as to whether there were rewards in service 
with a quasi-public institution sufficient to offset actual and poten-
tial benefits incident to a career in private enterprise or some other 
environment. 

3657 
12/5/69 
-4-
At a certain stage of the discussion Mr. Treiber left the 
room and the comments of the New York Bank representatives were then 
directed more specifically to the gap that existed between the compen-
sation paid to Mr. Treiber and the salary levels of persons holding 
positions of comparable stature in other organizations. 
It was their 
conviction that as a minimum Mr. Treiber*s salary should be advanced 
to the upper end of the salary range applicable to his position. 
President Hayes then withdrew from the room and Messrs. 
Nickerson and Forman presented information illustrative of the fact 
that the levels of compensation of the chief executive officers of 
selected private organizations headquartered in the New York area 
were substantially in excess of the salary range established for the 
top post at the New York Reserve Bank. 
.. 
-/ .^:; (,V• t ;>"
v
_ > 1 j 1 
The meeting concluded with a reaffirmation by Chairman Martin, 
on behalf of the Board, of appreciation for the concern shown by the 
directors of the Bank's welfare. As to the immediate problem on 
which this meeting had focused, he expressed the view that further 
study would lead to a mutually acceptable solution, taking into account 
the information and opinions that had been exchanged. He added that the 
Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans 
had been working diligently in an effort to assure that the officer 
salary requirements of the various Reserve Banks were reasonably 
satisfied and that the Board would give sympathetic consideration to 

3658 
12/5/69 
-5-
proposals submitted by the New York Bank in the light of today's 
consultation. 
Messrs. Nickerson and Forman then withdrew from the room. 
Officers at Boston. The Board approved unanimously the appoint-
ment of D. Harry Angney and Daniel Acquilino as Senior Vice Presidents 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, effective January 1, 1970, and 
the payment of salaries to Messrs. Angney and Acquilino and 12 other 
officers of the Bank, effective January 1, 1970, at the annual rates 
indicated in the letter to the Bank of which a copy is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3655) 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R ' S 
• 
f 
t
h
e 
1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
U / 5 / 
^ ( f e ^ f ^ i ^ - ) 
£ * 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 S 5 1 
S
i
p 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E 5 P Q N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 5, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (PR) 
. Frank E. Morris, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear M r . Morris: 
The Board of Governors has approved the appointment of 
Messrs. Angney and Aquilino as Senior Vice Presidents and. the pay-
ment . of salaries t:o officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
listed below for the period January 1 through December 31, 1970: 
Annual 
Name 
Title 
Salary 
D. Harry Angney 
Sr. Vice Pres. 
$33,000 
Daniel Aquilino 
Sr. Vice Pres. 
27,500 
Donald A . Pelletier 
Vice President 
21,500 
Maurice P. Shea, III 
Vice President 
20,500 
J ames T. Timher1ake 
Vice President 
22,500 
Richard A . Walker 
Vice President 
25,500 
Bruce L . Craig 
A s s t . Vice Pres. 
17,500 
Foster K, Curimings 
Asst . Vice Pres. 
19,000 
Thomas F . Duj-;gan, Jr. 
Asst . Vice Pres. 
20,000 
N o rman S. F i <: 1eke 
Asst . Vice Pres. 
24 ,000 
and Economist 
Thomas F . Hunt, Jr. 
Asst . Vice Pres. 
19,000 
Kenneth H . Kulesza 
Asst . Vice Pres. 
14,000 
Alford S. Peckham 
Asst . Vice Pres. 
17,500 
Walter T. Sullivan 
Asst . Vice Pres. 
20,000 
These salaries are at the rates fixed by your Board of 
Dire ctors as reported in your letter of November 13, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
