MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 28, 1972 

33 98 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, November 28, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 

3399 
11/28/72 
-2-
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr, Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morris, President, Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
Chicago, and St. Louis on November 22 and by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Dallas on November 24, 1972, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
As recommended in a memorandum from Governor Daane dated 
November 20, 1972, the Board unanimously approved the assignment of 
Stephen Taylor of the Board's staff to serve as flow of funds adviser 
to the Puerto Rico Planning Board. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mercantile 
Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to acquire shares of 
Westminster Trust Company, Westminster, Maryland, and authorized the 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the application 
of First Tennessee National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, to acquire 

3490 
U/28/72 
-3-
shares of the successor by merger to The First National Bank of 
Cookevi1le, Cookeville, Tennessee, and authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached under 
No- 2, along with the dissenting statement of Governor Brimmer. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Ribanco, Inc., 
Lincoln, Nebraska, to become a bank holding company through acquisition 
of shares of Farmers State Bank, Rising City, Nebraska, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
aPprova1 on November 14, 1972, of the applications of Texas Commerce 
Hancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of American Bank 
Commerce, Odessa, Texas, and Permian Bank & Trust, also of Odessa. 
A 
C0Py of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved a telegram to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis authorizing the sale of the old Memphis Branch building. 
A copy of the telegram is attached as Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
NOW accounts. Following a ruling by the Supreme Judicial Court 
of Massachusetts in May 1972, mutual savings banks in that State had 
begun to permit the use of negotiable orders of withdrawal (NOW's)--
the equivalent of checks—from interest-bearing savings accounts. The 
s 
sachusetts and New Hampshire Bankers Associationssubsequently had 

3401 
11/28/72 
-4-
petitioned Federal and State authorities for relief from the competitive 
impact of this development, since Federal law prohibits Federally insured 
banks from paying interest on demand deposits. 
In a memorandum dated November 16, 1972, Mr. Holland presented 
a staff analysis that had been prepared as background for discussion 
of the implications surrounding the foregoing events. The paper outlined 
the available facts and presented the specific points underlying the 
regulatory conflict between the Federal and State authorities; discussed 
the economic implications of the existing situation; indicated the 
possible options available to the authorities, particularly the Board; 
and discussed the economic and legal implications of each of the options. 
The paper also summarized the action recommended by concerned parties, 
including proposals of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. No staff 
recommendations, however, were made in the paper. 
In a memorandum dated November 27, 1972, the Office of the 
Executive Director outlined the following options that it believed 
wight meet both the short- and the long-range objectives of the Board 
in dealing with this matter: 
1. Draft instructions to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston that henceforth NOW's would be 
processed as non-cash items. 
2. Negotiate with Massachusetts authorities, in 
coordination with the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, to inhibit the use of NOW's by 
reducing the rate of interest on such accounts 
to zero, if possible. 

3402 
11/28/72 
-5-
3. If Step 2 above was successful, announce that 
the Board would hold public oral presentations 
on all relevant aspects of the NOW accounts, 
as a prelude to possible Board recommendations 
for Federal legislative changes. 
4. If Step 2 was unsuccessful, issue the instructions 
described in Step 1 for comment, as an interim 
measure, and announce that public oral presentations 
would be held on the action proposed and also on 
other related matters. Such hearings would need to 
be brief, with a view toward making recommendations 
for required legislation on an urgent basis. 
Staff further recommended that announcement of any of the 
foregoing actions should be coordinated with the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board. 
During the discussion President Morris of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston presented his views and recommendations. President Morris 
expressed a preference for maintaining the NOW accounts at the savings 
banks and either (1) increasing the ceiling rate on passbook accounts 
at commercial banks in Massachusetts to the same level as that paid 
by savings banks in the State and authorizing the use of teller phone 
services for commercial banks; or (2) increasing the ceiling rate on 
Passbook accounts at Massachusetts commercial banks to 5 per cent and 
Permitting commercial banks to offer checking accounts with automatic 
overdrafts from savings accounts held by the same individual. 
Discussion then focused on the proposals presented by the 
Board's staff and by the Boston Reserve Bank. 

3103 
11/28/72 
-6-
The view was expressed that legislative recommendations with 
respect to this situation would probably be required. However, there 
was concern that the Board should take more immediate steps to deal with 
the matter. 
Sentiment was expressed in favor of actions that could be taken 
to assist commercial banks by amending certain sections of Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits. Views were also expressed, however, in support 
of delaying any action in this regard, at least until negotiations with 
Massachusetts banking authorities had been concluded. 
Ensuing discussion developed a consensus that the Board should, 
as a long-range objective, seek competitive equality among financial 
institutions through legislation. However, in view of the relative 
urgency of the situation in Massachusetts, it was believed that the 
Board should consider, in conjunction with other courses of action, 
holding a public hearing as soon as practicable. The hearing would be 
held in Washington and would concentrate primarily on the situation in 
Massachusetts. 
While there was general support for the proposal that a public 
hearing be held, it was also believed that prior to arriving at a final 
decision, the possibility of a hearing should be discussed with the 
Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
It was therefore understood that the Boston Reserve Bank and 
the Board's staff would continue to devote attention to the situation in 

11/28/72 
-7-
Massachusetts, that the possibility of a public hearing would be 
discussed with the Coordinating Committee, and that the Board would 
consider the situation further following the meeting of the Coordinating 
Committee. 
Community Bank of Huntington Park. With the understanding that 
Certain changes would be made in a draft that had been distributed, the 
Board unanimously approved a telegram to all Federal Reserve Banks 
informing them that the Board would comply with the request of Community 
Bank of Huntington Park, California, that checks drawn on that bank not 
be processed for collection by any Federal Reserve Bank. A copy of 
the telegram sent to the Reserve Banks is attached as Item No * 6. 
First Florida Bancorporation. On October 31, 1972, the Board 
unanimously denied the application of First Florida Bancorporation, 
rampa, Florida, to merge with United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Miami 
Beach, Florida. Subsequent to that action, additional data had been 
submitted by the applicant. 
In a memorandum dated November 24, 1972, Mr. O'Connell stated 
that staff had considered the additional data and adhered to their 
0riginal recommendation of denial. A proposed order denying the appli-
cation was attached. 
After discussion during which several members indicated that 
they desired to study the matter further, consideration of the proposed 
°rder was deferred. 

3405 
11/28/72 
-8-
Ellis Banking Corporation. In a memorandum dated November 24, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial, 
while the Banking Markets Section recommended approval, of the application 
of Ellis Banking Corporation, Bradenton, Florida, to acquire shares of 
First National Bank of Hudson, Hudson, Florida, a proposed new bank. In 
a memorandum dated November 22, 1972, the Legal Division stated that 
although it believed that either approval or denial was legally supportable, 
it believed that the application should be denied. The Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta also recommended denial. 
After discussion the Board approved the application, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. It was understood that an order 
reflecting that decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, 
and that a dissenting statement would also be prepared. 
Review of grandfathered activities. In a memorandum dated 
October 19, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the 
Banking Markets Section recommended continuation of the indefinitely 
grandfathered activities of the following bank holding companies: 
(1) The Western and Southern Life Insurance Company, 
Cincinnati, Ohio. 
(2) Estate of James Millikin, Deceased, Decatur, 
Illinois, a charitable trust. 
(3) The Zachary Taylor Life Insurance Company, 
Shreveport, Louisiana. 
(4) The Sealy & Smith Foundation for the John 
Sealy Hospital, Galveston, Texas, a charitable 
organization. 

3406 
11/28/72 
-9-
(5) Delta Loan and Finance Company, St. Louis, 
Missouri. 
The Board unanimously approved the grandfathered activities of 
numbers (2), (4), and (5) above, with the understanding that determinations 
reflecting these decisions would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Numbers (1) and (3) above were deferred for further consideration. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Officers' salaries. With the understanding that certain changes 
would be made in a draft that had been distributed, the Board unanimously 
approved a letter to the Chairmen of all Federal Reserve Banks regarding 
salary adjustment guidelines for the Presidents and First Vice Presidents 
of the Federal Reserve Banks. A copy of the letter subsequently sent 
to the Chairmen is attached as Item No. 7. (Note: A letter was not sent 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, since the Chairman of that Bank 
was advised by telephone of the contents of the letter.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3407 
Item No. 1 
11/28/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MERCANTILE BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mercantile Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPplied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)) to acquire not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares 
of Westminster Trust Company, Westminster, Maryland ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^ 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in Ught of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls six banks with aggregate deposits of approxi-
mately $323 million, and is the sixth largest banking organization in 
^yland, with 5.4 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the State. 
banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect bank holding 
CornPany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
°ctober 31, 1972.) Acquisition of Bank ($20.8 million in deposits) would 
Urease Applicant's share of Statewide deposits by only 0.4 per cent 
it-a 
Acs ranking in the State would remain unchanged. 
Bank is the second largest of eleven banking organizations com-
b i n g in Carroll County, with 12.1 per cent of countywide deposits. 
Ppl*cant's offices located closest to Bank are about 18 and 20 miles 

3408 
southeast of Westminster, in Cockeysville and Pikesville, respectively. It 
Spears that there is no significant existing competition between Bank and 
of Applicant's banking offices. Moreover, it appears unlikely that 
Such competition would develop in the future in the light of the facts of 
tecord, notably, the distances separating Bank from Applicant's present 
subsidiary banks, the number of banks located in the intervening area, 
and the projected moderate growth of Carroll County through 1980. On the 
basls of the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation of 
th® proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competition 
in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant 
its subsidiary banks, and Bank, are regarded as satisfactory and con-
sistent with approval of the application. It appears that the banking 
needs of the area are being met; however, customers of Bank should benefit 
fr°ni the higher-lending limits and additional services that Applicant will 
be able to provide. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
0f the community to be served lend slight weight toward approval of this 
aPPUcation. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is 
in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
^ o n s summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
bef°re the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 

- 3 
3409 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective November 28, 1972, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A, Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
„ chell, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Daane, 

3
«
0 
Item No. 2 
11/28/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST TENNESSEE NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Tennessee National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
!B42(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The First National Bank of 
cookevllle, Cookeville, Tennessee ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to 
b e merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition 
of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of 
8hares of the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed 
acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
0f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Tennessee, controls 
Slx banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $980.7 million, represent-
in8 10.8 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State, 
inking data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding company 
Urinations and acquisitions approved by the Board through October 31, 1972.) 
acquisition of Bank (deposits of $32.6 million) would increase Applicant's 
R e n t a g e share of deposits in the State by less than four-tenths of one 
Per cent and would not result in a significant increase in the concentration 
banking resources in Tennessee. 

" 3411 
- 2 -
Bank, located in Cookeville, Tennessee, is one of sixteen banks 
having offices in the Cookeville banking market. There is no existing 
competition between Bank and any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries. 
Applicant's nearest subsidiary banking office is located in a separate 
Market area approximately 85 miles from Cookeville. Due to the distances 
Evolved and restrictions placed on branching by Tennessee laws, there is 
Xlttle probability of substantial future competition developing between 
any o f these subsidiaries and Bank. 
Bank is the largest bank in the market area, holding 15.9 per cent 
of total market deposits. The second largest bank ($30.3 million deposits) 
c°ntrols 14.8 per cent; and the remaining fourteen banks range in size from 
$23-2 million to $2.8 million in deposits, and control 11.3 per cent to 
Per cent of the total market deposits. The population per banking 
°rSanization is significantly lower in the market area than the State average. 
Also> in the Board's judgment, size or location precludes all but the two 
lar8est banks in the Cookeville banking market from having comparable 
^ a c t i o n to Applicant as vehicles for entry into the market. Therefore, 
it: appears to the Board that the market served by Bank would not be 
Particularly attractive for de novo entry by Applicant or for its acquisition 
a foothold bank. 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
f°reclose significant potential competition, nor would it have any adversfi 
6ffect on competing banks since Bank is not dominant in the market. In • 
^ition, it appears to the Board that the proposed acquisition might 

3412 
-3-
re8ult in some increase in competition in the market by eliminating the 
interlocking ownership of Bank and of another small bank.~ 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactory. In view of 
applicant's commitment to improve the capital position of Bank by an 
Ejection of $500,000 of additional equity capital funds and its plans to 
Provide Bank with supervision and management expertise, Bank's prospects are 
^vorable and banking factors are consistent with approval. Considerations 
bating to the convenience and needs of the community to be served lend 
s°me support to approval, primarily because affiliation with Applicant will 
Permit Bank to improve its real estate lending capability. It is the Board's 
^gment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest and that the 
^Plication should be approved. 
Applicant controls two nonbanking subsidiaries, Norlen Life 
nsurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona, and Investors Mortgage Service, Inc., 
mPhiSj Tennessee, which were acquired on October 21, 1969, and on 
nUarV 17, 1969, respectively. Norlen Life Insurance Company reinsures 
liters of credit lif<=» insurance, and Investors Mortgage Service, Inc., 
is a mortgage broker which manages real estate for others and develops real 
T 
Investors Mortgage Service, Inc., owns two subsidiaries, Griffen 
^age Company, a mortgage broker acquired on December 4, 1969, and 
W E S T °rs Service, Inc., a real estate developer acquired on January 8, 1970. 
i / ^ r p -
0 ^ d T ° X i m a t e l y 2 7 p e r C e n t 
t h e v o t i R6 shares of Bank are presently 
t h e s a m e f a m i ly which owns 100 per cent of Bank of Monterey, 
tey» Tennessee. 

3413 
-A" 
In approving this application, the Board finds that the 
combination of an additional subsidiary bank with Applicant's existing 
n°nbanking subsidiaries is unlikely to have an adverse effect upon the public 
interest at the present time. However, Applicant's banking and nonbanking 
activities remain subject to Board review and the Board retains the authority 
to require Applicant to modify or terminate its nonbanking activities or 
hidings if the Board at any time determines that the combination of 
Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities is likely to have adverse 
effects on the public interest. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasona summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
SUch period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 1, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
g/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
and Bucher. Voting against this action: Governor Brimmer. Absent 
n°t voting: Governor Daane. 

3414 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
This application involves the proposed acquisition of an 
ad<Htional bank by a bank holding company having certain "grandfather" 
Prlvileges. Applicant is the largest banking organization in Tennessee. 
Prior to the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act which 
Ejected Applicant to regulation by the Board, Applicant acquired two 
n°nbanking businesses- in 1969—Norlen Life Insurance Company (which reinsures 
Merwriters of credit life insurance) and Investors Mortgage Service, 
Inc« (a mortgage broker which manages real estate for others and 
develops real estate). The latter owns two subsidiaries, Griffen 
Mortgage Company (a mortgage broker) and Investors Service, Inc. (a 
real estate developer)M 
In approving the application, a majority of the Board finds 
that :,the combination of an additional subsidiary bank with Applicant's 
listing nonbanking subsidiaries is unlikely to have an adverse effect 
Up°n the public interest at the present time." The majority fails to 
c°nsider whether the combination of Applicant's existing banking sub-
and such nonbanking subsidiaries is consistent with the 
PUrPoses of the Bank Holding Company Act. In my judgment, on each 
that a bank holding company having "grandfathered" activities 
°r interests applies for the Board's approval of a proposed acquisition, 
the Board should be following a policy of determining whether the 
jP ^be~~Board has recently determined that land development is not a 
jT^lssible activity for bank holding companies. (See 1972 Fed. Res. 
U e t i n 429.) 

- 2 -
c°ntinued combination of banking and nonbanking activities would 
an adverse effect on the public interest. If it so concludes, 
^e Board should make an appropriate order conditioning its approval 
of such application upon the modification or early termination of 
t^oae nonbanking activities involved in such a conclusion. Since, 
as the record reflects, this policy was not followed by the majority, 
1 dissent from the Board's action in this matter. 
Member 1, 1972 

3418 
Item No. 3 
11/28/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
RIBANCO, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Ribanco, Inc., Lincoln, Nebraska, has applied for the Board's 
approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through acquisition of 
100 per cent of the voting shares of Farmers State Bank, Rising City, 
^braska ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
t b e Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is a nonoperating company, with no existing subsidiaries, 
f°rmed for the purpose of acquiring Bank (deposits of $5.2 million), 
inking data are as of June 30, 1972). Bank was purchased by Applicant's 
°rBanizers in 1971 and the debt incurred in that transaction is to be 
assumed by Applicant as part of the present proposal. Acquisition of 
Bank by Applicant is essentially a change in the form of ownership from 
dividual 
to corporate ownership. The Board notes that several of 
applicant's officers and directors, individually or jointly, have 
Strolling interests in eight other Nebraska banks with aggregate deposits 
°f $30.3 million. 
As the closest of these banks to Bank is some 25 miles 
aWaV and is separated by the Platte River, there does not appear to be any 
leant competition between these banks and Bank. It appears that 

~2- 
3417 
consummation of the present proposal would not have any substantial effect 
°n competition in any relevant area. 
Although Applicant is a newly organized company without an 
derating record, its officers and directors have demonstrated their 
Management abilities in the operation of other banks in Nebraska. The 
^ture prospects of Applicant are dependent upon those of Bank. The 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of Bank appear 
satisfactory. Applicant has taken certain measures and submitted plans 
th*t indicate the Bank will generate sufficient income to retire the 
debt Applicant will assume as part of this proposal without placing an 
undue strain upon Bank's capital position. These considerations are consistent 
with approval of the application. Considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served are also consistent with approval 
of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
is in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of tills 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
Ut*less such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"^ effective November 28, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
|^Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
dimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to American Bank of 
Commerce, Odessa, Texas ("American Bank"). As an incident to acquisition 
of American Bank, Applicant necessarily would acquire and seeks approval 
for, acquisition of 24.9 per cent of the voting shares of Permian 
Bank & Trust, Odessa, Texas ("Permian Bank"), said shares are controlled 
1/ 
by American Bank under a trust relationship. 
The bank into which American Bank is to be merged has no 
significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the 
voting shares of American Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
°f the shares of the successor organization is treated herein as the 
Proposed acquisition of the shares of American Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
1/ The application filed by Applicant with respect to the acquisition 
American Bank states, "Applicant has no intention of acquiring any 
Interest in Permian Bank & Trust except as an incident to the acquisi-
tion of 100 per cent of the voting shares of [American Bank]." Appli-
cant proposes to divest all of its interest in Permian Bank within 
two years following acquisition and views the two year period as 
necessary in order to strengthen that bank's condition to permit 
°Peration as an independent competitor. 
Item No. 
11/28/73 

§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls six banks located in the Houston and Beaumont, 
•^Xas areas with aggregate deposits of $1.4 billion, representing 4.7 
2/ 
per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
Applicant, 
fourth largest banking organization in Texas, is the second largest 
^king organization in the Houston banking market with four subsidiary 
hanks controlling approximately 17.9 per cent of deposits of commercial 
hanks in that market. In addition, Applicant holds, through a subsidiary, 
between 20 and 24.9 per cent of each of three other banks located in the 
ti 
Uston area. These three banks hold aggregate deposits of $77.2 million, 
^Presenting 1.1 per cent of the total deposits of commercial banks in 
the Houston area. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and 
teflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved through 
ePtember 30, 1972.) Acquisition of American and Permian banks would con-
Stltute Applicant's initial entry into the Midland-Odessa banking market and 
not change Applicant's ranking among banking organizations in the State, 
^ °n August 31, 1972, the Board approved Applicant's application to 
<luire American national Bank of Beaumont, Beaumont, Texas. As a con-
tion to Board approval of that application, Applicant is required to 
t
 V e s t its interest in Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, Texas, within 
197 y e a r s o f i t s acquisition of American National Bank. On October 6, 
^ 2> the Board announced the approval of Applicant's application to 
tn^lre San Angelo National Bank of San Angelo, San Angelo, Texas ($70 
lion of deposits). On November 2, 1972, the Board anproved Applicant's 
Plication to acquire Bank Plaza del Oro, N.A., Houston, Texas, a pro-
n e w bank. Applicant has filed applications for approval to acquire 
£ 
°ther proposed new banks in the Houston area and Citizens National 
of Lubbock, Lubbock, Texas. 

3420 
-3-
American Bank ($43.5 million of deposits), the fourth largest 
eight banks in the Midland-Odessa banking market, controls 10 per cent 
deposits of commercial banks in the area. Permian Bank ($4.7 million 
of deposits), the smallest of the eight banks in the relevant market, 
1 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in this 
Market. The two largest banks in the Midland-Odessa irea (ore of which 
is affiliated with the third largest banking organization in the State) 
c°ntrol 43 and 19 per cent respectively of market deposits. American 
d Permian 
banks are located approximately 130 miles northwest of 
applicant's recently approved subsidiary in San Angelo, Texas, and 
^Proximately 500 miles from Applicant's subsidiary banks located in 
^°uston,Texas. It appears that no meaningful competition exists between 
any of Applicant's present or approved future subsidiary banks and 
^rican or Permian banks; and, on the facts of record, in particular 
distances involved and the Texas law prohibiting branch banking, 
Cotlsummation of the proposals herein is unlikely to foreclose significant 
potential competition between American and Permian banks and any of Appli-
Cant's subsidiary or satellite banks. Although located approximately 
tw° Wiles from each other in Odessa, no competition exists between American 
and Permian banks that would be eliminated by consummation of the pro-
v e d acquisitions. Permian Bank was organized in 1971 by individuals 
Associated with American Bank. In addition to the subject shares of Permian 
ank held by trustees for the benefit of shareholders of American Bank, 
si8nlficant amount of common shareholder ownership exists between these 
^atlks. A close working relationship has existed between these banks since 

3421 
Permian Bank began operations. Moreover, severance of control by American 
Bank over Permian Bank within two years from Applicant's acquisition of 
^ares of these banks may encourage the future development of Permian Bank 
as an additional competitor in the Midland-Odessa area. Applicant's 
entry mto this market through acquisition of American Bank should enable 
that bank to draw upon the substantial financial, technical, and manage-
ment resource strength of Applicant and thereby increase American Bank's 
ability to compete more effectively with the three larger banks in 
^at market. The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
transaction will not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant 
area and may, in fact, serve to stimulate competition among commercial banks 
in the Midland-Odessa banking market. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant 
and its subsidiary banks appear satisfactory and future prospects of 
all appear favorable. The financial condition, managerial resources and 
future prospects of American and Permian banks are consistent with 
approval. Applicant's entry into the Midland-Odessa area should signifi-
cantly broaden the availability of additional banking services to the 
residents of this area. Specifically, Applicant proposes to make avail-
able through American Bank additional specialized banking services such 
petroleum and petrochemical financing and international banking. It 
is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
°f American Bank is in the public interest and should be approved. 

3 4 2 2 
-5-
On the basis of the record, the application to acquire American 
Bank is approved for the reasons summarized above and on the condition 
that Applicant divest itself of its interest in Permian Bank within two 
years from the effective date of acquisiton of shares of American Bank, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board. The application 
to acquire shares of Permian Bank is approved only to the extent necessary 
and for the period granted to Applicant to effect the required divestiture 
°f its interest in Permian Bank. The acquisition of American Bank shall 
not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the 
effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant 
to the delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 28, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
TSEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
and Brimmer. 

3423 
Item No. 5 
T E L E G R A M 
11/28/72 
C E A S E D W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
November 30, 1972 
Leonard - St. Louis 
The St. Louis Reserve Bank is authorized to accept the 
high bid of $251,617 for the purchase of the old Memphis 
Branch building by Milton C. Picard as outlined in your 
letter of November 13, 1972, and supporting material. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Greenspan 

3434 
Item No, 6 
11/28/72 
T E L E G R A M 
F E D E R A L RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Y/ASHINGTON 
November 28, 1972 
Presidents, all Federal Reserve Eanks, and 
Vice Presidents in charge of all branches 
Community Bank of Huntington Park, California, has requested that 
checks drawn on it not be sent to any Federal Reserve Bank for 
collection. In compliance with that request any check drawn on 
the Community Bank which is sent for collection to the Los Angeles 
Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco will, except 
as noted below, be returned to the sending bank with the following 
dotation: "This item has not been presented by us to the pay.or 
httnk as that; bank has requested that any check drawn on it not be 
aont to any Federal Reserve Bank for collection." You may wish to 
advise direct sending banks and other institutions deemed appropriate 
within your district of the Community Bank's request and the San 
Francisco Reserve Bank's proposed action. The exception referred 
to above is for checks endorsed by or on behalf of the United 
States Government. These may continue to be cent to the Federal 
Reserve Bank at Los Angeles for collection. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

slvS-U^;-
^ i ' f j f f e 
•.'ML r^.-
CHAIRMAN O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON. D. C. 
20551 
. . 
3
4
2
5 
Item No. 7 
11/28/72 
December 1, 1972 
PERSONAL M P CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
James S. Duesenberry, Chairman 
federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 02106 
D^ar Jim: 
In keeping with the letter you received from the Secretary 
the Board dated October 19, 1972, the following information is 
forwarded for the guidance of your Board of Directors in developing 
salary adjustment proposals for the President and First Vice President 
°f your Bank. 
As you were informed, the Board of Governors has decided to 
Postpone the adjustment of the salary ranges until the results of a 
consultant's study are available and recommendations are developed by 
tae Chairmen's Conference Consulttee on Official Compensation and Per-
formance and the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation anc 
Building Plans. 
Accordingly, the Boards of Directors are requested to 
develop and present salary adjustment recommendations for their 
-residents and First Vice Presidents tor 1973 within the guidelines 
contained in the Board's letter to the Chairmen dated December 10, 
j-968, and based on the Directors' assessment of the individual offi-
cer's performance. In those instances where the current salaries of 
sotne. officers are equal or close to the maximum, of their respective 
ranges, the Boards of Directors may propose increases to levels reason-
ably in excess of those range maximums. 
In submitting your salary adjustment recommendations, the 
^°ard of Governors would find it very useful if your directors would 
delude a brief statement outlining their assessment of the perfor-
mance of your Presidents and First Vice Presidents over the past year. 
iIo*s specifically;, the Board would appreciate having your directors1 
e'v«iuation of (I) the quality and effectiveness of their management 
contribution; (2) their programs to identify and develop a management 

3426 
Mr. James S. Duesenberry 
-2-
cadre within the Bank; and (3) the effectiveness of their efforts in 
establishing and maintaining for the Bank a position of leadership in 
the financial community. Your comments on these and any other points 
you may wish to include will assist the Board of Governors in judging 
the overall effectiveness of the Federal Reserve System in implement-
ing its objectives. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Arthur Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
IDENTICAL 
LETTER SENT TO THE CHAIRMEN 
OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANKS 
EXCEPT NEW YORK 
