Minutes for 
August 30, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
in t • 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3 3 * ^ 0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 30, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Miss Eaton of the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Gramley, Williams, Eckert, Keir, Baker, 
Beck, Burns, Kelty, and Kichline of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Bradshaw, Gekker, Pizer, and 
Stem of the Division of International Finance 
Mr. Morris, President, Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston 
Money market review. Today's review included reports by Mr. 
Kelty on the Government securities market, by Mr. Beck on bank credit 
^velopments, and by Mr. Stem on the gold and foreign exchange markets. 
In addition, Mr. Keir presented an analysis of open market operations -
light of the lagged response of other Federal Reserve Banks to the 
°ne-quarter point reduction in the Minneapolis discount rate, with 

8/30/68 
-2-
particular reference to the amount of reserves actually supplied, 
beyond those that apparently would have had to be supplied if the 
other Banks had acted immediately, in order to keep market rates within 
the targets specified by the Open Market Committee. Copies of the docu-
mentation distributed for the purpose of today's review have been placed 
in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Mr. Brill then 
withdrew, as did President Morris and Miss Eaton, and the following 
entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Messrs. Plotkin and Lipkowitz of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Fisher, Lawrence, and Wiles of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sanford of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Richmond on August 29, 1968, of the rates on 
di scounts and advances in its existing schedule was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to that Bank. 

8/30/68 
-3-
Bank of Lansing (Item No. 1). In a memorandum of August 26, 
1968, the Division of Supervision and Regulation joined the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago in recommending denial of three branch appli-
cations that had been filed by Bank of Lansing, Lansing, Michigan, one 
of a chain of banks controlled by partnerships headed by Donald H. 
Parsons and associates, the largest bank in the chain being Bank of 
the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan. Denial was recommended primarily 
because Bank of Lansing's capital position was inadequate and of serious 
concern; the Reserve Bank was not confident that a satisfactory posi-
tion would be established within the next several years. In the cir-
cumstances, the Reserve Bank did not believe that expansion through 
branching would be in the public interest. If the applications were 
denied, legal action conceivably might be instituted by the applicant. 
Messrs. Solomon and O'Connell commented on the Parsons group 
banks generally and reviewed supervisory actions that were under con-
sideration on a joint basis. They noted that Governor Robertson had 
suggested that the letter to Bank of Lansing denying the branch appli-
cations make reference to the situation of Bank of the Commonwealth. 
However, Messrs. Leavitt and O'Connell urged against it, and President 
Scanlon of the Chicago Reserve Bank was reportedly of the same view. 
Governor Brimmer commented that, even disregarding the branch 
aPplications, Bank of Lansing's capital position seemed sufficiently 
serious to warrant a strong expression by the Board that the situation 

33!c3 
8/30/68 
-4-
should be improved. He suggested including a sentence to such effect 
in the letter to the bank. 
Governor Maisel inquired on what ground it was envisaged that 
the bank might bring suit if the applications were denied, and Mr. 
O'Connell stated that presumably suit would be brought on the ground 
that the action was arbitrary and capricious. 
Governor Mitchell then suggested certain changes in the letter 
to the bank to support the reasons for denial by reviewing the history 
of inadequacy of the bank's capital structure, the supervisory efforts 
that had been made to obtain improvementand the fact that the inade-
quate capital structure would be subject to additional undue burden if 
the establishment of the three branches in question were approved. 
There developed to be general agreement that a letter along 
such lines would be appropriate. Mr. O'Connell noted that the record 
would then show that the bank had been put on notice in the past as to 
the inadequacy of its capital, together with the fact that the bank had 
not responded and its capital position was still insufficient. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter to Bank 
of Lansing in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of First National City Bank, 
New York, New York, with The City Bank of New York, National Associa-
tion, New York, New York, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 

i 
8/30/68 
-5-
Consummation of the proposed merger of First National 
City Bank, New York, New York, and The City Bank of New 
York, National Association, New York, New York, would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Lehigh Valley Trust Company, Allentown, Pennsylvania, into 
Industrial Valley Bank and Trust Company, Jenkintown, Pennsylvania, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is no effective competition existing between 
Industrial Valley Bank and Trust Company, Jenkintown, and 
Lehigh Valley Trust Company, Allentown. However, there is 
potential for competition between the" two banks since each 
could be permitted to establish de novo branches in the 
head office county of the other as well as two other coun-
ties under Pennsylvania law. While the conversion of Allen-
town Bank's offices into branches of the larger Jenkintown 
Bank would enhance the competitive capabilities of these 
offices, there would be no change in concentration of 
banking resources in Allentown Bank's market area and the 
number of banking alternatives would remain the same. The 
overall effect of the proposed merger on competition would 
be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Albany Savings 
Bank, Albany, Georgia, by First State Bank and Trust Company, Albany, 
Georgia, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion reading as follows: 
Stockholders owning control of First State Bank and 
Trust Company, Albany, Georgia, organized in 1950 and since 
that time have owned control of Albany Savings Bank, Albany, 
Georgia. Consummation of this proposed transaction would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 

8/30/68 
-6-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Bank of La Jolla, San Diego, California, and Southern Cali-
fornia First National Bank, San Diego, California, was approved unani-
mously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclu-
sion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Bank of La Jolla, 
San Diego, and Southern California First National Bank, San 
Diego, would eliminate competition between them and further 
enhance Southern California First National Bank's position 
in the La Jolla area. The overall competitive effect of 
the merger would be adverse. 
Request of State bank supervisors. In a letter dated August 16, 
1968, Mr. Wille, Superintendent of Banks of New York, advised Chairman 
Martin of the names of six persons (all of whom had been present at the 
meeting of State supervisors and State bankers with the Board on 
August 13) who would be available to serve on a smaller joint group 
working toward specific improvements in Federal Reserve procedures in 
matters of bank regulation and specific items of Federal legislation 
on matters affecting State-chartered member banks that the Federal 
Reserve Board might sponsor or support. He stated that he was writing 
at the request of Mr. Hewes, President of the National Association of 
Supervisors of State Banks, and that they looked forward to the desig-
nation of a corresponding group from the Board of Governors and the 
various Federal Reserve staffs with the thought that the first joint 
meeting could take place in September, with subsequent meetings at 
intervals of five or six weeks. 

3326 
8/30/68 
-7-
With a memorandum of August 29 the Office of the Secretary 
submitted a draft of reply to Mr. Wille in which it would be suggested 
that Mr. Wille's group make a submission in writing, before any meet-
ings were held, that would focus on problems of bank supervision and 
regulation. 
After Governor Mitchell had suggested that the reply might be 
amended to suggest that the group meet with members of the Board's 
staff prior to any further meeting with members of the Board, Governor 
Brimmer referred to the unfortunate nature of comments that had appeared 
in the press following the August 13 meeting. He was also disturbed by 
the fact that the group named by Mr. Wille included only two State 
supervisors as compared with four State bankers and by the fact that 
the correspondence was from Mr. Wille rather than from President Hewes. 
Chairman Martin then suggested that in lieu of sending a reply 
in writing, he might contact Mr. Hewes and Mr. Wille by telephone, 
state in general terms that the Board would be glad to cooperate, and 
ask them to prepare a memorandum of their problems looking forward to 
having members of the Board's staff meet with their group at some later 
date. 
There was general agreement that it would be appropriate to 
handle the matter in the manner that the Chairman had suggested. 
Mortgage warehousing credit survey. In a memorandum dated 
August 29, 1968, the Division of Research and Statistics requested 

O o C w i 
8/30/68 
-8-
Board authorization for a regular semiannual survey of commercial bank 
credit extended to nonbank real estate mortgage lenders. The survey 
had been approved by the System Research Advisory Committee and the 
Committee on Research and Statistics of the Presidents' Conference 
following study based on a recommendation from an ad hoc interagency 
committee on mortgage credit statistics that a regular monthly survey 
of a sample of weekly reporting commercial banks be initiated. It was 
proposed that the survey procedures be reviewed before the end of 1969 
to determine whether any change in coverage or content would be appro-
priate and whether the significance of the survey results justified 
continuing the series. 
Questions were raised as to whether the survey should not be 
made more frequently than semiannually, and Mr. Brill explained that 
the semiannual series would serve principally as a benchmark, with the 
thought that if the results were not satisfactory the matter would be 
brought back to the Board for further consideration. 
The establishment of the series on an experimental basis was 
then authorized, and it was understood that the staff would seek clear-
ance from the Bureau of the Budget. 
(Note: Such clearance was subse-
quently obtained, and appropriate advice was sent to the Federal Reserve 
Banks.) 
Variable annuity insurance company (Items 2-5). A request had 
been received through the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston for a deter-
mination as to whether section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 prohibited 

u u ^ O 
8/30/68 
-9-
members of the Board of Managers of the Paul Revere Variable Annuity 
Contract Accumulation Fund (sponsored by the Paul Revere Variable 
Annuity Insurance Company, Worcester, Massachusetts) from serving as 
directors of member banks. Further correspondence had raised the addi-
tional question whether directors of the insurance company were subject 
to the same ban. 
The subject was explored in a memorandum from the Legal Division 
dated August 27, 1968, a copy of which has been placed in the Board's 
files. The Division concluded that the phrase "stocks, bonds, or other 
similar securities" in section 32 encompasses variable annuity inter-
ests, that the Accumulation Fund and its sponsor (the insurance company) 
were "primarily engaged" in the issue, public sale, or distribution of 
such securities, and that interlocking service between officers, direc-
tors, and employees of such organizations (including the Board of 
Managers of the Accumulation Fund) and member banks was prohibited by 
section 32, unless it should be exempted by regulation in the form of 
an amendment to Regulation R (Relationships with Dealers in Securities 
under Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933). The Division doubted the 
advisability of such an amendment unless persuasive arguments could be 
developed in its favor. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of interpretation recom-
mended by the Legal Division. Also attached were copies of an inter-
pretation by the Board in 1959 relating to variable annuities and of 

3329 
8/30/68 
-10-
two interpretations in 1963 concerning an insurance company that was 
engaged in the distribution of the shares of an affiliated mutual fund. 
The latter interpretations had not been published. If the Board now 
adopted an interpretation along the lines recommended by the Legal 
Division, it was proposed that the substance of the two unpublished 
interpretations be published for the information of the industry. 
After discussion of questions raised by members of the Board 
relating to functions performed by the parties in question and the 
logic according to which the Board had made interpretations in the 
past in somewhat similar situations, the recommendations of the Legal 
Division were approved unanimously. Attached as Item No. 2 is a copy 
of the 1 etter that was sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of the letter that was sent to the 
Federal Reserve Banks, and attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of the 
interpretation published in the Federal Register. In addition, the 
two 1963 interpretations were published in the form attached as Item 
No^j). 
In the Legal Division's memorandum it was noted incidentally 
that one director of the insurance company was an "honorary director" 
°f a member bank. Since the Board apparently had not previously con-
sidered whether an "honorary director" was subject to the provisions 
o f section 32, it was understood that the staff would make further 
inquiry with respect to this affiliation and present the question for 
c°nsideration at a later time. 

8/30/68 
-11-
Policy record entry. With a memorandum of August 27, 1968, Mr 
Broida submitted a draft of policy record entry covering the meeting 
of the Federal Open Market Committee held on June 18, 1968, as revised 
to take account of comments received from Committee members and staff 
following distribution of a preliminary draft. 
The entry was approved by the Board, subject to the understand 
ing that it would be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents for 
possible further comments and that it would be released to the press 
about September 16, 1968, after final review by the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 6 
is a copy of a press statement issued under 
date of August 30, 1968, pursuant to previ-
ous discussions by the Board, relating to 
the composition of the Advisory Committee 
on Truth in Lending. 
Governor Sherrill approved on behalf of 
the Board on August 29, 1968, the follow-
ing items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
August 28, 1968, recommending the reestablishment of an economist 
Position in the Banking Markets Section. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Transfer 
Gloria Jean Avery, from the position of Stenographer in the 
Division of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer 
in the Division of Supervision and Regulation, with no change in 
basic annual salary at the rate of $5,316, effective September 8, 
1968. 

3331 
8/30/68 
-12-
Acceptance of resignations 
Effective 
Name and title 
Division 
close of business 
Research and Statistics 
Janis Ann O'Neal, Statistical Clerk 
August 30, 1968 
Lydia M. Pitts, Summer Assistant 
August 30, 1968 
Buckner A. Wallingford, Summer Research 
August 30, 1968 
Assistant 
Administrative Services 
Robert Crawford, III, Summer Trainee 
August 30, 1968 
Michael W. Evans, Messenger 
September 3, 1968 
Vincent Price, Summer Trainee 
August 30, 1968 
Bernadette Smith, Summer Trainee 
August 30, 1968 
Sandra H. Walker, Summer Trainee 
August 28, 1968 
Anita Washington, Summer Trainee 
August 30, 1968 
Governor Sherrill today authorized on 
behalf of the Board foreign travel by 
Robert Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
and Director, Division of International 
Finance, to accompany Governor Robertson 
to the monthly meeting of the Bank for 
International Settlements to be held in 
Basle, Switzerland, on September 8, 1968, 
it being understood that reimbursement 
would be on an actual expense basis, 
including official entertainment. 
Governor Sherrill also approved today 
on behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Mary Ellen Byrn as Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $8,462, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increase 
Jacqueline Ann McDaniel, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, from $8,213 to $8,744 per annum, effective September 8, 1968. 

8/30/68 
-13-
Transfer 
Ralph W. Smith, Jr., Economist, Division of International Finance 
from the Asia, Africa, and Latin America Section to the Europe and 
British Commonwealth Section, with no change in basic annual salary 
at the rate of $12,243, effective September 22, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignations 
John McRae, Research Assistant, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, effective the close of business September 20, 1968. 
Rudolph Michaud, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business September 13, 1968. 
Robert M. Dunn, Jr., Economist, Division of International Finance 
effective the close of business September 13, 1968. 
Kenneth C. Lyles, Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, effective the close of business August 30, 1968. 
Barbara Fee McClelland, Composition Clerk, Division of Administra 
tive Services, effective the close of business September 6, 1968. 
Jo Ann L. Innocente, General Assistant, Division of Data Process-
ing, effective the close of business September 6, 1968. 
On August 29 and 30, 1968, actions were taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated authority as 
reflected in the following letters, copies of 
which are attached as indicated: 
On August 29, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Letter to Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
approving the establishment of branches in 
Newport Beach and in Corona del Mar, the latter 
to be closed simultaneously with the opening of 
the branch in Newport Beach. 
Item No. 
7 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Gardena. 
8 

8/30/68 
-14-
On August 29, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles 
California, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in Rolling 
Hills Estates. 
On August 30, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo 
ration regarding the application of Peoples 
State Bank of Colfax, Colfax, Illinois, for 
continuation of deposit insurance after with-
drawal from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Peninsula Bank and Trust Company, 
Williamsburg, Virginia, approving the estab-
lishment of an in-town branch. 

o o *> 1 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
8/30/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P 0 N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 4, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Lansing, 
Lansing, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
denied the applications of Bank of Lansing, Lansing, Michigan, for 
permission to establish branches (1) at 223-231 North Clippert 
Street, Lansing, Michigan; (2) in the vicinity of the intersection 
of Okemos Road and East Grand River Avenue, Meridian Township, 
Ingham County, Michigan; and (3) in the 5100 block of West Saginaw 
Str eet, Delta Township, Eaton County, Michigan. 
In acting upon the applications the Board has considered, 
among other factors, the capital position of Bank of Lansing. The 
matter of the Bank's capital deficiency has been the subject of 
several letters addressed to the Bank by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago commencing in 1966. Despite assurances given by the 
Bank as to a definite program for capital improvement, and notwith-
standing supervisory direction that immediate attention be given 
to such improvement, the most recent examination of your bank as 
of July 1, 1968, revealed that the bank's capital structure con-
tinues to be substantially inadequate. This structure would be 
subjected to additional undue burdens if approval were given for 
the establishment of the three branches in question. 

3335 
Board of Directors 
-2-
Accordingly, although it is understood that consideration 
continues to be given to a program of action that would improve the 
bank's capital structure, until capital is placed in a reasonable 
relationship to need, the Board has concluded that it would not be 
justified in approving any of the subject branch applications. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3336 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
8/30/68 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C IAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 3, 1968. 
Mr. Laurence H. Stone, Vice President 
and General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 
Dear Mr. Stone: 
There are enclosed herewith copies of an interpretation 
(S-2065) relating to interlocking service between member banks and 
variable annuity insurance companies. This interpretation was 
issued in response to the inquiry of Choate, Hall & Stewart, 
counsel to Paul Revere Variable Annuity Insurance Company, which 
you transmitted to the Board. It would be appreciated if you ad-
vise counsel of the Board's views as indicated in the enclosure and 
ascertain that the prohibited relationships are terminated within 
a reasonable time. 
In its letter of May 14, 1968, counsel indicated that 
Mr. Frank C. Harrington is an "honorary director" of the Worcester 
County National Bank. Since the Board has not previously con-
sidered whether such directors are subject to the provisions of 
section 32, it would be appreciated if you inquire as to the 
functions, responsibilities and authority of this office and the 
method of appointment thereto. Such information as you develop 
will be presented to the Board for its consideration relative to 
Mr. Harrington's eligibility to continue to serve the Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures 

of GOV^'• . 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
8/30/68 
S-2065 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P D N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B D A R D 
September 3, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has recently been asked to consider whether Section 
32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) and the Board's Regulation 
R, "Relationships with Dealers in Securities under Section 32 of t!*e 
Banking Act of 1933" (12 CFR 218), prohibit interlocking service between 
member banks and (1) the Board of Managers of an Accumulation Fund, 
registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80), 
that sells variable annuities and (2) the Board of Directors of the 
Insurance Company, of which the Accumulation Fund is a "separate account," 
but as to which the Insurance Company is the sponsor, investment advisor, 
underwriter, and distributor. Briefly, a variable annuity is one provid-
ing for annuity payment varying in accordance with the changing values 
of a portfolio of securities. 
Section 32 provides in relevant part that: 
"No officer, director, or employee of any corporation 
or unincorporated association, no partner or employee of 
any partnership, and no individual, primarily engaged in the 
issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution, 
at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, 
of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities, shall serve 
[at] the same time as an officer, director, or employee of 
any member bank. . ." 
For many years, the Board's position has been that an open-end 
investment company (or mutual fund) is "primarily engaged in the issue . . . 
public sale, or distribution, . . . of securities" since the issuance and 
sale of its stock is essential to the maintenance of the company's size 
and to the continuance of its operations without substantial contraction, 
and that Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 prohibits an officer, 
director, or employee of any such company from serving at the same time 
as an officer, director, or employee of any member bank. (1951 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 645; 12 CFR 21C.101.) 

3338 
-2- 
S-2065 
For reasons similar to those stated by the United States 
Supreme Court in Securities and Exchange Commission v. Variable 
Annuity Life Insurance Company of America, 359 U. S. 65 (1959), 
the Board concluded that there is no meaningful basis for distin-
guishing a variable annuity interest from a mutual fund share for 
Section 32 purposes and that, therefore, variable annuity interests 
should also be regarded as "other similar securities" within the 
prohibition of the statute and regulation. 
The Board concluded also that, since the Accumulation Fund, 
like a mutual fund, must continually issue and sell its investment 
units in order to avoid the inevitable contraction of its activities 
as it makes annuity payments or redeems variable annuity units, the 
Accumulation Fund is "primarily engaged" for Section 32 purposes. 
The Board further concluded that the Insurance Company was likewise 
"primarily engaged" for the purposes of the statute since it had no 
significant revenue producing operations other than as underwriter 
and distributor of the Accumulation Fund's units and investment 
advisor to the Fund. 
Although it was clear, therefore, that Section 32 prohibits 
any officers, directors, and employees of member banks from serving 
in any such capacity with the Insurance Company or Accumulation Fund, 
the Board also considered whether members of the Board of Managers 
of the Accumulation Fund are "officers, directors, or employees" 
within such prohibition. The functions of the Board of Managers, who 
are elected by the variable annuity contract owners, are, with the 
approval of the variable annuity contract owners, to select annually 
an independent public accountant, execute annually an agreement pro-
viding for investment advisory services, and recommend any changes in 
the fundamental investment policy of the Accumulation Fund. In 
addition, the Board of Managers has sole authority to execute an 
agreement providing for sales and administrative services and to 
authorize all investments of the assets of the Accumulation Fund in 
accordance with its fundamental investment policy. In the opinion of 
the Board of Governors, the Board of Managers of the Accumulation Fund 
performs functions essentially the same as those performed by classes 
of persons as to whom the prohibition of Section 32 was specifically 
directed and, accordingly, are within the prohibitions of the statute. 
This interpretation will be published in the Federal Register 
and Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3339 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 4 
8/30/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. R] 
PART 218 - RELATIONS WITH DEALERS IN SECURITIES 
UNDER SECTION 32, BANKING ACT OF 1933 
Variable Annuity Insurance Company 
§218.112 Interlocking relationships between member bank and 
variable annuity insurance company. 
(a) The Board has recently been asked to consider whether 
section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) and this part 
prohibit interlocking service between member banks and (1) the Board 
of Managers of an Accumulation Fund, registered under the Investment 
Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80), that sells variable annuities 
and (2) the Board of Directors of the Insurance Company, of which the 
Accumulation Fund is a "separate account," but as to which the In-
surance Company is the sponsor, investment advisor, underwriter, and 
distributor. Briefly, a variable annuity is one providing for an-
nuity payment varying in accordance with the changing values of a 
portfolio of securities. 
(b) Section 32 provides in relevant part that: "No officer, 
director, or employee of any corporation or unincorporated association, 
no partner or employee of any partnership, and no individual, primarily 
engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or dis-
tribution, at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, 
of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities, shall serve [at] the 
same time as an officer, director, or employee of any member bank. . ." 

33 1C 
- 2 -
(c) For many years, the Board's position has been that an 
open-end investment company (or mutual fund) is "primarily engaged 
in the issue . . . public sale, or distribution, . . . of securities" 
since the issuance and sale of its stock is essential to the main-
tenance of the company's size and to the continuance of its operations 
without substantial contraction, and that section 32 of the Banking 
Act of 1933 prohibits an officer, director, or employee of any such 
company from serving at the same time as an officer, director, or 
employee of any member bank. (1951 Federal Reserve Bulletin 645; 
12 CFR 218.101.) 
(d) For reasons similar to -those stated by the United States 
Supreme Court in Securities and Exchange Commission v. Variable Annuity 
Life Insurance Company of America, 359 U. S. 65 (1959), the Board con-
cluded that there is no meaningful basis for distinguishing a variable 
annuity interest from a mutual fund share for section 32 purposes and 
that, therefore, variable annuity interests should also be regarded as 
"other similar securities" within the prohibition of the statute and 
regulation. 
(e) The Board concluded also that, since the Accumulation 
Fund, like a mutual fund, must continually issue and sell its invest-
ment units in order to avoid the inevitable contraction of its ac-
tivities as it makes annuity payments or redeems variable annuity 
units, the Accumulation Fund is "primarily engaged" for section 32 
purposes. The Board further concluded that the Insurance Company was 

-3-
3341 
likewise "primarily engaged" for the purposes of the statute since 
it had no significant revenue producing operations other than as 
underwriter and distributor of the Accumulation Fund's units and 
investment advisor to the Fund. 
(f) Although it was clear, therefore, that section 32 
prohibits any officers, directors, and employees of member banks from 
serving in any such capacity with the Insurance Company or Accu-
mulation Fund, the Board also considered whether members of the Board 
of Managers of the Accumulation Fund are "officers, directors, or 
employees" within such prohibition. The functions of the Board of 
Managers, who are elected by the variable annuity contract owners, 
are, with the approval of the variable annuity contract owners, to 
select annually an independent public accountant, execute annually an 
agreement providing for investment advisory services, and recommend 
any changes in the fundamental investment policy of the Accumulation 
Fund. In addition, the Board of Managers has sole authority to exe-
cute an agreement providing for sales and administrative services and 
to authorize all investments of the assets of the Accumulation Fund 
in accordance with its fundamental investment policy. In the opinion 
of the Board of Governors, the Board of Managers of the Accumulation 
Fund performs functions essentially the same as those performed by 
classes of persons as to whom the prohibition of section 32 was spe-
cifically directed and, accordingly, are within the prohibitions of 
the statute. 

-4-
3342 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i). Interprets or applies 12 U.S.C. 78.) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 30th day of August, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 25 
8/30/68 
Applicability of Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 
to Interlocking Service between member banks and an 
insurance company-mutual fund complex. 
The Board has been asked whether section 32 of the Banking 
Act of 1933 and the Board's Regulation R prohibited interlocking 
service between member banks and (1) the advisory board of a newly 
organized open-end investment company (mutual fund), (2) the fund's 
incorporated investment manager-advisor, (3) the insurance company 
sponsoring and apparently controlling the fund. 
X Fund, Inc. ( Fund"), the mutual fund, was closely related 
to X Life Insurance Company ( Insurance Company"), as well as to the 
incorporated manager and investment advisor to Fund ("Advisors"), and 
the corporation serving as underwriter for Fund ("Underwriters' ). The 
same persons served as principal officers and directors of Insurance 
Company, Fund, Advisors, and Underwriters. In addition, several 
directors of member banks served as directors of Insurance Company 
and of Advisors and as members of the Advisory Board of Fund, and 
additional directors of member banks had been named only as members 
of the Advisory Board. All outstanding shares of Advisors and of 
Underwriters were apparently owned by Insurance Company. 
Section 32 provides in relevant part that: 
"No officer, director, or employee of any corporation 
. . . primarily engaged in the issue, flotation, 
underwriting, public sale, or distribution at whole-
sale or retail, or through syndicate participation, 

3344 
-2-
of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities, shall 
serve [at] the same time as an officer, director, or 
employee of any member bank . . . 
The Board of Governors reaffirmed its earlier position that an 
open-end investment company is "primarily engaged" in activities described 
in section 32 "even though the shares are sold to the public through 
independent organizations with the result that the investment company 
does not derive any direct profit from the sales." (1951 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 654, 12 CFR 218.101.) Accordingly, the Board concluded that 
Fund must be regarded as so engaged, even though its shares were under-
written and distributed by Underwriters. 
As directors of the member banks involved in the inquiry were 
not officers, directors, or employees of either Fund or Underwriters, 
the relevant questions were whether (1) Advisors, and (2) Insurance 
Company, should be regarded as being functionally and structurally so 
closely allied with Fund that they should be treated as one with it 
in determining the applicability of section 32. An additional question 
was whether members of the Advisory Board are "officers, directors, or 
employees" of Fund within the prohibition of the statute. 
Interlocking Service with Advisory Board 
The function of the Advisory Board was merely to make sugges-
tions and to counsel with Fund's Board of Directors in regard to 
investment policy. The Advisory Board had no authority to make 
binding recommendations in any area, and it did not serve in any sense 

3315 
-3-
as a check on the authority of the Board of Directors. Indeed, the 
Fund's by-laws provided that the Advisory Board "shall have no power 
or authority to make any contract or incur any liability whatever or to 
take any action binding upon the Corporation, the Officers, the Hoard 
of Directors or the Stockholders." Members of the Advisory Board were 
appointed by the Board of Directors of Fund, which could remove any 
member of the Advisory Board at any time. None of the principal officers 
of Fund or of Underwriters were members of the advisory Board; and 
the compensation of its members was expected to be nominal. 
The Board of Governors concluded that members of the Advisory 
Board need not be regarded as "officers, directors, or employees" of 
Fund or of Underwriters for purposes of section 32, and that the 
statute, therefore, did not prohibit officers, directors, or employees 
of member banks from serving as members of the Advisory Board. 
Interlocking Service with Advisors 
The principal officers and several of the directors of 
Advisors were identical with both those of Fund and of Underwriters. 
Entire management and investment responsibility for Fund had been 
placed, by contract, with Advisors, subject only to a review authority 
in the Board of Directors of Fund. Advisors also supplied office space 
for the conduct of Fund's affairs, and compensated members of the 
Advisory Board who are also officers or directors of Advisors. 

Moreover, it appeared that Advisors was created for the sole purpose of 
servicing Fund, and its activities were to be limited to that function. 
In the view of the Board of Governors, the structural and 
functional identity of Fund and Advisors was such that they were to be 
regarded as a single entity for purposes of section 32, and, accordingly, 
officers, directors, and employees of member banks were prohibited by 
section 32 from serving in any such capacity with such entity. 
Interlocking Service with Insurance Company 
It was clear that Insurance Company was not as yet "primarily 
engaged" in business of a kind described in section 32 with respect to 
the shares of the newly created Fund sponsored by Insurance Company, 
since the issue and sale of such shares had not yet commenced. Nor did 
it appear that Insurance Company would be so engaged in the preliminary 
stages of Fund's existence, when the disproportion between the insurance 
business of Insurance Company and the sale of Fund shares would be very 
great. However, it was also clear that if Fund was successfully launched, 
its activities would rather quickly reach a stage where a serious 
question would arise as to the applicability of the section 32 
prohibition. 
An estimate supplied to the Board indicated that 100,000 
shares of Fund might be sold annually to produce, based on then current 
values, annual gross sales receipts of over $1 million. Insurance 
Company's total gross income for its last fiscal year was almost $10 

J o 4 / 
-5-
million. On this basis, about one-tenth of the annual gross income of 
the Insurance Company-Fund complex (more than one-tenth, if income from 
investments of Insurance Company was eliminated) would be derived from 
sales of Fund shares. Although total sales of shares of Fund during 
the first year might not approximate expectations, it was assumed that 
if the estimate or projection was correct, the annual rate of sale 
might well rise to that level before the end of the first year of opera-
tion. 
It appeared that net income of Insurance Company from Fund's 
operations would be minimal fcr the foraeeable future. However, it was 
understood that Insurance Company's chief reason for launching Fund 
was to provide salesmen for Insurance Company (who were to be the only 
sellers of shares of Fund, and most of whom, Insurance Company hoped, 
would qualify to sell those shares), with a "package" of mutual fund 
shares and life insurance policies that would provide increase competi-
tive strength in a highly competitive field. 
The Board concluded that Insurance Company would be "primarily 
engaged" in issuing or distributing shares of Fund within the meaning 
of section 32 by not later than the time of realization of the afore-
mentioned estimated annual rate of sale, and possibly before. As 
indicated in Board of Governors v. Agnew, 329 U. S. 441 at 446, the 
prohibition of the statute applies if the section 32 business involved 
is a "substantial" activity of the company. 

This, the Board observed, was not to suggest that officers, 
directors, or employees of Insurance Company who are also directors of 
member banks would be likely, as individuals, to use their positions with 
the banks to further sales of Fund's shares. However, as the Supreme 
Court pointed out in the Agnew case, section 32 is a "preventive or 
prophylactic measure." The fact that the individuals involved "have 
been scrupulous in their relationships" to the banks in question "is 
immaterial." 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
For release in morning papers of 
Tuesday, September 3, 1968. 
Item No. 6 
8/30/68 
August 30, 1968. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today the appointment of two additional members, both women, to its 
Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending, raising the total number of 
Advisory Committee members to 20. 
The two new members who complete the makeup of the Committee 
are Professor Jean A. Crockett of the Department of Finance, University 
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, and Miss Barbara A. Zimmelman, of Houston, 
Texas, Executive Director of CIVIC HOUSTON, a non-profit organization 
formed to help revitalize downtown Houston. 
Names of the other 18 Advisory Committee members were announced 
by the Board on August 19. Dr. Richard H. Holton, Dean of the School of 
Business Administration at the University of California, Berkeley, is 
Advisory Committee Chairman. 
The Committee will advise and consult with the Board in the 
exercise of its functions under the new Truth in Lending law which goes 
into effect on July 1, 1969. Board Vice Chairman J. L. Robertson will 
temporarily head the Board's work in this field which includes the drafting 
of regulations to implement the new law. 
The Advisory Committee, which will hold its first scheduled 
meeting in Washington on September 12 and 13, is made up of 17 men and 3 
women representing all sections of the country. Some are active in the 
consumer credit field as retailers and lenders while others have had ex-
tensive experience working with consumer groups. 
-0-

/.QV 
^LRE^V' 
3350 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
8/30/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 4, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Union Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the establishment of a branch by Union Bank, 
Los Angeles, California, in the vicinity of the northeast corner 
of Santa Rosa Drive and Newport Center Drive, Newport Financial 
Plaza, Newport Beach, Orange County, California, provided the 
branch is established within two years from the date of this 
letter. The Acting Director has also approved the establishment 
of a branch at 2831 East Coast Highway, Corona del Mar, California, 
provided the branch is established within six months from the date 
of this letter and further provided that this branch is closed 
simultaneously with the opening of the branch in Newport Financial 
Plaza, Newport Beach, California. 
In considering these applications, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branches will serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
and that establishment of the branches will not tend to create 
an undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
8/30/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P Q N D E N C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 3, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the establishment of a branch by United 
California Bank, Los Angeles, California, in the vicinity of 
the intersection of Redondo Beach Boulevard and Budlong Avenue, 
Gardena, Los Angeles County, California, provided the branch is 
established within one year from the date of this letter. 
In approving this application, it has been determined 
that your management is adequate, that the proposed branch will 
serve the convenience and needs of the community, and that estab-
lishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

*jojtr«> 
O u O ^ 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S a n F h a n c i b o o , C a l i f o r n i a 
04120 
Item No. 9 
8/30/68 
August 29, 1968 
Mr. John W. Kenney, 
Executive Vice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California 90054. 
Dear Mr. Kenney: 
On behalf of the Boar 
Federal Reserve System, acting 
this Bank has approved an extens 
of the time within whicjh United 
establish a branch/^ffIctjHn the 
Road and Beechgate Drive, Rolling 
Angeles County,/California. 
Governor^ of the 
der delegated authority, 
' 19, 1969, 
. t f o p r t f a Bank may 
viWnity of Silver Spur 
Hills Estates, Los 
This Extension is granted in connection with 
the request contVined in 
y
o
u
y letter dated August 28, 
1968. 
Very truly yours, 
"(signed) Irwin L. 'Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

. • • of GOvV • • 
''•f^LRE^V 
M u O O 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 10 
8/30/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 3, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your latter of August 26, 1968 
concerning the application of Peoples State Bank of Colfax 
' 
Colfax, Illinois, for continuance of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation has stated, on behalf of 
the Board of Governors, that there have been no corrective pro-
grams urged upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been 
fully consummated, and there are no programs that the Acting 
Director would advise be incorporated as conditions of admitting 
the bank to membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assi stant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
OF 
R I C H M O N D 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
OF 
R I C H M O N D 
R I C H M O N D , 
V I R G I N I A 
2 3 2 1 3 
August 30, 1S6B. 
Item No. 11 
8/30/68 
Bear* of Directora, 
Fiala«nl« lank and Trust Coopany, 
Williamsburg, Virginia 23185. 
GentlemenI 
lbs Federal ftassrve Bank of Bichasad, on behalf of 
and under authority delegated by tha Board of Governora of 
the fodoral Beaerve Byatea, has approved ths application of 
Peninsula Bank and Trust Ceopany, Willisnsburg, Virginia, to 
satabllah a branch at tha eornar of Prince George and Borth 
Hanry Btrecte, Williamsburg, Virginia, providing tha branch 
la aatabllahad within six months frees tha data of thla lattar. 
In rcaching thla decision, conaldaratlon haa boon given to 
tha bank'a capitalisation and nansgemsnt, tha convcniance and 
needs of tha causalty, tha competitive altuatlon In tha area 
and tha future proapacta of tha branch. 
Fleece advlea ua when a definite date for opening 
haa been determined and tha exact title under which the branch 
will operate. 
Yeura vary truly. 
/S/ Aubrey N. Heflin 
Aubrey V* Baflln, 
Prealdant. 
