Minutes for 
January 11, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

56 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, January 11, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
viit„'f 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Morgan, Miss Ormsby, and Miss Ryon of the 
Office of the Secretary 
An economic review of the kind customarily offered in prepara-
I-fwCj.;, !.J fo>;v. >z • 
v i'-tu in ?:a<s> i^ronosw mi 
< . 
• Vo-wom' . mi.. 
tion for meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee was presented. 
Copies of the statistical charts and tables prepared for the purpose of 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
°f the individual briefings. 
At the conclusion of the economic review, staff members who had 
attended specifically for that purpose left the room. 
Other members of 
the staff, including Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board; Messrs. O'Connell, 
Sanders, and Noble, and Mrs. Heller of the Legal Division; Messrs. Leavitt, 
Egertson, and Lyon of the Division of Supervision and Regulation; and 
Norwood of the Division of International Finance entered. 
-1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1/11/71 
-2-
Pan American Bancshares. The Board authorized the issuance of 
an order reflecting the Board's approval on December 31, 1970, of the 
application of Pan American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire 
shares of First Bank of Plantation, Plantation, Florida. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 1. 
Society Corporation. The Board approved unanimously the 
application of Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire shares 
of The Second National Bank of Ravenna, Ravenna, Ohio, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
Report on competitive factors. 
Consideration was given to a 
report to be sent to the Comptroller of the Currency regarding the com-
petitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Pocono Bank, East 
Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania, and Northeastern Pennsylvania National Bank 
& Trust Company, Scranton, Pennsylvania. 
The Board approved the transmittal of a report reflecting the 
opinion of its staff that the competitive effects would be adverse, 
although Governor Mitchell was inclined to feel that the effects would 
be no more than slightly adverse. The conclusion of the report, as 
transmitted, read as follows: 
There is some competition existing between Pocono Bank, 
East Stroudsburg, and Northeastern Pennsylvania National 
Bank & Trust Company, Scranton, and there is potential for 
increased competition between them. Overall, the effect of 
the proposal on competition would be adverse. 

58 
1/11/71 
-9-
Inquiry was made whether the staff could provide an analysis of 
the indicated change in the attitude of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation toward the competitive factors involved in proposed mergers, 
as reflected in recent reports rendered by that agency, and it was 
understood that the staff would attempt to provide such an analysis. 
Mr. Spencer of the Office of the Secretary joined the meeting 
at this point. 
Meetings with State bankers. A memorandum from the Office of 
the Secretary dated December 31, 1970, proposed a schedule of meetings 
with State bankers associations and similar groups during 1971. 
Some misgivings were expressed with regard to the feasibility 
°f scheduling individual Board members well in advance to meet with 
Particular groups, and with regard to the feasibility of Board member 
representation at all dinners of the respective groups. After discus-
sion of these and related questions, it was agreed that a tentative 
schedule of representation at the meetings with the various groups, 
and at their dinners, would be worked out, subject to the understand-
ing that it must be recognized that all tentative commitments could 
not necessarily be kept. 
With this understanding, the plans for the series of meetings 
with the State bankers associations and other groups were approved. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 

5 
1/11/71 
-9-
Euro-dollars. 
It was agreed that the Board would meet again 
this afternoon to discuss a program of Federal Reserve matched sale-
purchase transactions with member banks involving U.S. Government 
securities held in the System Open Market Account, the purpose of 
which program would be to help moderate repayments of Euro-dollar 
liabilities by U.S. banks. 
It was hoped that by this afternoon word 
would be available from the Treasury on whether the Export-Import Bank 
was prepared to move forward with an issue of special securities that 
Would be sold to foreign branches of U.S. banks, and that the discussion 
this afternoon would result in a sufficient meeting of the minds so that 
a decision could be reached on what form of proposal could be described 
to the Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting tomorrow. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon then 
withdrew. 
Staff personnel matters. The Board approved unanimously the 
aPpointment of Harry J. Halley, now Assistant Controller, as Deputy 
Controller and Program Director for Management Systems, effective 
January 11, 1971, with annual salary at the rate of $31,200. 
The Board approved unanimously the promotion of James L. Pierce, 
n°w Assistant Adviser in the Division of Research and Statistics, to 
the position of Associate Adviser, effective January 11, 1971, with 
annual salary at the rate of $32,400. 

60 
1/11/71 
- 9 -
The Board approved unanimously the appointment of Edward C. 
Ettin, now Chief of the Capital Markets Section in the Division of 
Research and Statistics, as Assistant Adviser in that Division, effec-
tive January 11, 1971, with annual salary at the rate of $30,100. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:15 p.m. with the same members of the Board present and with the same 
staff attendance as when the Euro-dollar discussion was commenced this 
morning. 
Euro-dollars. 
The Board had before it for consideration a 
memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated January 9, 
1971, outlining the technical characteristics of a program of Federal 
Reserve matched sale-purchase transactions with member banks. 
The 
memorandum noted, among other things, that the effectiveness of such 
transactions (MSP's) and of the contemplated special security issue by 
the Export-Import Bank would be increased if certain amendments were 
adopted to the Board's Regulations D and M, relating, respectively, to 
reserve requirements and foreign activities of member banks. The memo-
randum also noted that an amendment by the Federal Open Market Committee 
to its continuing authority directive would be required to implement the 
MSP proposal. 
In memoranda dated January 8, 1971, Mr. Hackley expressed the 
°Pinion that the proposed matched sale-purchase transactions would be 
legally supportable, and that the fixing of reserve requirements in a 

61 
1/11/71 
-9-
manner designed to encourage the holding by member banks of their 
Euro-dollar liabilities would not be subject to legal objection. 
Specifically, the Division of International Finance recommended 
in the January 9 memorandum that a total outstanding volume of MSP's 
of $1-1/4 billion be authorized as a contingency measure, with the 
thought that as necessary the Open Market Account Trading Desk could 
make such agreements at a rate of $300 million a week over the course 
°f a month. It was also recommended that the MSP's be allocated to 
banks in proportion to their outstanding liabilities to branches in the 
most recent computation period, that the maturity be four weeks, once 
the introductory period had passed, and that the Federal Reserve fix 
an appropriate yield spread for each offering of MSP's over the one-
month Euro-dollar deposit rate. 
The Board was advised that according to the Treasury it was 
hoped that announcement could be made this week of the issuance by the 
Export-Import Bank of the special issue of securities to be sold to 
the foreign branches of U.S. banks. The first step would accordingly 
he taken in a program to help moderate repayments of Euro-dollars that 
would also include, hopefully, the issuance of securities by the 
treasury and, on a contingency basis, matched sale-purchase transactions 
by the Federal Reserve. 
Finally, under such a program, further consid-
eration might be given if necessary to an adjustment of the reserve 
requirements of member banks to encourage their holding of Euro-dollars. 

G 2 
1/11/71 
- 7 -
Today's discussion centered on the proposed amendments to the 
Board's regulations that would be complementary to the sale of the 
special Eximbank securities. A first proposed amendment would have 
the effect of allowing U.S. banks that bought the special securities 
to count holdings thereof toward the preservation of their reserve-free 
bases. A second proposed amendment would have the additional effect of 
allowing banks to increase their reserve-free bases by means of pur-
chases of the special security. 
After discussion all members of the Board tentatively agreed 
to amendment of the Board's regulations along the lines of the first 
Proposal, and it was understood that a draft of such an amendment would 
be discussed with the Treasury and the Export-Import Bank. 
Several members of the Board expressed skepticism with regard 
to the second proposal. 
Doubts were expressed regarding the viability 
°f the reserve-free bases, the advisability of taking steps that would 
encourage maintaining or increasing those bases over the longer run as 
a Part of Federal Reserve policy, and the attractiveness to banks of 
fche proposal. On the other hand, an argument was made in favor of the 
Proposal on grounds of equity considerations. 
It was eventually agreed 
that the proposal would be considered further as and when appropriate 
although the majority of the Board did not find the case for it partic-
ularly persuasive as of today. 

6 3 
1/11/71 
- 9 -
There also was discussion of the presentation of the MSP 
contingency plan to the Federal Open Market Committee tomorrow. 
It 
was concluded that the Committee should be familiarized with the pro-
posal and how it would fit into the overall package, and with the type 
of action that would be required on the part of the Committee to permit 
the plan to be activated later if the need should develop, but that no 
action on the proposal at tomorrow's Committee meeting should be 
contemplated. 
All members of the Board present at today's meeting except 
Governor Robertson indicated that they would be willing to accept the 
MSP arrangement in principle as an instrument constituting a part of 
Planning on a contingency basis, although some noted that they would 
want to discuss the details of the operation of such a program at 
greater length before it was activated. 
Governor Robertson expressed 
opposition on the grounds that he doubted the legality of the proposed 
sale-purchase transactions and also because it appeared to him that 
the analysis of the need for such a program was incomplete. 
It was understood that appropriate documentation would be 
distributed to the Federal Open Market Committee in preparation for 
the discussion of the MSP proposal tomorrow and that thereafter the 
Board would address itself again to the question of amending its regu-
lat ions. It was noted that the method of allocation under the MSP 

64 
1/11/71 
-9-
plan was another aspect of the matter that would require consideration 
at the appropriate time. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. I 
1/11/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
6 5 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
PAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC., 
1 
Miami, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
' 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
' 
First Bank of Plantation, Plantation, 
1 
Florida. 
» 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Pan American Bancshares, Inc., 
Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cent 
o f the voting shares of First Bank of Plantation, Plantation, Florida 
("Plantation Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida 
Commissioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. 
Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

66 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 5, 1970 (35 Federal Register 17076), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the 
hanks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
he served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant controls five banks with aggregate deposits of 
$147 million, representing 1.2 per cent of total bank deposits in 
Florida. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to 
reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
by 
the Board to date.) Applicant is the thirteenth largest holding 
company and banking organization in the State. 
Its acquisition of 
Plantation Bank, with deposits of $22 million, would not change 
this ranking and would increase Applicant's control of deposits in 
the state to 1.4 per cent. 
Plantation Bank, located in and primarily serving the 
C lty of Plantation, is the ninth largest of 20 banks located in the 

67 
-3-
Fort Lauderdale banking market, holding 3.6 per cent of total deposits. 
Plantati on Bank was the smaller of two banks within its primary service 
area on June 30, 1970. Since that time, three charters have been 
granted for new banks in the area. Two of these are affiliates of 
large banking groups and the third is affiliated with Plantation Bank 
through common directorships. 
(Since that bank and Plantation Bank 
are nonmember banks, this affiliation is not prohibited by section 8 
°f the Clayton Act.) 
Applicant's closest present subsidiary to Plantation Bank 
is located 26 miles south in Miami Beach. There is no present com-
petition between this or any other of Applicant's existing subsid-
iaries and Plantation Bank. However, Applicant has received approval 
to acquire Commercial National Bank of Broward County ("Broward 
Bank"), which is located eight road miles northeast of Plantation 
Bank. Existing competition between these two banks is minimal 
since the area primarily served by each bank is separated from the 
area served by the other by major highways. While there is a 
likelihood of some competition developing in the future between 
the banks, the amount of competition does not appear to be signi-
ficant and any adverse effect from its elimination is outweighed 
ky other circumstances. 
Upon consummation of the proposal, Applicant would have 
some degree of control over three of the 20 banks in the Fort 
Lauderdale market and 5.7 per cent of deposits in the market (those three 
banks are Plantation Bank, Broward Bank, and the bank affiliated 
by common directorship with Plantation Bank). Applicant would 

14 
- 2 -
become the fifth largest of eight banking groups in a market where 
the largest two groups control 35 per cent and 28 per cent of total 
deposits respectively. Consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would eliminate no significant existing or potential competition, 
would have no adverse effects on the viability or competitive effec-
tiveness of any competing bank, and may even have a procompetitive 
effect in the Fort Lauderdale market. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed acquisition would not have a significantly 
adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. The banking 
factors are consistent with approval. 
The factors of convenience 
and needs lend support to approval of the application in that 
Plantation Bank, drawing on the resources of Applicant, would be 
able to offer its customers another convenient alternate for such 
services as international banking and trust services. 
It is 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the 
Public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
bindings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 

69 
- 5 -
°f this Order, unless such time be extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
^legated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 11, 1971, 
• Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
•{[SEAL] 

70 
Item No. 2 
1/11/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C, 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
SOCIETY CORPORATION, 
1 
Cleveland, Ohio, 
1 
approval of acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of The 
1 
Second National Bank of Ravenna, Ravenna, 
1 
Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Society Corporation, Cleveland, 
Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Second National Bank of Ravenna, Ravenna, Ohio ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller offered no 
Ejection to approval of the application. 

- 2 -
7.1 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 20, 1970 (35 Federal Register 17879), 
providing an opportunity £or interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
Was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
Managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the 
hanks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest bank holding company and the 
fourth largest banking organization in Ohio, controls nine banks with 
aggregate deposits of close to $1,007 million, representing 5.0 per 
cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data 
are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding company actions approved 
by 
the Board to date.) Upon acquisition of Bank (approximately $31 
mi-llion deposits), Applicant would control 5.2 per cent of the com-
mercial bank deposits in the State; its position relative to other 
banking organizations and holding companies would remain the same. 

- 3 -
w o 
f' 
Bank is headquartered in Ravenna, 18 miles northeast of Akron 
and 35 miles southeast of Cleveland, and operates four offices in Portage 
County. The banks in Portage County are regarded as being in the Akron 
banking market. Of the 11 banks in that market, Bank is eighth in size 
on the basis of deposits and holds less than 3 per cent of the deposits 
in the area. Bank, with 17.2 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
in the county, is the third largest of the six Portage County banks 
competing in Bank's service area. The two larger banks in the county 
are almost twice the size of Bank. Applicant's subsidiary bank 
located 
closest to Bank is Society National Bank of Cleveland, which has a branch 
office in Solon (Cuyahoga County), 20 miles northwest of Bank's main 
°ffice. Neither Society National Bank of Cleveland nor any other of 
Applicant's present subsidiaries compete with Bank to a significant 
e*tent. In the light of the distances between Applicant's present 
subsidiaries and Bank, the presence of numerous banking facilities in 
intervening areas, and Ohio's restrictive branching law, it appears 
unlikely that consummation of the proposal herein would foreclose any 
significant potential competition. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposal would not have an adverse effect on competition in any 
relevant area. The banking factors are regarded as consistent with 
aPproval. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
c°nimunities to be served lend some weight in support of approval; Appli-
cant proposes to broaden Bank's lending services and to make trust 

73 
services available through Applicant's lead bank in Cleveland. 
It is 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the 
public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the find-
ings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
B>>) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
time be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Sank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 11, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns ani Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Keutieth A. Kenycn 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
