MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 11, 1969 

2502 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 11, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Schober, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Misses Ormsby and Wolcott of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Bilby, Consultant in connection with discount 
matters 
Other appropriate members of the Board's staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 

9/11/69 
-2-
The following items were approved unanimously after consid-
eration of background information that had been made available to 
the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of America, New York, New 
1 
York, granting consent to continue to hold 
stock of Banco Intercontinental Espanol, 
Madrid, Spain, after the latter acquires shares 
of Athos, S.A., Madrid. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
2 
approving a revision of employee salary struc-
tures applicable to the head office and branches. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The National Bank of West-
field, Westfield, New Jersey, into The Central Jersey Bank and Trust 
Company, Freehold Township, New Jersey, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclu-
sion stating that the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
consolidation of The Boardwalk National Bank, Egg Harbor Township, 
Atlantic County, New Jersey, and The Salem National Bank & Trust 
Company, Salem, New Jersey, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
While there is no effective competition between The 
Boardwalk National Bank, Egg Harbor Township, and The 

2 8 0 4 
9/11/69 
-3-
Salem National Bank & Trust Company, there is some limited 
potential for increased competition between the two banks. 
The effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly-
adverse. 
Inquiry was made by a Board member about the status of an 
analysis that had been requested of the banking structure in New Jersey 
in the light of recent State legislation. It was stated that material 
had been received from the New York and Philadelphia Reserve Banks, 
and the Board member expressed the hope that a paper could be made 
available to the Board within the relatively near future. 
Interpretations of Regulation Z. Unanimous approval was given 
to interpretations of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, relating to 
(1) property insurance written in connection with a transaction, 
obtained from or through the creditor; (2) treatment of a "pick-up 
payment" in an instalment contract; and (3) application of the minor 
irregularities provisions in determining the amount of the finance 
charge. A copy of the interpretations in the form in which they were 
sent to the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 3. 
Retirement System. In a memorandum dated September 9, 1969, 
Governor Maisel discussed certain proposed changes in the Retirement 
System of the Federal Reserve Banks regarding benefits payable in 
the event of death or disability occurring in active service. 
These 
proposed changes were referred to in an attached memorandum dated 

9/11/69 
-4-
September 8, 1969, from the Committee on Management and Personnel 
of the Presidents' Conference, and in more detail in another attached 
memorandum dated August 25, 1969, from the Chairman of the Conference 
Subcommittee on Personnel. The Conference of Presidents had endorsed 
the proposed changes at its meeting on September 8. 
In his memorandum Governor Maisel stated that, in order that 
revision of the Rules and Regulations of the Retirement System might 
be completed for consideration at a special meeting of the Board of 
Trustees to be held on September 22 it was necessary for the Board 
of Governors to indicate whether it would look with favor on provision 
of death and disability benefits under a group insurance program, 
in lieu of the death and disability benefits now provided under the 
Retirement System. 
At today's meeting Governor Maisel summarized the principal 
features of the proposal and stated that the main question facing the 
Board appeared to be whether to accept the proposed package of addi-
tional benefits, with the higher cost involved, or to push for a 
reduction in cost with resultant reduction in the level of benefits. 
After discussion, during which emphasis was placed on the 
attractiveness of the proposed death and disability coverage in recruit 
ing and retaining younger employees, it was understood that the Board 
would look with favor on the provision of death and disability benefits 
along the lines proposed, under a group insurance program. 

2
8
0
6 
9/11/69 
-5-
Discount administration. 
The substance of a letter to a 
Reserve Bank regarding procedures to be followed in handling requests 
from nonmember banks for loans under the authority of paragraph 13 
of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act had been transmitted to all 
Federal Reserve Banks under date of August 21, 1969. The letter was 
the subject of comment during the September 2 telephone conference 
call on discount administration. 
In a memorandum dated September 8 
the Office of the Secretary discussed questions that had been raised 
with respect to the requirement that initial applications for credit 
be submitted to the Board for consideration and approval, and the 
relationship of this requirement to regular operating procedures and 
the special arrangements for lending to mutual savings banks during 
1966. 
The subject had also been discussed at the September 8 meeting 
of the Conference of Presidents, and the Chairman of the Committee 
on Discounts and Credits (Mr. Hayes) was authorized to express to the 
Board the concern of the Conference about the requirement for specific 
Board approval, as opposed to the establishment of general guidelines. 
Mr. Holland stated that the Conference apparently would be 
willing to undertake the drafting of appropriate guidelines, and he 
recommended that the Board interpose no objection. He also suggested 
that it would help to clarify the area if copies of a confidential 
memorandum from Mr. Keir, dated July 3, 1969, which discussed procedures 

9/11/69 
-6-
that might be implemented in the event emergency lending to nonmember 
institutions to deal with unusual liquidity pressures should become 
necessary, were sent to the Conference of Presidents. 
There was general agreement that it would be appropriate to 
release the Keir memorandum to the Presidents for comment, subject 
to an understanding that its contents would be held in strict confi-
dence. It was also the consensus that guidelines developed by the 
Reserve Banks should be directed to emergency situations involving 
individual nonmember institutions rather than to national or regional 
emergencies of the type considered in the Keir memorandum. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Chairman 
of the Conference of Presidents in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Center for the Study of Responsive Law. A draft reply to a 
letter from the Center for the Study of Responsive Law relating to 
the availability of certain categories of Board documents and other 
materials had been distributed. 
It was the consensus that the reply should reflect a positive 
approach, and several suggestions were made for editorial changes with 
that point in mind. A more general suggestion was that the Board should 
take the initiative in releasing materials where it was possible to do 
so without creating particular problems. Another view expressed was 
that this group (the Center) should not have special status with respect 
to the availability of information. 

2
8
0
8 
9/11/69 
-7-
Certain portions of the proposed reply relating to the confi-
dentiality of material were considered in light of the Public Infor-
mation Act, and the content of the reply was also viewed from the 
standpoint of access of the general public to similar information. 
There was some further discussion of the question whether 
separate replies should be drafted for the individual Board members 
who had received letters from the Center or whether a group reply 
would suffice. In view of the thrust of a number of the questions, 
some of the members of the Board were inclined to favor individual 
replies, and it was understood that the staff would be prepared to assist, 
as requested, in the drafting of responses. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter from Mr. Molony 
to the Center for the Study of Responsive Law in the form attached as 
Item No. 5. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
"Parsons Group" banks. In memoranda dated September 9 and 10, 
1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed negotiations 
with respect to guidelines being developed by the bank supervisory 
agencies in an effort to improve the condition of "Parsons Group" banks. 
Proposed interim guidelines submitted to COMAC Company, a Parsons 
Group instrumentality, had been revised by that company, and the amended 
version was deemed unacceptable by the supervisory agencies. 
Another 

9/11/69 
-8-
set of guidelines had now been submitted to the FDIC by COMAC, and 
although those guidelines had not been discussed fully the FDIC had 
requested the Board's views, as well as those of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, with respect to a paragraph relating to access to 
the discount window by Parsons Group banks, as follows: 
"Since the FDIC has indicated the necessity of 
these interim guidelines for the benefit of COMAC client 
banks during this tight money period, it is understood 
that, as a corollary to the acceptance of these guide-
lines by COMAC Company for recommendation to its client 
banks, the Federal Reserve System will provide assistance 
to those client banks in connection with the supplying 
of funds at the Fed. window during this restricted 
interim period." 
In the view of the Division, the above-quoted paragraph was 
unacceptable. 
The Division recommended that the Board's staff be 
authorized to inform the FDIC essentially as follows, with authorization 
to the FDIC to include such a statement in a letter to COMAC if the FDIC 
should so desire: 
"It is the view of the Federal Reserve Board that 
the last paragraph of the COMAC letter of September 3, 
1969, regarding 'the supplying of funds at the Fed. 
window' is so ambiguous as to be impossible to comment 
upon, but that in any event access to the Federal Reserve 
discount window by all member banks is governed by the 
provisions of the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation A, 
which cannot be altered to provide special privileges 
to any particular bank or group of banks." 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had prepared a memorandum 
on the matter, which had been submitted to the Board for consideration 

2810 
9/11/69 
-9-
both from the standpoint of content and appropriateness of direct 
communication with the FDIC. However, in a recent telephone conver-
sation an officer of the Bank had expressed the Bank's inclination 
to withdraw from the dialogue and leave further negotiations in the 
hands of the Board. 
The staff responded to a number of questions from members 
of the Board regarding points of law, regulation, and discount window 
administration, following which the Board authorized communication to 
the FDIC of language along the lines recommended by the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2
m
i 
••fjSiRiS?--
•••••• 
B O A R D 
D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
item No. 1 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9/11/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
AOORESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 11, 1969 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 
10004 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of July 10, 1969, the Board of Governors grants 
consent for your Corporation ("B of A") to continue to hold 
the stock of Banco Intercontinental Espanol ("BIE"), Madrid, 
Spain, after BIE acquires all of the shares of Athos, S.A., 
Madrid, Spain, at a cost of approximately $1,587,840, which 
is understood to be in excess of 10 per cent of BIE's capital 
and surplus, provided the shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is granted on the condition 
that Athos, S.A. shall not undertake any operations or activities 
other than the holding of premises for BIE. 
The foregoing consent is also given with the under-
standing that the acquisition will be made with resources of 
BIE and will not involve any transfer of funds, either directly 
or indirectly, from the United Stages. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

O o ' a O 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9/11/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OKc-ICIAU CDKRCSPQNDCNCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 11, 1969 
C O N F I D E N T I A L (FR) 
M r . Aubrey N . Heflin, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear M r . Heflin: 
As requested in your letter of August 15, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for 
the respective grades of the Richmond-Charlocte Branch structure, 
effective September 12, 1969, and the Baltimore Branch structure, 
effective September 8, 1969: 
Richmond -Charlotte 
Baltimore 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1 
$ 3,328 
$ 4,303 
$ 3,328 
$ 4,368 
2 
3,354 
4,524 
3,601 
4,849 
• 
3 
3,666 
4,953 
3,913 
5,278 
4 
3,965 
5,356 
4,277 
5,772 
5 
4,420 
5,967 
4,810 
6,487 
6 
4,927 
6,643 
5,278 
7,124 
7 
5,447 
7,358 
5,798 
7,813 
8 
6,058 
8,190 
6,422 
8,671 
9 
6,656 
8,996 
7,124 
9,607 
10 
7,241 
9,776 
7,735 
10,439 
11 
8,177 
11.037 
8,528 
11,518 
12 
9,113 
12,311 
9,373 
12,662 
13 
10,062 
13,572 
10,062 
13,572 
14 
11,154 
15,054 
11,154 
15,054 
15 
12,350 
16,666 
12,350 
16,666 
16 
13,624 
18,382 
13,624 
18,382 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees 
within the limits specified for the grades in which their respective 
positions are 
c l a s s i f i e d . 
All employees whose salaries are below 
the minimum of their grades as a result cf these structure increases 
should be brought within appropriate ranges by December 1, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
lil 

2813 
i 
Item N o . 3 
9/11/69 
c
*M>l.i t • 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL PESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226 - TRUTH IN LENDING 
Miscellaneous Interpretations 
Interpretation § 226.405 is amended to read as follows: 
.405 
Property insurance written in connection with a transaction—obtained 
from or tnrough the creditor 
(a) 
Footnote 4 to § 226.4(a)(6) specifies that a policy of insurance 
a
8aii>8t loss or damage to property or liability arising out of its use is not 
c
°flsidered to be "written in connection with" a transaction when it ". . . was 
n
°t purchased by the customer for the purpose of being used in connection with 
that extension of credit." 
Therefore, whenever such a policy is purchased by 
customer for the purpose of being used in connection with a specific 
tension of credit, it is insurance "written in connection with" that 
t r a
n s a c t i o n . 
th; 
(b) 
If the customer elects to purchase such insurance otherwise 
l a n
 from or through the creditor, the creditor is not required to disclose 
the 
Ho 
cost of the insurance or include the premium in the finance charge, 
'^ever, if the cost of such insurance is to be financed through the creditor, 
Premiums must be included in the "amount financed" and disclosed under 
® 
8(c)(4) or (d)(1), as the case may be. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1605) 

. 
2S14 
-2-
5 226.504 
Treatment of "pick-up payment" in an instalment contract 
(a) 
In some instanr.es involving an instalment contract, arising 
from a credit sale, the purchaser may not pay the full amount of the required 
J 
i n p a y m e n t at the time he signs the contract or otherwise enters into the 
C r
edit transaction. 
In such cases, the creditor may include in the instalment 
c
°ntract or accept a separate obligation for the unpaid portion of the down-
P
a
yment, commonly called a "pick-up payment," the amount of which usually 
C n r
r i e s no finance charge and is to be paid on or before a specified date 
independent of the other scheduled payments. 
(b) The question arises whether the "pick-up payment" must be 
t r
eated as part of f;he "amount financed" for purposes of disclosure and 
J 
termination of the "annual percentage rate" or whether it may be treated 
« deferred portion of the downpayment, 
(c) 
In determining the "amount financed" the creditor may exclude 
amount of the "pick-up payment" provided that: 
(1) The amount of the finance charge applicable to the transaction 
do 
G s
 not exceed the amount that would have been imposed had the required down-
P
a
yment been paid in full upon consummation of the transaction; and 
(2) The due date of the "pick-up payment" is not later than the 
date of the second payment otherwise scheduled. 
(d) 
In making the disclosures requirec under § 226.8(b)(3), if such 
Pick-up payment" is more than twice the amount of an otherwise regularly 
S c
heduled equal payrrent, the creditor shall state the conditions, if any, under 
^ich such "pick-up payment" may be refinanced if not paid when due; and such 
M 
P l
c k - u p payment" may be identified using that term or. the term "balloon 
P a
Vttent." 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1606) 

$ 
2 2 6 . 5 0 5 
Application of the_ r n i n o r irregularities provisions 
i n determining 
the air.ouni; of the finance charge 
(a) 
Some creditors calculate finance charges in a credit transaction 
°
n
 
basis of predetermined percentage rate or rates, e,g., 17c per month 
°
n
 the unpaid balances. Determination of the amount of the finance charge 
X s
 fairly routine for these creditors if the contracts are written for 
t G
gular payments at regular intervals. 
However, many times the first payment 
be irregular either in amount or payment period, or both, especially in 
t> L 
1 0
se instances where creditors reouire payments to fall due on fixed dates 
°
r
 those who are paid by means of payroll deducticns. 
The minor irregularities 
of the Regulation 
Provisions of § 226.5(d)/and § 226.503 of the interpretations to Regulation Z, 
v,
hich pertain to the determination of the annual percentage rate, also apply 
the determination of the finance charge. 
For convenient reference, the 
applicable provisions of § 226.5(d) and § 226.503 as they apply to the 
^'termination of the finance charge are set forth below. 
(b) In determining the finance charge, a creditor may, at his 
0
Ption, consider the payment irregularities set fcrth below in subparagraphs 
and (2) as if they were regular in amount or time, as applicable, 
Provided that the transaction to which they relate is otherwise payable in 
instalments scheduled at equal intervals. 
(1) 
If the period from the date on which the finance charge 
b e
8ins to accrue and the date the final payment is due is not less than 3 months 
i n
 the case of weekly payments, 6 months in the case of biweekly or semimonthly 
p Q
Vments, or 1 year in the case of monthly payments either or both of the 
b l o w i n g : 

.. 2 « t 6 
-4-
(1) The amount of 1 payment other than any downpayment is not 
wore than 50 per cent greater nor 50 per cent less than the amount of a 
regular payment; or 
(ii) 
The interval between the date on which the finance charge 
begins to accrue and the date the first payment is due is not less than 5 
nor more than 12 days for an obligation otherwise? payable in weekly instalments, 
n
°t less than 10 ncr more than 25 days for an obligation otherwise payable in 
biweekly or semimonthly instalments, or not less than 20 nor more than 50 days 
for an obligation otherwise payable in monthly instalments. 
(2) 
If the period from the date on which the finance charge 
begins to accrue and the date the final payment is due is less than 3 months 
in the case of weekly payments, 6 months in the case of biweekly or semimonthly 
Payments, or 1 year in the case of monthly payments, either or both of the 
following: 
(i) The amount of 1 payment other th.3n any downpayment is not more 
than 25 per cent greater nor 25 per cent less than the amount of a regulrr 
Payment; or 
(ii) 
The interval between the date on which the finance charge 
begins to accrue and the date the first payment is due is not less than 6 
nor more than 10 days for an obligation otherwise payable in weekly instalment3, 
not less than 12 nor more than 21 days for an obligation otherwise payable in 
biweekly or.semimonthly instalments, or not less than 25 nor more than 42 days 
for an obligation otherwise payable in monthly instalments. 

(e) 
For the purposes of § 226.8(b)(3) in disclosing the number, 
amount and due dates or periods of payments scheduled to repay the indebtedness 
and the"total of payments," the creditor may treat: such irregular payments or 
Payment periods, or both, as if they were regular. 
If the creditor so elects, 
he may indicate the exact amount or payment p'erioci involved in the minor 
irregul arity. 
(Interprets and applies to 15 U.S.C. 1605) 
Dated at Washington, D. C. the 11th day of September, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) 
Robert P. Forrcstal 
(SE/L) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
9/11/69 

B D A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Of GOvV, 
U F 
T H E 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L 
R !..!•• i ^ R V E S Y S T E M 
9/11/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20351 
T .V>' 
ADOf;E3F5 DrriciAi. CURNCSPOUOCNCI 
TO THE BOAWD 
September 24, 1969 
Mr, Charles J. Scanlon, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Scar. Ion: 
In light of the discussion of emergency lending to nonmember 
banks at the September 8 meeting of the Conference of Presidents, the 
Board felt that it might be helpful for the Conference to review the 
enclosed memorandum dated July 3, 1969, whJ.cn discusses procedures 
that might be implemented in the event emergency lending to nonmember 
institutions to deal with unusual liquidity pressures should become 
necessary. 
Tne memorandum reviews the situation of nontnember institu-
tions as it existed in July of this year, and contains the general 
guidelines developed in 1966 to deal with the liquidity strains that 
occurred during the summer of that year. 
The Board would appreciate 
receiving any comments that the Conference or individual Reserve Bank 
Presidents might care to make on this memorandum. 
It should be 
emphasized that this document is, in effect, a proposed contingency 
plan and should be held in strict confidence by Reserve Bank personnel. 
At the September 8 meeting, the Conference discussed the 
Board's letter of August 21, 1969 (S-2100), regarding the handling of 
requests for advances to nonmember banks under the authority contained 
in the thirteenth paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
It is our understanding that the Presidents have expressed a desire to 
endeavor to draft a set of proposed guidelines to deal with particular 
cases that mi^ht be used in lieu of the procedures specified in S-2100. 
The Board has considered this matter and has no objection 
to the development of -such proposed guidelines with the understanding 
that such guidelines would be complementary to those outlined in the 

Mr. Charles J. Scanlon 
-2-
enclosed memorandum; that is, that the Conference guidelines would deal 
with extensions of credit to individual nonmember institutions to meet 
emergency situations arising from particularized difficulties of such 
individual instituti.ons--e. g. , poor investment policy—assuming that 
any more generalized emergency borrowing needs of nonmember institutions 
from liquidity pressures of a national or regional nature would be dealt 
with by timely implementation of the procedures proposed in the enclosed 
memorandum, with such revisions therein as are deemed advisable. 
I am enclosing 15 copies of the July 3 memorandum with the 
thought that you might prefer to have it distributed to the other 
Presidents directly from your office rather than from the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
RoberL: C 
Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 

2 S 2 0 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• FTHE 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
9/11/69 
September 12, 1969. 
M r . John F . Hahn, 
1054 Shadow Hill W a y , 
Beverly Hills, California. 
Dear M r . Hahn: 
' This follows up on my initial response of August 26 
to your letter setting out categories of documents and other 
materials in which the Center for the Study of Responsive Law 
is interested and asking whether they would be available for 
your perusal. 
With the exceptions noted in the following recapitu-
lation, the items you inquired about could be made available for 
inspection, allowing for the staff time required to assemble 
them. 
"1. a list of all statistics regularly gathered 
for use by the Board of Governors, staff economists, or 
by any District Bank" and 
"2. a list of statistics which come directly 
from banks or private securities dealers." 
The Federal Reserve System gathers and uses, in dis-
charging its statutory responsibilities, a tremendous number of 
statistics, provided by banks, securities dealers, government 
agencies anc. other sources. These deal w:,th such matters as 
assets and liabilities of commercial bank*; and other financial 
institutions; interest rate levels in all segments of the 
financial system; volume of operations in the securities markets; 
stock market credit; open market paper; Federal fiscal operations; 
business finance; real estate credit; consumer credit; industrial 
production; business activity; construction; labor force, employ-
ment, unemployment, and earnings; consumer and wholesale prices; 
national product and income; and flow of funds. At the inter-
national level, statistics collected include data relating to the 
U . S . balance of payments; foreign trade; U . S. gold transactions; 
U . S. gold stock; position in the IMF; international capital trans-
actions of the U . S.; foreign exchange rates; money rates in foreign 
countries; arbitrage on Treasury bills; gold reserves of central 
banks and governments; and gold production. Among the statistics 

Mr. John F. Hahn. 
Z
8
Z
1 
2. 
reported by government securities dealers are daily reports on 
positions, borrowing, and activity for Treasury bills and other 
Treasury issues by maturity categories. 
An all-inclusive list consisting simply of categories 
of data regularly collected, which the above does not purport to 
b e , would be voluminous, but it could be assembled and provided 
for inspection. While you do not ask about the availability of 
the statistics themselves, I might note that practically all of 
them are published as aggregates in the Federal Reserve Bulletin 
and in statistical releases regularly issued by the Board. 
The 
relatively few not so published fall into two categories: 
those 
which could be provided on request and those which are collected 
on a confidential basis and are therefore not available. 
Decisions in this regard would be made in response to specific 
requests. 
"3. a list describing all incidents where an 
appeal to the Board of Governors for disclosure of 
material has been made, with an indication of result, 
reasons for the result, with the addition of the date 
of the first request for information for each incident." 
There have been no instances of appeal under the pro-
visions of Section 261.6(d) of the Board's "Rules Regarding Avail-
ability of Information" (copy enclosed). The requests received 
have been handled to the apparent satisfaction of the requesting 
parties, and a file of requests made under the Public Information 
Act is available for public inspection. 
"4. a list of all things incorporated by refer-
ence into the Federal Register since 1965." 
A file containing copies of all Board entries in the 
Federal Register would be available for inspection. 
"5. any staff memoranda, briefings, or reports 
for any given Federal Open Market Committee meeting 
for 1969." 
These documents are intra-agency memoranda, referred 
to in Section 552(b)(5) of Title 5, United States Code (the Public 
Information Act), and are withheld from public inspection in order 
to maintain the free discussion which is vital to the deliberations 
of the FOMC. 

Mr. John F. Hahn. 
2. 
"6. the minutes for each meeting of the Board 
• of Goverrurs, Federal Advisory Council, and Federal 
Open Market Committee for 1968 and 1969." 
The detailed minutes of each of these groups are also 
intra-agency memoranda and are not available for inspection, again 
to encourage, free discussion. 
However, an extensive summary record 
and complete action minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee 
are available with some deferral (generally about 90 days) occa-
sioned by the fact that the•Committee
1
s decisions direct the course 
of operations to be conducted in the government bond market in the 
future and premature disclosure would be harmful to those operations 
and to the market. Policy and regulatory actions taken by the Board 
of Governor:* are announced as speedily as possible and are later 
summarized in its Annual Report. Since July 1967 the Board has 
maintained a current index providing identifying information for 
the public as to opinions, orders, statements of policy, and inter-
pretations, ali of which involve actions taken at meetings of the 
Board; pertinent papers are also available for inspection on the 
basis described in the Board's "Rules Regarding Availability of 
Information.," 
"7. a list of all groups solicited for advice 
during the study made prior to the drafting of the 
Truth in Lending Act." 
Assuming you mean here "Regulation" instead of "Act," 
such a list could be assembled and provided. 
"8. 
a list of dealers which handle purchases 
and sales of securities through which open market 
activities are carried out." 
A list of dealers in government securities which report 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York could be provided. 
"9. A list of all transactions made with each 
dealer--on a transaction by transaction basis--from 
1960 to the present." 
Summary statistics of such transactions could be pro-
vided. 
Individual data regarding specific transactions with each 
dealer could not be provided. 
(See clause (b)(4) of the Public 
Information Act.) 

Mr. John F. Hahn. 
2. 
"10. a list of all users of the discount 
window from 1960 to the present and the duration of 
each loan." 
Aggregate data on numbers of banks borrowing and 
amounts of borrowing could be provided, but details regarding 
specific loans are not disclosed since to do so would be a breach 
of confidence and possibly damaging to the institution. 
"11. 
files on all merger applications and 
acquisition applications since I960." 
The records on such applications, with minor deletions 
of material such as information regarding the amounts of loans or 
deposits of particular customers, are available for inspection by 
the public. 
"12. all complaints received by the Fed since 
1960" and 
"13. answers to these complaints." 
It is unclear whether you have reference to "complaints" 
about specific actions, regulations and adjudications by the Board 
or correspondence in which concern is expressed in the nature of 
"complaint" against price increases, taxes, stock market declines, 
changes in business conditions, etc., since it is not uncommon for 
the Board to receive comment on developments not directly related 
to the exercise of its statutory authority. The Board does not 
maintain a "complaint file" as such. 
In order to assemble the 
material, it would be necessary to have a better indication of your 
meaning of the term and at least the general subject matter in 
which you are interested; even with this information such an assembly 
effort might well constitute a serious workload problem. 
"14. a description of the personal investment 
portfolio of each member of the Board of Governors and 
Boards of Directors of each District Bank." 
Board members file this information with the Civil Ser-
vice Commission, under Executive Order which also establishes the 
confidentiality of the information. The Board has no information 
in this regard with respect to the Reserve Bank Boards of Directors 
other than an affirmation from each Class C director that he does 
not own any bank stock. 
"15. attendance records at regular meetings of 
each member of the Board of Governors and Boards cf 
Directors of each District Bank." 
This information could be assembled and provided. 

Mr. John F. Hahn. 
2. 
"16. 
a list of all companies which have 
received loans for defense production under Regula-
tion V since 1955, plus the amounts and terms of 
each loan, and the name of the lender involved." 
Under Regulation V the Federal Reserve acts in the 
capacity of fiscal agent for the guaranteeing Federal agencies. 
Decisions with regard to the availability of detailed information 
pertaining to such loans rest with those agencies. We could, 
however, supply aggregate data. 
"17. 
a complete staffing report of the entire 
system, showing a breakdown of sections, jobs, grades, 
etc." 
Information on sections, jobs, and grades for the 
Board's organization can be made available. 
"18. a list of all academicians who have 
participated in Academic Consulting Meetings since 
1960, and minutes of those meetings, and locales of 
the meetings." 
A list of those participating in such meetings could 
be provided. The Board does not keep minutes of these meetings. 
With regard to locale, these meetings are always held in the 
offices of the Board in Washington, D . C. 
"19. a list of all hearings, public and pri-
vate, on bank mergers or acquisitions that occurred 
before the Board of Governors, or members thereof, 
from 1955." 
Such a list could be provided. 
"20. 
the complete internal audit of the Board 
and District banks." 
The balance sheet for the Board of Governors as of 
year-end, the related statement of assessments and expenses for 
the year, and a public accountant's opinion thereon are included 
in each Annual Report. A detailed statement of earnings and 
expenses of each Federal Reserve Bank is likewise included in the 
Annual Report. The reports of examination of the Reserve Banks, 
which constitute intra-agency memoranda t3 the Board from members 
of its examining staff, are confidential, for reasons previously 
stated. 

2 S 2 5 
Mr. John F. Hahn. 2. 
"21. a list of occasions where the Board of 
Governors has publicly chastized specific banks for 
specific practices." 
The Board has brought legal proceedings against 
specific banks, but the Board does not engage in the practice of 
public chastisement of specific banks. 
"22. 
a description of the standards used to 
decide whether there is to be notice to the public 
and public participation with respect to proposed. 
regulations 
- The standards are published in Rule 262.2(c) of the 
Board's Rules of Procedure. 
"23. a list of occasions on which public 
participation was invited from 1955 to the present." 
Such a list could be provided. 
As noted earlier, staff time required to assemble 
information would be a factor in the time period in which any 
request could be met. 
In many of the above cases, information 
is not maintained in a single centralized place under the cate-
gories that you list. This could at times result in a serious 
or even intolerable workload problem in assembling the material. 
In such cases it would be necessary to ask that you be more 
specific as to the areas of your interest. 
However, subject to 
the conditions set out in the foregoing recapitulation, the Board 
would be prepared to respond to any such specific requests. 
Our 
usual charges of $5 per hour for the time required to locate 
records and prepare them for inspection, plus 10 cents per stan-
dard page for any copying thereof, as set forth in Section 
261.4(d) of the Board's "Rules Regarding Availability of Informa-
tion," would be applicable. 
Sincerely yours, 
Charles Molony, 
Assistant to the Board. 
Enclosure. 
