m 
-U 
Minutes for 
June 25, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
mY 
if; 
A * 
I « , { 
'"-'.flu* 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
; .I •!,-; 
S i 
Should you have any question with regard 
t o the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
T f 
A t you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°
nly that you have seen the minutes. 
JLVI',,1; 
Wi 
•W 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
itv; 

IMIfmtWM 
' \4t 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 25, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
•V V'^' V 
V;. ' ' 
1 >. 
| , > 
l | S 
... 
< * v 
. syf) 
.•V V. 
>YV: 
• 
1 \» 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Shull, Lawrence, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Doyle, Porter, and Sanders of the 
Legal Division 
Mr. Walter of the Division of Bank Operations 
Messrs. Goodfellow, Lyon, and Maguire of the 
Division of Examinations 
k 

6/25/68 
-2-
Back Bay-Orient Enterprises (Items 1-3). Reference was made 
to applications by three Edge corporations for permission to purchase 
shares of Back Bay-Orient Enterprises, Inc., a Massachusetts corpora-
tion 
that functioned as a management consultant to various newly-formed 
enterprises in Korea and also in an investment banking capacity by pro-
viding equity capital for industrial development in Korea. Since the 
Proposed investments were in a domestic corporation, they would not be 
deluded in the foreign assets of the applicants for purposes of the 
f o reign credit restraint program. In view of questions raised when 
t h e a p p l i c a t i o n s 
w e r e originally considered by the Board, those ques-
tions had been studied further by Governor Brimmer and the staff. 
Governor Brimmer pointed out that this case involved investments 
n o t covered by either the Commerce Department program or the guidelines 
o f the Federal Reserve program. However, he did not believe that the 
P e deral Reserve guidelines should be amended to make them applicable 
r etroactively. Therefore, he would reluctantly approve the applications 
Governor Robertson said that he continued to have reservations. 
T h e Proposed investments would adversely affect the U.S. balance of 
Payment8. if they were approved, he felt that the situation should be 
V i e w e d before another similar application was received so that pre-
V e n t i v e steps could be taken if that seemed desirable. 
Governor Brimmer replied that he and the staff would review 
6 Sidelines and submit a proposal to amend them if the potential 

6/25/68 
- 3-
P
roblem seemed sufficiently important. They might also talk with the 
Commerce Department. He was glad that the Board had been alerted to 
Problem by the current applications, but he did not feel that the 
Board should go back and amend the guidelines to block them. 
Governor Robertson noted that his concern had to do with the 
£ 
c t that the procedure might be used as a device to circumvent the 
foreign credit restraint program. It was fortunate that the current 
Pplications involved an underdeveloped country (Korea), so that not 
m u c h harm would be done by permitting the investments. 
Governor Brimmer repeated that he and the staff would study 
Problem and bring a recommendation back to the Board if that 
Pitied necessary. 
Unanimous approval then was given to letters to the three 
aPplic 
a n t Edge corporations granting permission to purchase shares 
®
ack Bay-Orient Enterprises. Copies are attached as Items 1-3. 
Reports on competitive factors. There had been distributed 
9 
D L * A -P 
°f report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
c to 
r s involved in the proposed merger of Bank of Las Vegas, Las 
Nevada, and Valley Bank of Nevada, Reno, Nevada, into Nevada 
a tional R i 
oank of Commerce, Reno, Nevada. 
V ega s 
that 
There was general agreement with the conclusion of the staff 
the overall effect of the proposal on competition would be sub-
8 tanti a l l 
AJ-y adverse. However, there was some discussion as to how the 

«o • 
6/25/68 
-4-
conclusion might most appropriately be worded in view of the apparent 
effect on existing and potential competition of the recent acquisition 
°f control of Nevada National Bank of Commerce by parties associated 
wi-th Bank of Las Vegas. After the discussion of that point, unanimous 
gEEloval was given to the transmittal of a report in which the conclu-
sion read as follows: 
Until recently Nevada National Bank of Commerce was 
a chief competitor of both of the other banks involved 
in this proposal. In recent months, as a result of a 
stock purchase, a degree of common stock ownership has 
arisen between Nevada National Bank of Commerce, Reno, 
and Bank of Las Vegas and Valley Bank of Nevada, Reno. 
This has diminished the previous degree of competition. 
Consummation of this transaction would preclude the 
restoration of such competition and the development of 
future competition through the establishment of de novo 
branches. Further, consummation of the proposal would 
increase the already high levels of concentration in 
the Reno and Las Vegas markets and would reduce the num-
ber of banking alternatives in each market from 5 to 4. 
The proposed merger would combine the second, third, 
and seventh largest banks in Nevada which control, in 
the aggregate, 28 per cent of total banking deposits in 
the State. The resulting institution, together with 
two banks controlled by Western Bancorporation, Los 
Angeles, California, a registered bank holding company, 
would hold 88 per cent of Nevada's commercial banking 
deposits. The proposal would reduce the number of 
banks in Nevada from nine to seven. 
The overall effect of the proposal on competition 
would be substantially adverse. 
Pursuant to discussion at the Board meeting on June 14, 
there had been distributed a revised draft of report to 
th 
federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive fac 
°
rs involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption 

2433 
6/25/68 
-5-
°f deposit liabilities of The Peoples Bank, Atlanta, Georgia, by 
American Bank of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia. The revised report, in 
which the conclusion read as follows, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Corporation: 
Competition between American Bank of Atlanta and 
The Peoples Bank, both of Atlanta, Georgia, is rather 
limited because the two banks generally direct their 
efforts to different sectors of the deposit and loan 
market. While there is potential for greater competi-
tion between the two banks, numerous alternatives will 
remain and the resulting bank would be in a position 
to compete more effectively with the larger banks in 
the area. The overall effect of the acquisition on 
competition would be slightly adverse. 
Pursuant to the understanding at yesterday's meeting of the 
Board, further consideration was given to the report to be made to 
the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive factors involved 
the proposed merger of Maryland National Bank, Baltimore, Maryland, 
a n d Western Maryland Trust Company, Frederick, Maryland. 
Governor Brimmer, who had not been present at yesterday's 
m eeting } said that although he agreed with certain modifications in 
th 
e text of the report along lines suggested by Governor Maisel, he 
n evertheless concluded that the overall competitive effect of the 
transaction would be no more than slightly adverse. 
Other Board members indicated that their views continued to 
the same as they had indicated at yesterday's meeting. 
Accordingly, 
"^Eloval was given to the transmittal of a report in which the conclu-
S:i"
0n read as follows, Governors Robertson and Maisel dissenting because 
th 
ey felt that the competitive effect should be cited as adverse: 

° 4 3 
6/25/68 
-6-
There appears to be little competition existing 
between Maryland National Bank, Baltimore, and Western 
Maryland Trust Company, Frederick, but opportunity exists 
for greater competition since de novo branching is legal. 
The proposed merger would increase slightly Maryland Na-
tional Bank's position as the State's largest bank. The 
overall competitive effect of the transaction would be 
slightly adverse. 
Coin separation equipment (Item No. 4). There had been dis-
tributed a draft of reply to Mr. Fred S. Broach, President of Broach 
Systems, Little Ferry, New Jersey, who had inquired about the Board's 
K 
intent with respect to the use of equipment to separate silver and 
clad coins held by Federal Reserve Banks and had proposed an arrange-
etit for the use of his company's machines for a fee based on the 
'Mr, > 
dumber of bags processed. The draft of reply was based on suggestions 
rtj-f? 
r eceived from President Hickman, Chairman of the Committee on Currency 
an<3 Coin of the Presidents' Conference, who had consulted the Subcom-
, 
J : : 
m*-ttee on Currency and Coin. 
'' y.' >'(\ 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the reply should be 
m°
r e explicit, if the facts warranted, with regard to an earlier con-
' A 
t?" 
a c t between the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and Mr. Broach's 
w 
firm 
It appeared that a commitment had been made to purchase four 
^chines if thev could conform to certain specifications, but that the 
°
0lnPany had failed to perform and had been asked to remove its machines 
I { 
fro 
111 the Reserve Bank at the end of the test period. The company had 
t t l e n m a <3e certain improvements in its equipment, but tests of two 

«• > .1 » ) r— 
6/25/68 
-7-
lmP
r°ved models indicated that the equipment would not be as satisfac-
tory as that of certain other companies for Federal Reserve use. It 
W a s understood that Mr. Broach had been informed of that conclusion. 
As to Mr. Broach's new proposition for the use of his equip-
m e n t on a fee basis, Governor Brimmer suggested that the reply point 
0 u t that this was received too late for consideration, a judgment 
"aving already 
been made that the purchase of equipment by the Reserve 
®
anks was a more desirable arrangement. 
Governor Brimmer added that his work with the Treasury and the 
^
eserve Banks on arrangements for the separation of silver and clad 
c°ins had indicated to him that the matter was handled in a systematic 
m anner. He felt, therefore, that the record should be clear. 
After some discussion, during which general agreement was 
xP
ressed with the points made by Governor Brimmer, Governor Robertson 
u8gested changes in the draft letter that might be suitable for the 
P
U rPose« 
Governor Brimmer stated that he would regard such changes 
S a t i s factory. Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a 
Is t* 
e r to Mr. Broach in the form attached as Item No. 4, with the 
n c*
e rstanding that a copy would be sent to Assistant Secretary of the 
T r e a s u r y Wallace. 
v 
_ 
Proposal of Morgan Guaranty (Item No. 5). There came up for 
furth 
l e r consideration an application by Morgan Guaranty International 
i r i ance Corporation, New York, New York, for permission to acquire all 

. o l U J b 
6/25/68 
-8-
°f the capital stock of a new corporation, Morgan Guaranty Finance 
Limited, that would be organized under the laws of Bermuda. It was 
understood that the Bermuda company would issue dollar-denominated 
ttotes for sale abroad. Proceeds of the notes, together with the 
Paid-in capital of the company, would be deposited with the foreign 
branches of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company. The deposits would be 
used by the branches to make loans to independent borrowers in the 
°rdinary course of their commercial banking business. 
The question raised in this case was whether the proceeds of 
th 
e Promissory notes would constitute deposits subject to the reserve 
r equirements 
Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and the inter-
e s t limitations of Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits. In 
a Memorandum dated June 7, 1968, the Legal Division, with Mr. Doyle 
S senting, reached the conclusion that the promissory notes and the 
Ability of the member bank in connection therewith involved deposits 
th 
Would be subject to Regulations D and Q. 
> 
T 
•Ln a memorandum dated June 10, 1968, the Division of Examina-
tions concurred in the position suggested by the Legal Division. 
In 
m e inorandum dated June 12, 1968, the Division of International Finance 
indiCnf. a 
«ced that it would favor any procedure that in effect left the 
a8sets f 
°t the Bermuda corporation outside the guidelines of the foreign 
restraint program. This could be accomplished either (1) by 
cred i t 
n 8 that Morgan Guaranty Trust Company did not receive a deposit 

4 
6/25/68 
-9-
incur any other liability that need be included in its domestic 
balance sheet) by virtue of its guaranty of the notes issued by the 
Bermuda corporation, or (2) by excluding from assets reportable under 
the foreign credit restraint program the assets that would result from 
treating the guaranty as a liability. 
Mr. Hexter reviewed the reasoning expressed in the Legal Divi-
sion's memorandum of June 7, following which Mr. Doyle discussed the 
analy Si s that had led him to a different conclusion. There followed 
questions by members of the Board, to which the staff responded, on 
technical features of the proposed issuance of notes, the relevant 
statutory provisions, the significance of the guaranty by the parent 
^ank, and the provisions of Regulations D and Q. 
Governor Maisel suggested that it be pointed out to Morgan 
G u aranty that the Bermudian subsidiary's notes would appear to qualify 
U n d e r certain exceptions contained in Regulations D and Q if the notes 
W e r e subordinated to the claims of Morgan Guaranty's depositors and if 
t h e y had original maturities of more than two years. 
Governor Brimmer said that he had found the first part of the 
m e m o r a n d u m from the Division of International Finance particularly 
h e lPful. 
I f M o r g a n Guaranty did not wish to guarantee the notes, pre-
S umabl y the operation would be on exactly the same footing as the 
°
perations of any foreign branch. The first question, then, was the 
U a t U r e of the guaranty, while the second question had to do with the 

2438 
6/25/68 
-10-
treatment of this operation under the foreign credit restraint program. 
alternatives in the latter respect had been set forth clearly in 
the Division's memorandum. It appeared to him that Morgan Guaranty 
m u s t live with the law and should be willing to adjust its procedures 
accordingly. 
Governor Maisel agreed, and again suggested that the alterna-
tives be communicated clearly to Morgan Guaranty. 
Governor Brimmer added that of the two alternatives suggested 
by the Division of International Finance, in terms of the foreign 
credit restraint program, he would favor the second. 
Other members of the Board indicated that they were in general 
a8reement with the conclusion reached by the Legal Division. 
Governor 
dimmer suggested, however, that before a letter was sent to Morgan 
Guaranty it would be desirable for members of the Board's staff to 
d iscuss the matter with representatives of the bank. The case had 
b e e t l pending for some time and the issues were quite complex. In such 
a conversation the staff could inform Morgan Guaranty of the alterna-
tives that appeared to be available. 
It was agreed that the procedure suggested by Governor Brimmer 
w°uld be followed, and that thereafter a letter reflecting the conclu-
s ion of the Legal Division, along with approval of the proposed invest-
m e t l t , would be sent to the applicant, Morgan Guaranty International 
Fi 
n a n c e Corporation. 

— 
6/25/68 
Li* , 
-11-
Secretary's Note: After the staff had 
discussed the situation with representa-
tives of Morgan Guaranty by telephone, 
there was forwarded a letter in the form 
attached as Item No. 5. 
Repurchase participations. Under date of June 6, 1968, there 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division discussing 
a request received through the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago for 
fche Board's views on a proposal by First Wisconsin National Bank of 
Milwaukee, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, under which that bank would sell 
Participations in pools of its mortgage loans pursuant to an agree-
ment under which it would obligate itself to repurchase the participa-
tions. The question was whether that would give rise to deposits for 
the purpose of Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation 
Payment of Interest on Deposits. 
i' 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of reply stating that 
S ale by the bank of participations in its mortgage loans under repur-
chase agreement would not give rise to deposits for the purposes of 
those regulations. The letter would point out, however, that certain 
pr°visions of those regulations had been adopted to prevent use of 
V a rious instruments as a means of circumventing statutory and regula-
t o r y restrictions and requirements applicable to bank deposits, and 
t l l a t the Board might be obliged to modify its regulations if sales of 
P a rticipations in mortgage loans under repurchase agreement were used 
as a means of circumventing reserve requirements and the rules govern-
in ^ P
ayment of interest on deposits. 

«r» 1 
6/25/68 
-12-
In a memorandum dated June 11, 1968, the Division of Examina-
tions expressed the view that it would seem desirable for the kinds 
°f transactions involved to be subject to Regulations D and Q unless 
the Board was willing to countenance a substantial weakening of those 
regulations. 
In a memorandum dated June 12, 1968, the Division of Research 
and Statistics noted that if banks began to sell participations in 
Pooled assets, not only in mortgages but also other assets such as 
consumer instalment loans, the device could provide a sizable poten-
tial for additional bank credit which not only might complicate prob-
e s of monetary control but also could lead to questions about bank 
•Liquidity. 
In a memorandum dated June 12, 1968, the Division of Inter-
n ational Finance stated that unless the Board had a contrary opinion 
t t l e Division would continue to regard the sale, whether under repur-
chase agreement or not, of a foreign asset to a foreign resident as 
removing the asset in question from the scope of the foreign credit 
r e s t r a i n t program. 
After some discussion of technical aspects of the question, 
G o vernor Mitchell observed that in essence a policy decision was 
i t lVol V e d r e i a t i n g 
t 0 monetary control and the degree of innovation 
t h a t should be permitted for the banking system. In his view it was 
^Possible to draw a completely logical line between deposits, debt, 

2441 
6/25/68 
-13-
atid even equity instruments in the banking system. He felt that it 
was not good policy for the Board to discourage every innovation pro-
Posed by banks to improve their capacity to attract funds. Demand 
deposits would fall increasingly into a subservient role unless the 
banks could find ways to attract such deposits. From a broad policy 
stance, he did not think it was advisable to reject such proposals by 
the banking system unless there were clearly some evils that would 
flow from them. He noted that the device here proposed was one that 
would be subject to market disciplines of price and availability. 
Governor Brimmer said that he had started from the same assump-
tion as Governor Mitchell but had reached a different conclusion. He 
a8*eed that the question should be approached in terms of policy 
l ssues, as spelled out in the memorandum from the Research Division. 
l t l hi s view a bank should not be permitted to use repurchase agree-
m e t l t s , outside of Regulations D and Q, for purposes other than to 
°btain short-term financing to support their portfolios of Government 
a t l d agency securities. He would want to reflect further on the ques-
t i o n of a i s o including municipals. But he would not want to include 
°
t h er kinds of securities, for that would create difficulties in terms 
of m monetary management. 
Governor Maisel agreed with Governor Brimmer. He noted that 
t h e general policy issue had been debated at considerable length a 
C°
uPle of years ago when the promissory note question was before the 

6/25/68 
-14-
Board. The basic decision had been made at that time and the problem 
ftow was simply one of clarifying it. 
Mr. Brill observed at this point that the members of the 
research staff were not in complete agreement. Personally he sub-
bribed to Governor Mitchell's view that the Board would be ill-advised 
t o close off the banking system from various opportunities. The deci-
sions made in a series of individual cases could have the result of 
limiting the competitiveness of an important element in the financial 
system, so that it would increasingly be confined to a secondary role 
in 
terms of meeting the needs of the economy. Yet it was difficult 
i n a specific case to quarrel with the precedent that had been estab-
lised i n previous cases. 
i • , 
Mr. Partee noted that Board members had taken the position in 
P
ast that they would prefer not to have to administer Regulation Q. 
As k 
t l e understood it, some members also would not be opposed to removing 
th 
e Prohibition against payment of interest on demand deposits. Fur-
t l l e r> it had been maintained that a system of reserve requirements was 
n o t really needed to regulate the banking system. If those arguments 
e valid, it would be desirable to do away with Regulations D and Q. 
H°Vever, the procedure presently under discussion would permit a bank 
t 0 S e U repurchase participations of any maturity and take out of the 
p 0 s i t category the totality of its mortgage loan portfolio, or even 
iness loan portfolio. Theoretically, a bank could wind up with 
bus 

6/25/68 
-15-
no deposits and only the repurchase agreements standing against its 
assets. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that this was not an appro-
Palate time for the Board to change basically the policies it had been 
Pursuing, whatever the merits of the broader argument. 
Governor Robertson agreed. He proposed that the position 
aPparently favored by a majority of the Board be set forth in regula-
t o r y form rather than by interpretation. As to the question that had 
been raised in respect to the foreign credit restraint program, Gover-
n°
r Robertson suggested that that aspect be worked out by the staff 
W l t h Governor Brimmer. 
Governor Mitchell made further reference to his dissent from 
th 
e proposed action, stating that when a proposal was developed that 
els 
Pended on the use of market reactions and market psychology he 
keli e v e d 
B o a r d should consider it sympathetically, even though 
tl*e Board could always say that this was not the time to change its 
p 0 sture. Otherwise, a banking system might well develop of the kind 
f o 
U n d in Brazil, where the banks used financieras to do the business 
they could not do themselves. 
It was agreed, Governor Mitchell dissenting, that a draft of 
a i t lend m e n t t Q 
R
E
G
U
L
A
T
I
O
N
S 
D 
A
N
D 
Q reflecting today's discussion would 
b e Prepared by the staff for the Board's consideration. 
Application of Commercial Associates (Item No. 6). Unanimous 
was given to a letter to Commercial Associates, Inc., 

/O 444 
6/25/68 
-16-
^ensacola, Florida, granting its request to withdraw its pending appli-
cation to acquire shares of The State Bank of Jacksonville, Jackson-
ville, Florida. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
Securities market. Mr. Partee referred to the discussion at 
yesterday's meeting about the question of closing down the municipal 
bond departments of banks on Wednesdays. He said that he had subse-
Gently talked with representatives of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers. He 
W a s told that the Association had no authority to require a closing 
the municipal end of the business of brokers and dealers, that the 
Wednesday closings to date had simply reflected compliance with a 
r equest, and that the Association was going to send a wire today to 
its 
members reiterating that this was a voluntary action on the part 
the dealers. If that was correct, it would appear that many 
e r s might be open this Wednesday. The Commission seemed to feel 
deal 
th 
s u f f i c i e n t authority did exist to say that dealers could not 
their resources servicing municipal business while they were 
other transactions. It further appeared, according to the 
b e h i n d 
iuf 
formation he had received, that banks were distributing their awards 
n Wednesday whereas most dealers were not. This apparently was the 
PFi 
n cipal reason that banks were opposed to closing their municipal 
departments on Wednesdays. 

9 1 1 IT" 
'Ofc'rtD 
6/25/68 
-17-
Mr. Partee felt that it would be unwarranted interference with 
the operations of the municipal market to require a closing by banks, 
ar*d he felt that the Securities and Exchange Commission tended to agree. 
Mr. Holland said that the New York Reserve Bank had made sev-
eral calls to banks yesterday and had obtained information similar to 
that reported by Mr. Partee. The large banks apparently had no great 
backlog problem in the municipal end of their business, and no reason 
t o close their municipal bond departments to catch up on other trans-
itions. The only reason would be to achieve competitive equality 
w i t h the brokerage houses. It was the judgment of Governor Daane and 
A ccount Manager Holmes that on balance not enough would be gained to 
W a^rant the use of moral suasion to try to discourage the banks from 
active on Wednesdays. 
-
Chairman Martin indicated that he was satisfied with these 
MK-h} > 
r ePorts and said that he would discuss the matter further with Chair-
m a n Cohen of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
All staff members then withdrew except Mr. Holland. 
The Chairman reported that he had attended a meeting of the 
it 
HUadriad" W i t h the President the previous afternoon, at which the 
j , 
l S c ussion had dealt chiefly with the passage by Congress of the long-
s°
ught legislation increasing taxes and curtailing expenditures. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

6/25/68 
-18-
Secretary's Notes: Acting in the absence 
of Governor Sherrill, Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board the 
reemployment following maternity leave of 
Mary Teresa Atchison as Secretary, Divi-
sion of Bank Operations, with basic annual 
salary at the rate of $6,957, effective 
July 1, 1968, as recommended in a memo-
randum from that Division. 
On June 25, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the follow-
ing items, copies of which are attached 
under the respective numbers indicated: 
•^Lthe Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
^
e legram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
o r k approving the appointment of Richard F. 
oyer, j, Andrus Bryner, Cathy E. Jones, 
*
l o t t H. Jones, Arnold L. Lettieri, Jr., 
a i l d John B. Robinson, Jr., as assistant 
examiners. 
Jj
etter to Bank of Las Vegas, Las Vegas, 
vada, approving the establishment of a 
ranch in Boulder City. 
-^-the^Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
J^ter to Bank of Westbury Trust Company, 
Q f
s t b u r y , New Y o r k , granting an extension 
In tj
i m e w i t h i n which to establish a branch 
N
 
williston Park, Town of North Hempstead, 
N a s s * u County. 
Secretary 

2447 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
Item No. 1 
[I 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
6/25/68 
June 25, 1968 
New England Merchants Bank International, 
Prudential Center, 
^ Boston, Massachusetts. 02199 
w.*r , 
Gentlemen: 
• >. • 
• 
As requested in your letter of May 10, 1968, th 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to 
purchase and hold approximately 350 shares of Back Bay-
1 Orient Enterprises, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation, at 
a cost of approximately$175,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary. 

'W1 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
6/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 25, 1968. 
The Bank of New York International 
Corporation, 
48 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 8, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and 
hold approximately 400 shares of Back Bay-Orient Enterprises, 
*
n c*> a Massachusetts corporation, at a cost of approximately 
v200,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
, -t
 1 ' • ' 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
m 
-

•^LREStV 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 25, 1968. 
• ? v 
United California Bank 
International, 
61 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 8, 1968, the Board 
of Governors, grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and 
hold approximately 650 shares of Back Bay-Orient Enterprises, 
Inc., a Massachusetts corporation, at a cost of approximately 
$325,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
-V-: -
!V'
: A:, y 
r 
' 
1 
2419 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 3 
^ T H E 
6/25/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
«o 
Item No. 4 
6/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 2 , 1968 
Mr. Fred S. Broach, President, 
Broach Systems, 
94 Bergen Pike, 
Little Ferry, New Jersey. 
Dear Mr. Broach: 
In your telegram of June 19, 1968, you inquired about 
he Board's intent with respect to the use of equipment to 
S eparate silver and clad coins held by Federal Reserve Banks 
and proposed an arrangement for the use of your machines for a 
ee based on the number of bags processed. 
As you know, the contract with the Federal Reserve 
nk referred to in your telegram covered only an early stage 
°f development in which a commitment was made to purchase four 
machines from American Electronic Coin Processing, Inc., if the 
jjjaehines could conform to certain specifications within 30 days. 
e company failed to perform and was asked to remove the pro-
0 Vpes from the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia at the 
°f the test period in January. 
At that time other manufacturers came forward with 
^uipment, and demonstrations and tests were arranged when the 
spects appeared promising. Since American Electronic continued 
show interest and had made certain improvements in its equip-
> such equipment continued to receive consideration on a 
t w o
P e t i t i v e and speculative basis, along with the machines of 
°ther companies. However, field tests of two improved models 
cq ^
n e r i c a n Electronic machines in February and March failed to 
as
 
I n c e the System that this equipment would be as satisfactory 
u ,
t'
lat of the other companies for Federal Reserve use. We 
rstand you were informed of this conclusion in mid-May. 

Mr. Fred S. Broach 
-2-
: 
At a meeting on June 17 the Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks agreed upon the purchase of a small number of 
machines produced by another manufacturer to supplement equipment 
already owned by the Treasury Department. The final selection 
was based on the suitability of the equipment for the particular 
operations to be conducted at the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The proposal, contained in your telegram, that your 
company would be prepared to separate silver and clad coins 
using your equipment at any location or various locations for 
a fixed fee was received too late for consideration. In this 
connection, however, lease and contract arrangements suggested 
by other parties had previously been considered. A judgment 
was made that the purchase of equipment fully meeting the 
specification requirements was a more desirable arrangement for 
the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Very truly yours, 
i^l^c't.toV". » 
i X 
H ^ W L . . 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
it; 
Pi * •'. .
 ; • 

J 
5; 
w * 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 25 
6/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 1, 1968 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation, 
2 3 W a l l S t r e e t , 
Y o r k , New Y o r k . 
10015 
G e n t l e m e n : 
As requested in your letter of December 21, 1967, the 
oard of Governors grants consent for Morgan Guaranty International 
finance Corporation ("MGIFC") to purchase and hold 100 per cent of 
e capital stock of Morgan Guaranty Finance Limited C'MGFL"), Hamilton, 
^ermuda, at a cost of approximately US$4,000,000, provided such stock 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In this 
o f
n J J
e c t i o n , the Board also approves the purchase and holding of shares 
surpi^
 i n 
6 X C e S S 
o f 
1 0 
p e r 
c e n t 
o f 
y o u r Corporation's capital and 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
res of MGFL by MGIFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That MGIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in MGFL if MGFL at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
- <AS i 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 
stock, or if MGFL establishes any branch or agency or 
takes any action or undertakes any operation in Bermuda 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to MGIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, MGIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of MGFL as it may require from time to time; 
and, 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by MGFL be 
reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if MGFL were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of MGFL. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, and Morgan 
Guaranty International Banking Corporation, and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
The Board understands that Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
will guarantee payment of certain notes to be issued by MGFL, thus 
niaking them direct, primary claims on the Trust Company payable at its 
office in New York, and that the proceeds thereof will be used by 
foreign branches of the Trust Company in the ordinary course of its 
commercial banking business. In view of these facts, such notes would 
seem to be "issued by a member bank principally as a means of obtaining 
funds 
to be used in its banking business", within the meaning of 
sections 204.1(f) of Regulation D and 217.1(f) of Regulation Q. There-
fore, unless one of the exceptions specified in those sections is 
applicable, the Trust Company's liability on such notes would constitute 
deposits" subject to the requirements and restrictions of Regulations D 
and Q. 
On the other hand, the Board noted that Regulations D and Q 
Would not seem applicable if such notes were not so guaranteed and were 
not payable in the United States. Alternatively, such Regulations 
Would likewise not apply, as indicated above, if one of the exceptions 
^ said sections 204.1(f) and 217.1(f) were applicable; e.g., if the 
Trust Company's guaranty liability were expressly subordinated to claims 
°f its depositors and the original maturity of the notes exceeded two 
years. The Board's staff is, of course, available to discuss with 
officials of your organization any aspects of this matter on which 
further clarification may be desired. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

< > 4 5 4 
B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
6/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 25, 1968. 
Mr. Howard W. Nix, Jr., President, 
Commercial Associates, Inc., 
P. 0. Box 510, 
Pensacola, Florida. 
32502 
Dear Mr. Nix: 
The Board of Governors has granted the request 
contained in your letter dated June 6, 1968, that the 
application of Commercial Associates for permission to 
acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of the 
State Bank of Jacksonville, Jacksonville, Florida, be 
withdrawn. 
Notice of the Board's action on the request for 
withdrawal will be contained in the Board's June 22, 1968, 
H. 2 listing, in which actions on pending applications are 
noted. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

£455 
_ _ _ _ _ _ 
. ,, 
Item No. 7 
T E L E G R A M 
6 / 2 5 / 6 8 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
W «•«// U O 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
H p i 
June 25, 1968 
PIDERIT-NEW YORK 
Relet Timlen June 21, 1968, Acting Director, Division of Examinations, on 
v 
behalf Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves appointment 
°f Richard F. Boyer, J. Andrus Bryner, Cathy E. Jones, Elliott H. Jones, 
ArnoId L. Lettieri, Jr., and John B. Robinson, Jr., as assistant examiner! 
for Federal Reserve Bank New York, effective date of this wire. 
Cforr < 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
ttat 
you-
i.Jsff. fffctitw. 
to• r , \ 
\ •> - < , 
1 t•• v\« 
, 
v • ' " i-
iV v »: V'-v-
CARMICHAEL 

245C 
o 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
6/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 26, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Las Vegas, 
Las Vegas, Nevada. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the establishment of a branch by Bank of Las Vegas, Las Vegas, on 
Nevada Highway in the general vicinity of the 4 blocks between 
Cherry Street and Buchanan Boulevard, Boulder City, Nevada, pro-
vided the branch is established within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed branch 
will serve the convenience and needs of the community and that estab-
lishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable com-
petitive situation. The most recent examination of your bank by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco indicates considerable 
deterioration in your bank's capital position has occurred during 
the past year. The rapid growth of Bank of Las Vegas has resulted 
in a need for additional capital funds which you may contemplate 
Providing in connection with the proposed merger in which your bank 
s involved. However, should the merger not be consummated, it is 
®
u8gested that a careful study of capital needs should be made to 
etermine how much and by what means capital should be augmented. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2457 
67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K O F N E W 
Y O R K 
Item No. 9 
6/25/68 
NEW YORK. NEW YORK 10045 
R J U N 2 5 I % 8 
Mr. Charles J. Oberaayer 
Sxeeutive Vice President 
Bank of Westbury Trust Company 
Poet and Maple Avenues 
^•stbury, New York 
Dear Mr, Oberaayer: 
We refer to your letter of June 19, 1966 request-
lag an extension of tine within which your bank aay estab-
lish a branch at 29 Hillside Avenue, Incorporated Village 
rfilliston Park, Town of Worth Heapotead, Nassau County, 
?
v York, as approved on Deceaber 4, 1967 by the Director 
o r the Division oi Examinations acting, under delegated 
Authority, on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Fed-
eral Reserve System. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, the Federal 
"•serve Bank of New York, acting under delegated authority, 
^ P r o v e s your request and extends to October 4, 1968 the 
within which your bank aay establish a branch at the 
•bove location. 
b 
Je chall appreciate your advising us when the 
( < s f ^
Q c h 
astablished and opened for business, giving the 
V 1 ?«tiv. date of opening, the name, if any, by which it 
th
 
b € k n o v n *
 
a n d 
t h ® official postal address, including 
a t «ip code number. 
t 
Pleaee acknowledge receipt of this letter by sign-
^ 
and returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours. 
Robert C. Thoaan 
Assistant Vice President 
C l o s u r e 
^ t a t 
