FR 609 
Minutes for 
J u ly 1> 1 9 6 8 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is. not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Cha i rma n Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

a 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tem on Monday, July 1, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Plotkin, Porter, Sanders, and 
Shuter, and Miss Hart of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull and Cleaver of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Examinations 
Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

*-> y— 
/OO 
7/1/68 
-2-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Overseas 
1 
Investment Corporation, New York, New 
York, granting consent to the acquisi-
tion of shares of Systems S.A., Sao 
Paulo, Brazil. 
Letter to Bank of America National Trust 
2 
and Savings Association, San Francisco, 
California, granting consent to its 
acquisition of the stock of a new commer-
cial bank to be established in San Jose, 
Costa Rica. 
Let ter to the Presidents of all Federal 
3 
Reserve Banks relating to the quarterly 
reporting form to be used by registrants 
under Regulation G (Credit by Persons 
Other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for 
the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
Registered Equity Securities). 
Application by Chase Manhattan (Item No. 4). Pursuant to the 
understanding at the Board meeting on May 23, 1968, the views of the 
Department of Justice had been requested as to whether significant 
issues would be raised under the antitrust laws by the proposal of 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, an 
Edge Act subsidiary of The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
to acquire 50 per cent of an Irish banking subsidiary of the Bank of 
Ireland. The assistance of the Antitrust Division was also requested 

7/1/68 
-3-
in the formulation of general guidelines for use in determining which 
i 
particular types of joint international ventures should be referred 
by the Board to the Department in the future. 
A reply to the Board's inquiry had now been received, and in 
a memorandum dated June 26, 1968, the Division of Examinations pointed 
out that the Justice Department had not come to any firm conclusion on 
the competitive consequences of the proposed transaction on the basis 
of information available. However, the Department had suggested that 
the Board, in reaching its conclusion, consider whether the joint ven-
ture would significantly restrict the alternative sources of financing 
available to American businesses by eliminating Chase Manhattan as a 
potential de novo entrant into the foreign market in question, and 
whether the joint venture would significantly restrict the availability 
of correspondent banking alternatives for other American banks offering 
international banking services through such correspondent banks. The 
Department also suggested that it might be useful for the Board to 
require applicants to provide more detailed information relating to 
competitive issues in foreign markets, but it deferred consideration 
of possible general guidelines as to types of joint ventures abroad 
likely to raise significant anticompetitive issues. 
The memorandum from the Division of Examinations summarized 
information available from published sources on the banking structure 
in Ireland and analyzed the current proposal in light of the questions 

7/1/68 
-4-
raised by the Department of Justice. On the basis of that analysis 
the Division concluded that the existing information was sufficient 
to make a decision on the application. It recommended that the appli-
cation be approved on the ground that the proposed venture would not 
result in a substantial lessening of existing or potential competition. 
The Legal Division raised the question of requesting additional 
information from the applicant before reaching a decision, in line with 
the suggestion of the Justice Department. However, Mr. Shay said he 
doubted that an antitrust violation would be found to be involved. Nor 
did he believe that the Justice Department would be too concerned if 
the Board took action on the basis of the information presently avail-
able . 
In response to Governor Mitchell's question about the applica-
bility of antitrust laws to conditions of competition in a foreign 
country, Mr. Shay said that the Sherman Act had been specifically 
interpreted and applied in cases involving U.S. foreign commerce. He 
was not aware of any specific cases under the Clayton Act. However, 
in view of the Board's responsibility under section 7 of the Clayton 
Act, it seemed to him the record should make clear that the Board had 
considered the possible antitrust implications of cases coming before 
it, particularly as they involved the financing of American businesses. 
Governor Maisel referred to the March 1968 statement of policy 
regarding joint ventures in foreign banking and financial activities. 

7/1/68 
-5-
The pending case, he said, afforded a clear illustration of the kinds 
of issues that could arise. He suggested that a proper strategy might 
be to write down the kinds of information thought to be needed and 
discuss the matter with the three largest American banks to show that 
the Board had an interest in this area, and the type of interest. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that at the time the Board was con-
sidering the March policy statement he expressed his concern about an 
extension of the framework of the antitrust laws to foreign banking 
structures. He did not feel that there were sufficient grounds for 
doing so, except where two or more American banks were involved in a 
joint venture. He also had opposed requesting the views of the Depart-
ment of Justice on the Chase Manhattan application, and had favored 
approving the application on the basis of information then available. 
While the information had not been greatly expanded, he did not see 
how the Board could obtain from the foreign partners in this venture 
the additional information suggested by the Department. Further 
delay through discussion with the applicant or with other banks would 
not be justified, and the case should be disposed of, favorably, on 
the basis of the information now before the Board. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that even if antitrust 
aspects of cases of this kind had not been considered by the Board 
previously, they should be now. He did not find the Justice Depart-
ment's letter too helpful, and he agreed that the information suggested 

/ O O i 
7/1/68 
-6-
would be difficult to obtain. He was bothered by the fact that Chase 
Manhattan would enter the Irish banking market through acquiring con-
trol of a bank that controlled 40 per cent of the commercial banking 
business in Ireland. However, in view of the inconclusiveness of the 
Justice Department's approach, he would approve the application. 
Chairman Martin stated that he would approve the application. 
Action should be taken promptly one way or another, particularly in 
view of the length of time the application had been pending. 
The application of Chase Manhattan to acquire 50 per cent of 
the stock of National City Bank Limited, Dublin, Ireland, was then 
approved unanimously. A copy of the letter to Chase Manhattan granting 
consent to the proposed acquisition is attached as Item No. 4. 
Following further discussion, it was understood that the staff 
would continue to work on the development, for the Board's considera-
tion, of general guidelines as to what types of joint ventures abroad 
were likely to raise significant anticompetitive issues. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of The First 
National Bank of Okeana, Okeana, Ohio, by The Citizens Bank, Hamilton, 
Ohio, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The 
conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 

o r i t" 
7/1/68 
-7-
Repurchase agreements (Item No. 5). Pursuant to the under-
standing at the meeting on June 25, 1968, there had been distributed 
a draft of amendment to Regulation D (Reserves of Member Banks) and 
Regulation Q (Payment of Interest on Deposits) that would limit the 
scope of the repurchase agreement exemption from deposits for the 
purposes of rules governing member bank reserves and payment of inter-
est on deposits. 
The proposed amendment would reduce the scope of the exemption 
of repurchase agreements to certain alternative categories; namely, 
(1) securities, (2) obligations that are eligible for purchase by a 
Federal Reserve Bank and obligations of a State or political sub-
division thereof, (3) obligations that are eligible for purchase by 
a Fede ral Reserve Bank, (4) obligations that are direct obligations 
of the United States or any agency thereof or that are fully guaranteed 
as to principal and interest by the United States or any agency thereof, 
or (5) obligations that are direct obligations of the United States. In 
addition, the amendment would preclude application of the exemption to 
indebtedness arising from a pro rata interest in such securities or 
obligations. 
Mr. Sanders expressed the view that the Board would be justi-
fied in adopting such an amendment without public participation. He 
suggested, however, that the Board might want to seek the views of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York since it was understood that the Bank's 
staff, including the Trading Desk, had been considering the matter. 

i - G O J L 
7/1/68 
-8-
Members of the Board then commented on the extent to which 
they believed the scope of the repurchase agreement exemption should 
be limited, and there appeared to be a consensus that the scope should 
be reduced to exempt only repurchase agreements on obligations eligible 
for purchase by a Federal Reserve Bank. Governor Maisel expressed a 
preference for exempting repurchase agreements on municipal obligations 
as well. 
Governor Mitchell opposed any tightening of the present exemp-
tion. He expressed the view that a far more fundamental issue was 
involved than the question of circumvention of reserve requirements. 
The situation seemed to him to represent a probing by banks for an 
opportunity to diversify their liability structures, and that was 
important to accomplish. Limiting the scope of the exemption was, 
in his view, a policy move in the wrong direction, and the Board 
should explore the implications further. 
The sending of a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York in the form attached as Item No. 5 was then agreed upon, in order 
to obtain the Bank's views on the alternatives before action was taken 
by the Board. 
Payment of interest (Item No. 6). The Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco had requested the Board's views on whether computing the 
Payment of interest on a 360-day year basis, as opposed to a 365-day 
year basis, was permissible under Regulation Q (Payment of Interest on 

( 
7/1/68 
-9-
Deposits). If the 360-day basis were used, the annual yield on a time 
deposit bearing interest at 5 per cent and compounded quarterly would 
be 5.166 per cent. Pursuant to the understanding at the Board meeting 
on January 31, 1968, the matter was referred to the Coordinating Com-
mittee on Bank Regulation. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated June 26, 
1968, from the Legal Division submitting the conclusion of the inter-
agency staff group that explored the question. It was the recommenda-
tion of the staff group (in which recommendation the Coordinating 
Committee concurred) that the Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation adopt interpretations of their respective regulations 
governing payment of interest on deposits to the effect that (1) com-
puting interest on the basis that 360 days equals one year constitutes 
a violation of such regulations, (2) such violation may be regarded 
as de minimis except when it is used by a bank for purposes other than 
mathematical convenience, and (3) an insured bank should not advertise 
an effective annual rate of interest on "5 per cent maximum" deposits 
m excess of 5.13 per cent, the rate that results from computing 
interest at the maximum permissible simple interest rate on such 
deposit, compounded continuously for 365 days. Attached to the memo-
randum was a draft of interpretation that would implement this recom-
mendation. 
Following discussion, the issuance of the interpretation was 
-S£EEoved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 6. 

f^*-" A r 
^ o l o 
7/1/68 
-10-
Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending (Item No. 7). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated June 28, 1968, from the Task 
Force on Truth in Lending proposing certain criteria for selection of 
members of the Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending, the formation 
of which had received consideration most recently at the Board meeting 
on June 26. 
Chairman Martin suggested that Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and 
Brimmer serve as a committee of the Board to give further consideration 
to the make-up of the Advisory Committee and present recommendations 
to the Board, and there was agreement with this suggestion. 
Governor Robertson then proposed, with respect to the screen-
ing of possible members of the Committee, that the preliminary list 
of names be broken down by district and sent to the Federal Reserve 
Banks for checking to assure that the members eventually selected 
would be persons of good standing. He also said that he envisaged the 
Committee as serving not in a technical but in a truly advisory capac-
ity, subject to call when needed. He would prefer that the members be 
appointed for terms of one year so that there would be an opportunity 
to make changes as developments might dictate. He agreed with the 
suggestion made earlier by Governor Mitchell that the Board should 
designate the chairman of the Committee from among the Committee's 
membership. 
,'t j ; • ' - • • • • 
Governor Brimmer said that if the Board decided to appoint the 
chairman from among the Committee members he would recommend that 

7/1/68 
-11-
Dr. Richard H. Holton, Dean of the Graduate School of Business Admin-
istration at the University of California, Berkeley, be considered. 
Dr. Holton's name was included among several others suggested by 
Governor Brimmer in a memorandum to Mr. Solomon dated July 1, 1968. 
(Copies of the memorandum were distributed at the meeting.) 
After further discussion, unanimous approval was given to the 
sending of a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks for the purpose of 
screening possible candidates for the Advisory Committee. A copy of 
the letter subsequently sent is attached as Item No. 7. 
Messrs. Bopp and Scanlon, Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Philadelphia and Chicago, entered the room at this point and 
several members of the Board's staff withdrew. 
French swap line. Chairman Martin noted that the French had 
now reportedly sustained reserve losses of about $1.8 billion since 
the civil disturbances in May and said that they had expressed interest 
in increasing the Bank of France's swap agreement with the Federal 
Reserve System from $100 million to $700 million. The French also 
expected to sell another $300 million of gold, half to the United 
States. 
Governor Brimmer asked for a breakdown of the means by which 
the French were understood to have met their total reserve losses to 
date, and such a breakdown was provided by Mr. Solomon. Included were 
sales of gold amounting to more than $450 million and a drawing of $100 
million against the Federal Reserve swap line. 

7/1/68 
-12-
Th e Chairman commented that he thought a cooperative attitude 
was appropriate at this juncture; among other things it might encourage 
the adoption of a more reasonable policy position on international 
monetary matters on the part of the French. He suggested that the 
Secretary of the Open Market Committee be requested to poll the members 
of the Committee with regard to the proposal to increase the swap line 
to $700 million. 
Mr. Holland inquired as to the views of the members of the 
Committee who were present today, and Governor Mitchell indicated that 
he would like to have additional information before taking a position, 
particularly as to whether the French were being encouraged to set up 
swap lines with the Bank for International Settlements and their 
European counterparts. In general, he felt that an increase in the 
Federal Reserve swap line would be appropriate, but his question was 
whether that line should be increased unless other swap facilities 
were also being explored. 
Mr. Solomon said that, as he understood it, the suggestion was 
that the French should arrange some credit lines with other European 
countries to go along with an increase in the Federal Reserve swap line. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the last time the Federal Reserve 
swap lines were increased generally the French chose not to go along, 
but there was no prohibition against their coming in if they had wanted 
to- 
He felt that a willingness should be indicated to purchase larger 

* ^ •— O 
7/1/68 
-13-
amounts of gold than the French were prepared to offer at this time if 
the French wanted to come forward with them. But he would not insist 
that the French sell larger amounts of gold before the swap line was 
expanded. 
Governor Maisel commented that if the money was all going to 
flow through to Germany or Switzerland, the Federal Reserve might have 
to draw on its swap lines with the central banks of those countries. 
Governor Daane entered the room at this point. 
The Chairman related to Governor Daane the subject of the dis-
cussion, and the latter said that the proposed increase in the swap 
line seemed to him to be a good move. 
Chairman Martin then suggested that Mr. Reynolds prepare a 
memorandum on the points that had been raised by Governors Mitchell 
and Maisel, and he suggested that Mr. Holland poll the members of the 
Ope n Market Committee after such information had been pulled together. 
He added that the only concern at the moment was with obtaining an 
informal reaction as to whether the Committee would be agreeable to 
increasing the swap line to $700 million. It would be assumed that 
the United States would buy the gold being offered by the French, but 
that would enter into the decision only indirectly. He also said that 
he understood the French would not want to arrange a maturity for the 
increased swap line of longer than six months. 
Sterling balances credit package. Mr. Solomon distributed a 
revised draft of a paper entitled "Proposal for U.S. Participation in 

<ry t y 
7/1/68 
-14-
Sterling Balances Credit Package." This draft was dated June 28, 1968, 
and read as follows: 
It is proposed that the Treasury, through the ESF, 
participate as principal in the arrangement with the BIS. 
That is, the Treasury would undertake a commitment to make 
3-month renewable dollar/sterling swaps with the BIS for 
the U.S. share (approximately $600 million). As outlined 
in the BIS plan, such swaps could be drawn upon by the 
BIS--to finance draw-downs of sterling balances—during a 
three-year period and, after a two-year grace period, 
would be repayable during a five-year period ending 10 
years after the initiation of the scheme. 
When and to the extent that the swap was drawn upon 
by the BIS, the dollars would be made available by the ESF. 
If the resources of the ESF are insufficient to meet these 
and other commitments, the Federal Reserve would be pre-
pared to warehouse for the ESF necessary portions of the 
sterling it acquires as a result of the swap with the BIS. 
In view of the principle that the Federal Reserve 
should confine its foreign operations to short-term matu-
rities, the Treasury will provide assurance to the Federal 
Reserve of its readiness, upon request, to take back the 
warehoused sterling within a reasonably short period. In 
any event, the Treasury will stand ready, upon three months 
prior notice, to reacquire each warehoused drawing at any 
time beginning one year from the date of warehousing. 
Mr. Solomon noted the minor changes that had been made in the 
language of the proposal since the Board's discussion last Friday. He 
said that he had reviewed the proposal with Presidents Bopp and 
Scanlon. 
Chairman Martin pointed out that Governor Robertson, when he 
attended the meeting of the Bank for International Settlements in 
Basle next week, should have some indication of magnitudes that would 
b e agreeable. In the Chairman's view, U.S. participation in the credit 

7/1/68 
-15-
package should not go higher than about $600 million, although that 
would have to be adjusted somewhat if other countries chose not to 
participate. 
Mr. Solomon observed that if the French did not participate 
the U.S. share would be closer to $700 million. 
Governor Daane said there had been indications that some of 
the Common Market people would like the U.S. share to be as high as 
$1 bill ion. In his view, however, the U.S. share should be kept in 
the general range of $600 million, although he would be willing to go 
to $700 million if the French did not participate. 
Mr. Solomon suggested that a more specific question related 
to the limitation that would be placed on the amount of warehoused 
sterling acquired by the Federal Reserve from the Exchange Stabiliza-
tion Fund, and Governor Brimmer said he had sensed last Friday a 
willingness to increase the authorization as much as $700 million. He 
would stand by that, but he would resist giving an open-ended commit-
ment. Chairman Martin said he thought such a position was quite 
reasonable, and Governor Daane agreed. 
Governor Mitchell, who had not been present last Friday, noted 
that it was his understanding that the Exchange Stabilization Fund did 
not have the funds necessary to meet a commitment by the Treasury 
incident to U.S. participation in the proposed sterling balances credit 
package, and that the Federal Reserve in effect would be financing the 
Treasury. He asked whether there was any legal issue involved. 

tJO&Jt 
7/1/68 
-16-
In reply Mr. Hackley reviewed the points he had covered orally 
last Friday. As a technical matter, the acquisition of the warehoused 
sterling would be an open market purchase. There was no limit on the 
maturity of open market purchases or the period for which the obliga-
tions purchased could be held. In that sense there would be no legal 
obj ection. However, despite the form of the transaction, it would 
actually represent a financing of the Treasury by the Federal Reserve 
because the Exchange Stabilization Fund lacked sufficient resources. 
It could also be regarded as indirect Federal Reserve financing of a 
foreign central bank, which the law did not expressly authorize. The 
Federal Open Market Committee would have to increase its authorization 
for acquisition of warehoused sterling, and that action would in due 
course be made public. 
Governor Maisel observed that a policy decision was involved 
and said he would like to have the staff draw up a paper describing 
possible alternatives, that is, different methods of doing essentially 
the same thing. The memorandum could explain the legal obligations, 
rights, and duties involved. 
Chairman Martin then said that he and Governor Robertson, along 
with Treasury officials, would probably meet with the President this 
afternoon. Further steps would not be contemplated unless the Presi-
n t 8ave his comple te endorsement. In view of the forthcoming changes 
at the Treasury incident to the coming into office of a new Administration, 

«> frr *cr 
7/1/68 
-17-
it was important that there be a complete understanding and for the 
President to agree. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that it would be helpful for the 
Ope n Market Committee to have from its General Counsel a spelling out 
in writing of the interpretation he had just given orally. With Gov-
ernor Robertson going to Basle, a more extensive document such as 
mentioned by Governor Maisel could hardly be prepared in time. 
Chairman Martin commented that everyone should understand the 
nature of the problem, which was complicated by the time factor. 
Governor Robertson was going to have to negotiate at Basle with repre-
sentatives of other countries that would participate in the credit 
package. There would be a meeting of the Open Market Committee on 
July 16, at which time there could be a formal ratification of whatever 
had been negotiated. This was not a satisfactory way of doing business, 
but nevertheless it was required by the emergency situation. 
Governor Robertson then commented that, although the cause was 
a w o r thy one, he was bothered by certain questions. He felt that the 
Treasury ought to be obliged to arrange for the financing of U.S. 
participation in the credit package within a reasonable time. The 
Treasury could not possibly accomplish that now and the Federal 
Reserve--as a lender of last resort, so to speak--should take care of 
the Treasury's needs temporarily. But the Federal Reserve should not 
agree in advance, whether on the basis of a formal commitment or other 

r A 0-y 
7/1/68 
-18-
understanding, to finance this operation for ten years. The Federal 
Reserve should make sure that there was no understanding other than 
that this was a temporary arrangement to enable the Treasury to enter 
into the international agreement and tide the Treasury over until such 
time as it could arrange its own financing. 
Further, Governor Robertson said, the Federal Reserve should 
retain the right to act in its own discretion. Under the proposal as 
drafted, it would have the right to give the Treasury three-month 
notice, after one year, and have the Treasury acquire warehoused ster-
ling, but the Treasury could turn the sterling back the next day. 
This problem might be taken care of by amending the proposal, which 
should be a signed agreement between the Treasury and the Federal 
Reserve, to say that the Federal Reserve would consider warehousing 
sterling temporarily. It should be made clear in discussions with 
the Treasury, and even with the President, that this was not the kind 
o r operation in which the Federal Reserve should ordinarily be engaging. 
His other question, Governor Robertson said, was whether it 
would be desirable to have some discussion with the Chairmen of Congres-
sional Committees. 
Governor Daane expressed the view, with regard to Governor 
Robertson's suggested change in the language of the proposal, that the 
Treasury's immediate position would be seriously weakened if the pro-
posal stated only that the Federal Reserve would consider warehousing 

< 
7/1/68 
-19-
sterling temporarily. He recognized the problem of leapfrogging, but 
he felt that the suggested language would not offer enough positive 
assurance to the Treasury. 
Governor Robertson said that he would not want to hedge and 
sound as though the Federal Reserve would not go through with the 
agreement. But the System should not be bound to accept again for 
warehousing the same sterling reacquired by the Treasury. 
Governor Brimmer said he was inclined to share Governor 
Robertson's sentiments. The real issue was that the Treasury should 
understand that the Federal Reserve expected the Treasury to put itself 
in a position to take the System out of this commitment completely 
within a reasonable time. The Federal Reserve should not commit itself 
to roll any borrowings over continually. 
Governor Brimmer then inquired whether it would not be desir-
able, in discussion with the President, to have it understood that the 
Treasury and the Federal Reserve would talk with the Chairmen of the 
Banking and Currency Committees. 
Governor Maisel suggested that it should be clear in the dis-
cussion with the President that a decision had been made on this matter, 
but there should not be an insistence that the President go to the 
Congress. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether it was conceivable that the 
sterling balances credit package might never be used by the British, 

/ jjr-
/ O O a y 
7/1/68 
-20-
and Governor Daane said the British had made clear that they would 
expect to use $400 million immediately out of the total $2 billion. 
Over the period of the agreement the whole line was likely to be used. 
Governor Mitchell then inquired about the feasibility of saying 
to the Treasury simply that it should take back any warehoused sterling 
within a year from its acquisition. Governor Brimmer expressed the 
view that the word "reacquire" meant that the Treasury would take back 
the sterling and keep it, and Governor Daane said that he thought the 
language in the draft was about as tight as could reasonably be 
achieved. Governor Robertson suggested that it be made clear to the 
Treasury that roll-overs of warehoused sterling were not intended. 
Governor Brimmer clarified his thinking by saying that if the 
Treasury sold sterling to the Federal Reserve under this arrangement, 
it should be clearly understood that after the stated period the Fed-
eral Reserve could require the Treasury to take back the sterling and 
keep it. That agreement should be firm. He would not want to leave 
°pen the possibility of rolling over the sterling, so that the Federal 
Reserve would wind up financing the operation for a long period of 
time. 
Chai rman Martin then commented that he would question the 
advisability of going to the Congressional Committees at this stage, 
and Governor Daane said he would be willing to leave that question to 
t h e judgnent of the Chairman and the Secretary of the Treasury. 

Z5Z3 
7/1/68 
-21-
Governor Brimmer said his concern focused on what the Federal Reserve 
would be doing in the long run. If it was entering into a long-term 
commitment, that would be a different matter than if it was going into 
only a short-term commitment. 
After further discussion Governor Robertson expressed the view 
that perhaps the proposal as drafted was adequate if there was an 
understanding that the warehoused sterling would not be rolled over. 
The Federal Reserve might choose not to give notice to the Treasury 
in a given situation, and much had to depend on good will between the 
Treasury and the Federal Reserve. 
Chairman Martin noted that it was important that the basic 
agreement be in writing. It was not feasible simply to have an under-
standing, because it must be assumed that the top Treasury officials 
would be leaving with the advent of the new Administration. 
Governor Mitchell observed that no group could bind its 
successors. However, the Federal Reserve, as presently constituted, 
could specify the maximum amount of warehousing it would do. The 
Federal Reserve could change its mind later on if it so desired. 
Therefore, he saw nothing wrong with simply a one-year arrangement at 
this juncture. 
Governor Maisel noted, however, that that might make it 
impossible for the Treasury to enter into a commitment on behalf of 
the United States. The Treasury might have to decide to call the 
whole thing off. 

*->•"•«> f V 
/ O O O U 
7/1/68 
-22-
Chairman Martin then commented that this was probably all the 
Board could do at the moment. He had a sense of the meeting, and he 
and Governor Robertson would continue to negotiate. He emphasized the 
importance of the decision to the Federal Reserve and noted that it 
was being made against the background of a very difficult and serious 
situation. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the Board members were being 
asked to vote at this time, adding that if the agreement was as impre-
cise as it seemed, he would want to be recorded as voting against it. 
Governor Maisel said he understood that the only action being taken 
was to authorize the Chairman and Vice Chairman to negotiate further 
with the Treasury and enter into discussion with the President on that 
basis. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that an effort might be made 
to add to the language of the last paragraph of the proposal words to 
the effect that "any further extension of the warehousing of such 
sterling shall be at the discretion of the Federal Reserve." Governor 
Brimmer said he would find the proposal acceptable if it were so 
amended. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Acting in the absence of 
Governor Sherrill, Governor Robertson today 
approved on behalf of the Board memoranda 
recommending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 

2531 
7/1/68 
-23-
Foreig;n travel authorization 
John F. L. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International Finance, 
to travel to Paris during the period July 23-27, 1968, to attend, in 
place of Robert Solomon, a meeting of the Economic Policy Committee 
of the OECD on July 24-25 and a meeting of Working Party 3 on July 26, 
with reimbursement on an actual expense basis. 
Appointment 
Dorothy Sue Swanson as Editorial Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,565, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Maternity leave 
Diane E. Waiters, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, beginning the close of business July 5, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Faye P. Newton, Stenographer, Division of Personnel Administration, 
effective the close of business July 1, 1968. 
Rosa Rowles, Stenographer, Division of Personnel Administration, 
effective the close of business July 1, 1968. 
On July 1, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 
iiZ__the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
8 
approving the appointment of Theresa M. Smiles 
a s examiner and Mary DeStefano as assistant 
examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
9 
approving the appointment of Andrew John Popello 
a s assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
10 
approving the appointment of Ivan E. Johnson as 
assistant examiner. 

7/1/68 
-24-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Union Bank and Trust Company of 
Greensburg, Greensburg, Indiana, waiving the 
requirement of six months' notice of with-
drawal from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 
Item No. 
11 

2533 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/1/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 1, 1968. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
i • 399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of June 7, 1968, the Board of Governors grants con-
sent for your Corporation to acquire about 10 per cent of 
the capital stock of Systems S.A., Sao Paulo, Brazil, at a 
cost of approximately $55,000, provided the shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be made 
within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your Corporation, First 
National City Bank, International Banking Corporation, and 
First National City Bank (International), and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2531 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
7/1/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 1, 1968. 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 22, 1968, the Board of Gov-
ernors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act and Regulation M, for Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association ("B of A"), San Francisco, California, to purchase and hold 
up to 100 per cent of the outstanding stock of a new commercial bank to 
he established in San Jose, Costa Rica ("Costa Rican Bank"), at a cost 
°f approximately US$750,000, provided such shares are acquired within 
°ne year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of Costa Rican Bank by B of A is granted subject to the applicable 
Provisions of Section 25 and Regulation M and the condition that B of A 
shall not hold any shares of stock in Costa Rican Bank if Costa Rican Bank 
at any time fails to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
national bank or to a foreign branch of a national bank under the provi-
sions of Regulation M. 
< 
Regulation M provides that, when required by the Board of Gov-
ernors, B of A will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Costa Rican Bank as it may require from time to time. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans and in-
vestments of Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, Bank 
° America, New York, and Bamerical International Financial Corporation, 
will not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guide-
l n e s established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

£ 5 3 5 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7 / 1 / 6 8 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
fc 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July g> 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
Federal Reserve Form G-4, the quarterly report due 
from registrants under the Board's Regulation G ("Credit by 
Persons Other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for Purpose of 
Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities") pursuant 
to section 207.3(a) of the regulation, has been approved by 
the Board. It is anticipated that a supply will be sent your 
Bank during the week of July 15, for mailing to persons who 
have registered with your Bank under the regulation. 
Reports on Form G-4 would normally be required to be 
filed within thirty days after the close of the calendar quarter 
covered by the report. However, in view of the fact that regis-
trants will not be familiar with the form, and that filled-in 
forms must be filed by each registrant in respect to both the 
first and the second calendar quarters of 1968, no objection 
will be made if such forms are received by September 1, 1968, 
and your Bank may wish so to advise registrants, in mailing 
copies of the forms to them. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
TO tttE PRfcSIfcENtS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

•7 K *4 fZ 
iiSfe;,:. 
B O A R D O F • D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
7/1/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 1, 1968. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
March 11, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corpo-
ration ("CMOBC") to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, up to 
50 per cent of the stock of National City Bank Limited ("NCBL"), 
Dublin, Ireland, at a cost of approximately $3,000,000, provided that 
approximately $2,500,000 is so invested within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of NCBL by CMOBC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in NCBL if NCBL at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if NCBL establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Ireland or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of NCBL as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by NCBL 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if NCBL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as it 
relates to restrictions on loans granted by NCBL in Ireland in the 
currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation and The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association) 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
O '-'"n 
/OOiid 
Item No. 5 
7/1/68 
A D O R E B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 5, 1968. 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10017 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
Enclosed is a draft amendment (with alternatives indicated by 
bracketed provisions) to section 204.1(f) of Regulation D and section 217.1(f) 
of Regulation Q that is designed to limit the scope of the repurchase 
agreement exemption from the category of deposits, for the purposes of 
rules governing member bank reserves and payment of interest on deposits. 
The desirability of such an amendment became apparent in the 
Board's recent consideration of a plan of First Wisconsin National Bank 
°f Milwaukee to sell participations in a pool of its mortgage loans pur-
suant to an agreement which would obligate the bank to repurchase the 
Participations. 
The enclosed draft reflects the following conclusions of the 
Board: 
(1) The scope of the RP exemption, which presently applies 
to liabilities arising from a transfer of "any assets" 
under repurchase agreement, should at least be re-
duced to exempt only RP's on "securities". 
(2) The scope of the exemption should not be so reduced 
as to include as deposits a liability on an RP in-
volving obligations that are eligible for purchase 
by Reserve Banks. 
(3) An indebtedness on an RP under which the "purchaser" 
of the securities obtains only a pro rata interest 
in a pool of securities should be included as deposits, 
irrespective of the type of securities involved. 
* 
(4) Only RP's evidenced by a writing should be exempt. 
In the course of the discussion that led to these conclusions, 
h e Board noted that adoption of an amendment based thereon would bring 

r» 
/O 
Mr. Alfred Hayes 
-2-
within the scope of deposits for the purpose of Regulation D a liability 
of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company to the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency in-
volving the sale under repurchase agreement of participations in a pool of 
loans. If such liability were to a foreign bank, it would be exempt from 
Regulation D under the first exemption of section 204.1(f). 
The Board considers that the exemption from classification as 
deposits under Regulation D of an indebtedness on a promissory note or 
similar instrument issued by a member bank to another bank, including a 
foreign central bank, may be appropriately extended in the national 
interest to include indebtedness on such an instrument issued to any 
organization whose time deposits are currently exempt from Regulation Q 
ceilings under the provisions of section 217.3(a) thereof. It is believed 
that such extension would better enable domestic banks to offer comparable 
rates of interest to all foreign official depositors, including monetary 
agencies that in some countries perform functions that are performed by 
central banks in other countries. 
The Board would appreciate receiving, at the earliest convenient 
time, your comments on the appropriate scope of the RP exemption and on 
the contemplated expansion of the inter-bank liability exemption. It is 
understood that members of your staff have already given some considera-
tion to the matter of the RP exemption. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure 

2540 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 6 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/1/68 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217 - PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Computation of Interest 
'1,1; . 
§ 217.145 Payment of interest on basis that 360 days equals one year. 
(a) The question has arisen whether a member bank may pay interest 
°n one-year deposits on the basis that 360 days entitles a depositor to a 
full year's interest and add interest at the maximum permissible rate on the 
type of deposit in question for the remaining days (five or six) of the cal-
endar year. Under such a practice, the depositor would, in effect, receive 
370 days of interest on the deposit in one year. 
(b) The Board of Governors considers that practices of this type 
violate Regulation Q. Such regulation does not authorize a bank to use 
ii 
grace periods" in computing interest on time deposits at the maximum per-
mi-ssible rate. In other words, the terms of Regulation Q are not designed 
t o Permit a bank to pay interest at the maximum rate for more days than funds 
a r e on deposit. 
(c) Nevertheless, the Board of Governors has concluded that no 
useful purpose would be served by preventing banks from computing interest, 
a s a matter of mathematical simplicity, on the basis that 30 days equals one 
m°nth or one-twelfth of a year, 90 days equals three months or one-quarter 
o f a year, 180 days equals six months or one-half of a year, or even that 
360 days equals one year. Although it is recognized that a bank which com-
putes interest on such a basis will be paying interest at an effective annual 

2541 
- 2 -
r a t e o f interest slightly in excess of the applicable maximum simple interest 
rate compounded continuously for the number of days the funds are on deposit, 
the Board will disregard this insignificant violation of its regulation. 
(d) However, a bank that does compute interest on the basis of 360 
d a y s ecluals one year, or the like, may not add any interest computed on a 
daily basis. The mathematical simplicity argument supporting disregard of 
violation that arises from the 360-days-equals-one-year basis falls with 
aspect to such a bank. 
(e) The Board also considers that it would be inappropriate for a 
ar*k to advertise an effective annual rate of interest on deposits in excess 
o f the rate that results from computing interest at the maximum permissible 
simple interest rate on the type of deposit involved, compounded continu-
U S l y 
a full year. This means, for example, that a member bank may not 
advertise an effective annual rate of interest in excess of 5.13 per cent on 
a 5 n 
Per cent multiple maturity time deposit. 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i). Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 371b.) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 1st day of July, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

o *—< '1 « % 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
7/1/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 2, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
A preliminary screening of possible candidates for the 
Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending has been made. Before making 
a final selection from among them, it would be desirable to have the 
candidates checked to be sure that there is no derogatory informa-
tion associated with them which should prevent their appointment. 
There are enclosed brief biographical sketches for those 
candidates living in your District, and the Board would like to 
have a discreet inquiry conducted without contacting the individuals, 
to make sure there is nothing in their backgrounds that might embarrass 
the System should they be appointed to the Advisory Committee. Such 
an Inquiry should probably include a credit report, obtained through 
the local credit bureau. Such a report would probably be more suit-
able for our present purposes than a Dun & Bradstreet type of credit 
report. 
A check with the local police department would also be 
desirable. The Board would not need complete information that might 
he available, but only any derogatory information that might militate 
against appointment. 
Since the Board wishes to proceed rapidly with the 
appointmant of the Advisory Committee, it will be appreciated if 
you would advise the Board by wire as soon as possible if any 
derogatory information concerning these candidates is discovered. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

2543 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 8 
7/1/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 2, 1968 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
°f June 27, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
°n behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointments of Mrs. Theresa M. Smiles as an examiner 
and Mrs. Mary DeStefano as an assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. Please advise the effective dates of the 
appointments. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2544 
;•-; ; . 
' ' ' Y ; 
t ^ S 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7 / 1 / 6 8 
2*. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 2, 1968. 
Mr. Harry W. Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
• • 
r 
r 
i 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of June 26, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Andrew John 
Popello as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

QOfCOw'.. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
«t~>. p— /j 
Item No. 10 
7/1/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 2, 1968 
^.^"'•fci'* 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
; Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of June 27, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
°f Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Ivan E. 
Johnson as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f Richmond, effective the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Aw 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2 JO SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
Item No. 11 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60W0 
7/1/68 
(J 12) HA 7-2)20 
July 1, 1968 
*"546 
Lorei* C. Gorton, President 
union Bank and Trust Company of Greensburg 
kreensburg, Indiana br(2k0 
^ar Mr. Sefton: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
x i+vJ0ri"ty> 
Banlc waives the requirement of six months' notice of 
Withdrawal from the Federal Reserve System. Under the provisions of 
section 208.10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your institution may 
accomplish termination of its membership at any time within eight months 
am the date that notice of intention to withdraw from membership was 
^ven. Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago of the 
^cacral Reserve stock issued to your institution, 3uch stock will be 
ancelled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership bo 
turned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
rk 
Cc - Board of Governors 
COPY 
