Minutes for August 31, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minut es in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial bel ow. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the tninutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3 9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 31, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Noble and Sanders, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Mr. Shull, Chief, Banking Markets Section, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mess rs. Greenspun and King, Economists, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Kline, and Maguire, Review 
Examiners, Division of Examinations 
Miss Greene, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Wusterbarth, Summer Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
1
tem numbers indicated. 

84 4 O 
8/31/67 
-2-
Item No, 
1 
2-3 
4 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal of a report to the Comptroller of the Currency on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The First 
National Bank of Bloomsburg, Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania, into The First 
National Bank of Wilkes-Barre, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. The con-
clusion read as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition existing 
between The First National Bank of Wilkes-Barre and 
The First National Bank of Bloomsburg, although there 
is some potential for competition between them. Over-
all, the effect of the proposal on competition would 
be slightly adverse. 
Unanimous approval also was given to the transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of The Peoples Bank & Savings Company, 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, approving an 
amendment to that corporation's articles of 
association. 
Letter to the Chairman of the Senate Committee 
on the Judiciary regarding S. 2049, a bill to 
prohibit the investment of income derived from 
certain criminal activities in any business 
enterprise affecting interstate or foreign com-
merce; letter to the Chairman of the House 
Judiciary Committee regarding H.R. 11268, an 
identical bill. 
Letter to the Chairman of the House Judiciary 
Committee regarding H.R. 11266, a bill to 
amend the Sherman Act to prohibit the invest-
ment of certain income in any business enter-
prise affecting interstate or foreign commerce. 

V ^t
1
 » J^ 
8/31/67 
-3-
New Philadelphia, Ohio, into The National Bank of Dover, Dover, Ohio. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The 
Peoples Bank 6c Savings Company, New Philadelphia, 
into The National Bank of Dover would eliminate 
existing and potential competition between the 
two banks and would further the concentration of 
banking resources in the Dover-New Philadelphia 
area. Overall, the effect of the proposal on 
competition would be adverse. 
Applications of Charter New York Corporation. There had been 
distributed under dates of August 3 and August 24, 1967, memoranda 
from the Division of Examinations and other pertinent papers relating 
to applications of Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, 
to acquire the outstanding voting shares of (1) Endicott Trust Company, 
Endicott, New York, and (2) Dutchess Bank 6c Trust Company, Poughkeepsie, 
New York. 
Approval of both applications was recommended by the Division 
of Examinations as well as by the Banking Markets Section and the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York. On recommendation by the New York 
State Superintendent of Banks, both applications had been approved by 
the State Banking Board. 
After a review of the applications by Mr. Leavitt, Governor 
Mitchell 
inquired about the amount of competition provided in Endicott 
by banks located outside that city. He observed that Endicott Trust 
Company held between 
4 5 - 5 0 per cent of the total deposits of banking 
°ffices in its primary service area and that there did not appear to 

3442 
8/31/67 
-4-
be evidence in the record as to how much competition was afforded to 
this bank by banks located in Binghamton or elsewhere. 
Mr. Shull stated that no survey of the area had been made, as 
there had not appeared to be an express need for such a survey. How-
ever, Mr. Kline commented that First-City National Bank of Binghamton, 
a member of the Lincoln First Group, had two or three offices located 
in the primary service area of Endicott Trust Company, as did the 
Marine Midland subsidiary bank headquartered in Elmira. 
Governor Mitchell then turned to questions concerning the con-
dition of the applicant holding company and its leading bank, Irving 
Trust Company of New York City. It was not clear to him how the con-
clusion had been reached that the holding company system was qualified 
to take on additional responsibility, particularly in the form of sat-
isfying capital requirements. The earnings of Irving Trust Company 
had been on a declining trend for several years and, in addition, the 
holding company was assuming the burden of an additional $2.5 million 
°f interest payments, with no provision for amortization of the indebt-
edness, to improve the liquidity position of Irving Trust Company. 
This raised the question why it was not an integral part of the plan 
that the dividends of the holding company be reduced. 
When Mr. Kline referred to the loss of prestige that would be 
involved if the holding company were forced to reduce its dividend rate 
drastically, Governor Mitchell commented that it was a fact that the 

, 
7 
3 4 4 8 
8/31/67 
-5-
earnings of the holding company and Irving Trust Company had been 
deteriorating even when Irving Trust Company was in an overextended 
position, with very high loan ratios. Irving Trust Company had indi-
cated that it was going to increase its capital, and it would appear 
that an elementary requirement would be for the holding company and 
the bank to agree to increase their retained earnings, despite whatever 
loss of prestige would be involved in a reduction of dividends. 
In 
response to his question, the staff confirmed that the stock of the 
holding company was held to a large degree by former owners of the 
stock of Irving Trust Company. 
Governor Mitchell commented further that only a few months ago 
Irving Trust Company was under supervisory criticism because of deteri-
orating asset, liquidity, and capital positions. Now there was injected 
into the situation the additional debt service requirements of the hold-
ing company, and still it appeared that a continuation of the current 
dividend rate was expected. This seemed to him unrealistic. He was 
not convinced by anything he found in the record that the holding com-
pany was capable of meeting its responsibilities and adding two banks 
to the holding company system without straining itself unreasonably. 
Mr. Leavitt observed that the management of Irving Trust Com-
pany had not been considered inadequate by the Board's staff. The 
bank had gotten itself overextended; it was subject to severe competi-
tive pressures in New York City. Nevertheless, the bank had some 

34 4 4. 
8/31/67 
-6-
competent people in its top management ranks, as reflected to some 
degree by the efforts now being made to improve the bank's situation. 
The earnings problem was admittedly extremely difficult. 
Governor Maisel raised a question about determination of the 
dividends paid by the holding company, particularly whether they had 
to be paid out of earned income, and Mr. Kline said the question was 
whether the dividends received from the subsidiary banks would supply 
the holding company with sufficient revenue to pay the dividend rate 
that was established in 1966 after the formation of the holding company. 
Since it was a new company, it had no reserves and could not pay out 
unearned income. 
Governor Mitchell then raised certain questions, to which the 
staff responded, with respect to the deposit structure of Irving Trust 
Company, following which he said that he would have no objection to 
approval of the pending applications except for his concern about the 
condition of Irving Trust Company. He would like to know more about 
the earnings potential of the holding company and its exposure in light 
of its debt service requirements. The record would not look good if 
the Board approved the applications and the holding company got into 
trouble later. 
Governor Maisel said Governor Mitchell had covered the points 
that seemed to him of concern in connection with the applications. 
It 
w
as not clear to him in the circumstances what procedure should best 
b e
 followed. 

' M d S 
«j Hr. 
8/31/67 
-7-
Governor Brimmer commented that with the change in the struc-
ture of banking in New York State it was vital for the Irving group to 
expand into up-State areas and avoid being surrounded. If the pending 
applications were turned down, some other group might seize the oppor-
tunity to move in and cut the Irving group out of the race. On that 
ground he was inclined to support the applications. However, the 
issues raised by Governor Mitchell were serious. He (Governor Brimmer) 
wondered what the reaction might be if the applicant were approached 
and told that the Board was concerned about the questions relating to 
capital and earnings and would like to know what could be done by way 
of dividend policy or other steps to strengthen the situation. In 
other words, his suggestion contemplated deferring action on the appli-
cations in order to express the Board's concern to the applicant and 
obtain reactions. If the Board approved the applications now and the 
holding company system then got into trouble, the record would look 
poor. 
Governor Sherrill agreed with Governor Brimmer. He added that 
he was not surprised that the earnings of Irving Trust Company were 
down at present, because that normally occurs in a period of adjust-
ment. However, he was surprised that the bank's earnings had not been 
better during the period when it was overextended, and he would like 
to know whether the basic flaw had been corrected. He agreed with 
Governor Brimmer that it was important for the Irving group to expand 

3 4 4 6 
8/31/67 
-8-
for competitive reasons, but he would like to know more about how 
Irving Trust Company got into the position it did and whether that was 
likely to happen again. 
Governor Maisel suggested that conversations such as proposed 
by Governor Brimmer include reference to whatever plans Charter New 
York Corporation might have for amortizing outstanding obligations and 
reducing dividends. 
After further discussion it was agreed that action on the pend-
ing applications would be deferred pending discussions along the lines 
that had been suggested. Mr. O'Connell inquired whether this should 
be interpreted as meaning that action on the applications was being 
deferred pending the submission of additional information or pending 
the taking of some action by the applicant, and Governor Brimmer said 
that he would have the former in mind. 
Equal employment opportunity (Item No. 5). There had been dis-
tributed a revised draft of report to the United States Civil Service 
Commission regarding the Board's equal employment opportunity program. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that when the previous draft was 
discussed at the meeting on August 18, 1967, the Board had asked him 
to work with the staff in revising the report and to look more closely 
at the Board's equal employment opportunity program. He was still 
engaged in the second part of the assignment and would have a presenta-
tion for the Board in the near future suggesting ways of strengthening 

P447 
8/31/67 
-9-
the program and, hopefully, of meshing it more directly with the pro-
grams at the Federal Reserve Banks. In the meantime he had worked with 
the staff on recasting the report, drawing somewhat more heavily on 
statistics available in the Personnel Division in an attempt to docu-
ment the change in the nature of the employment situation at the Board 
and the change in employment opportunities. He was reasonably satis-
fied with the revised draft of report, although he had a few editorial 
comments that he would pass on to the Board's Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Officer, Mr. Sherman. 
Mr. Sherman commented that the revised draft pointed up the 
situat ion a little better than the previous draft and that he thought 
the report was in satisfactory shape to go forward. Even though the 
submission of the report was not mandatory, it seemed clear from the 
August 18 discussion that it was the wish of the Board that such a 
report be submitted. While he did not have any specific comments 
regarding the content of the report, he thought it was a favorable, or 
at least a realistic, report. It reflected an attempt to augment the 
sources of recruitment of competent employees, particularly from minor-
ity groups. As Governor Brimmer had indicated, the question of expand-
ing the Board's program somewhat, and perhaps tying it in more closely 
with the programs of the Reserve Banks, was something that should be 
held over for discussion when Governor Brimmer was ready to report to 
the Board. 

1 V i q ft 
8/31/67 
-10-
The transmittal of the report to the Civil Service Commission 
was then approved unanimously. A copy of the report in the form in 
which it was sent is attached as Item No. 5. 
Application of First National Bank of Tampa and Union Security 
& Investment Company (Items 6-7). Pursuant to the understanding at the 
Board meeting yesterday, there had been distributed a draft of state-
ment reflecting approval of the proposal of The First National Bank of 
Tampa and Union Security & Investment Company, both of Tampa, Florida, 
to acquire 50.25 per cent of the voting shares of First National Bank 
of Lakeland, Lakeland, Florida. 
(Technically two applications were 
submitted.) 
Governor Maisel suggested the need for a change in one para-
graph of the proposed statement, and after discussion of that point 
agreement was reached on revised wording that seemed appropriate. 
The issuance of an order and statement in the matter was then 
authorized; copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 6 
and 7, respectively. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Letters were sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of 
its intent to establish an additional branch 
in Argentina, to be located in the Almagro 
District of Buenos Aires, and an additional 
branch in Ecuador, to be located in the 
Mercado Central area of Guayaquil. 

3449 
8/31/67 
-11-
Attached as Item No. 8 is a copy of a letter 
sent today to the Presidents of all Federal 
Reserve Banks regarding the manner of report-
ing applications received and actions taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated authority. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Robertson, 
Governor Sherrill today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Transfer 
Charles P. Brown, from the position of Operator (Multilith) to 
the position of General Duplicating Operator, Division of Administra-
tive Services, with an increase in basic annual salary from $5,990 to 
$6,282, effective September 10, 1967. 
Rescission of resignation 
Richard L. Breen, Statistical Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, whose resignation had previously been accepted as 
of the close of business September 19, 1967. 
On August 31, 1967, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Clearfield Trust Company, Clearfield 
Pennsylvania, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Lawrence Township. 
C 
Item No 

0?COV£. 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/31/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P Q N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 31, 1967. 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter dated August 15, 1967, 
enclosing a certified copy of a resolution of shareholders amending 
Article SEVENTH of the Articles of Association of your Corporation 
to increase the capital stock to $10,000,000, consisting of 100,000 
shares of the par value of $100 each. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment to Article 
SEVENTH. Please advise the Board, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, when the capital increase has been effected. 
It is understood that Continental Illinois National Bank 
and Trust Company of Chicago will purchase the additional 20,000 
shares at a cost of $200 per share, or $4,000,000, which will be 
apportioned $2,000,000 to capital and $2,000,000 to surplus of 
Continental International Finance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3151 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 2 
8/31/67 
September 5, 1967 
The Honorable James 0. Eastland, 
Chairman, 
Committee on the Judiciary, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request of August 10, 1967 
for the Board's views on S. 2049, a bill "To prohibit the invest-
ment of income derived from certain criminal activities in any 
business enterprise affecting interstate or foreign commerce, and 
for other purposes." 
The Board believes that the subject of this bill is 
outside of the area of its responsibility, and, accordingly, it 
has no recommendation to offer on the proposal. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F T H E 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
8/31/67 
Item No 
September 5, 1967 
The Honorable Emanuel Celler, Chairman, 
Committee on the Judiciary, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request of July 10, 1967, 
for the Board's views on H.R. 11268, a bill "To prohibit the 
investment of income derived from certain criminal activities 
in any business enterprise affecting interstate or foreign commerce 
and for other purposes." 
The Board believes that the subject of this bill is 
outside of the area of its responsibility, and, accordingly, it 
has no recommendation to offer on the proposal. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 

QF cni/„ •. 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
8/31/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
September 5, 1967 
The Honorable Emanuel Celler, Chairman, 
Committee on the Judiciary, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request of July 10, 1967, 
for the Board's views on H.R. 11266, a bill "To amend the Sherman 
Act to prohibit the investment of certain income in any business 
enterprise affecting interstate or foreign commerce." 
The Board believes that the subject of this bill is 
outside of the area of its responsibility, and, accordingly, it 
has no recommendation to offer on the proposal. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 

BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
34 54 
Item No. 5 
8/31/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 31, 1967. 
Executive Director, 
U. S. Civil Service Commission, 
Washington, D . C. 
20415 
. s 3 
• • 
Dear Sir: 
With reference to Bulletin No. 713-8 of May 19, 1967, 
there is enclosed a statement relating to the Board's Equal 
Employment Opportunity Program. As indicated in the report, 
the Board has a continuing and positive program for providing 
equal employment opportunity to all qualified persons without 
regard to race, creed, color, national origin, or sex. 
. t 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt She rman 
Enclosure 
Merritt Sherman, 
Equal Employment Opportunity Officer. 
s t r 
••« 

Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM 
icuucry h i 
r { 
On August 1, 1966 the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System sent a statement to the U.S. Civil Service Commission regarding its 
Equal Employment Opportunity Program. The statement included comments on 
steps that had been taken or were planned with respect to the Board's 
program for providing equal opportunity for all qualified persons without 
regard to race, creed, color, national origin, or sex and for promoting 
equal employment opportunity through a positive continuing program. The 
program outlined in the 1966 statement has been reviewed recently, and 
comments follow along the lines of the points listed on pages 2-4 of the 
Civil Service Commission Bulletin No. 713-8 of May 19, 1967. 
1. How is the agency presently organized to administer 
the program? 
The program is a joint responsibility of the Board of Governors 
the Equal Employment Opportunity Officer, Division Heads, and Supervisors 
at all levels. The Division of Personnel Administration has special responsi 
bility for planning and administering personnel programs based on equal 
opportunity; this involves such areas as recruitment, training, and placement 
The Equal Employment Opportunity Officer,who is Secretary of the Board and 
who reports directly to the Board, has responsibility for reviewing, 
evaluating, and making recommendations to the Board for improving the 
equal opportunity program; he also has authority to investigate and make 
recommendations regarding any complaints of discrimination that may arise. 

.2. 
The Federal Reserve Banks located In different parts of the 
country have their own equal employment opportunity programs, which are 
the responsibility of their individual Boards of Directors, the Reserve 
Bank officers, and supervisory personnel. The Board of Governors in 
Washington follows closely the Reserve Bank programs and evaluates them 
periodically. Under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Reserve 
Banks report equal employment opportunity information on Standard Form 100 
(submitted to Joint Reporting Committee of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission, the Office of Federal Contract Compliance, and Plans for Progress 
Program). The reports submitted this year showed that 13 per cent of the 
approximately 19,000 employees of the twelve Federal Reserve Banks and their 
twenty-four branches were members of minority groups, compared with 11 per 
cent in 1966. The Reserve Banks exchange ideas and information regarding 
equal employment opportunity among themselves and with the Board of Governors. 
They also keep in touch with various programs in this area, such as Plans 
for Progress. 
2. What overall and specific program objectives have been 
set and what are the target dates to reach them? 
The principal objectives of the Board's program are the maintenance 
Of all aspects of the positive program that has been established and the 
development of any new procedures that may appear desirable to accomplish 
the aims of the program. As a specific objective, the Board is seeking 
additional sources of minority group applicants, including persons who have 
competence in the computer, economic research, and other professional fields. 
Since the Board's program is in operation on a continuing basis, no specific 
target dates have been set for the general or specific objectives. 

-3- 
,->A cry 
v W v ? f 
3. What were the significant agencywide problems identified 
and what were the actions and target dates to meet them? 
The main problem experienced at the Board related to the location 
and retention of qualified employees of both majority and minority groups. 
-
>
 !
 i.:. ; : . 
r •;:.. 
.... ,. 
•••.>• „. 
- 
' ' 
This was particularly evident in the computer and economic research fields 
where the market is highly competitive. To meet the problem, special 
attention has been given throughout the year to the Board's recruitment 
program. This program includes consideration on an equitable basis of all 
applicants who call at the Board's offices or make inquiry by telephone or 
mail. The Board's staff maintains contact with the United States Employment 
Service, the placement offices of high schools, business schools, and 
colleges (including those with minority group enrollments), and other 
promising sources such as professional societies, Federal agencies, and 
similar organizations. On occasion advertisements, which state that the 
Board is an Equal Opportunity Employer, are placed in newspapers, and 
circulars are sent to nearby schools to seek applicants. 
Job structures are analyzed on a continuing basis by the 
individual Divisions concerned, the Division of Personnel Administration, 
and the Office of the Controller for the purpose of adopting positive 
measures for providing maximum utilization of skills and training in 
order to improve the efficiency of the entire work force. The analysis 
of job structures is also concerned with measures to insure equality of 
opportunity for employees in both majority and minority groups to participate 
in various parts of the Board's work. As an example of steps that have 

3158 
been taken in this area, it is significant to note the progress that hafc 
been made among Board personnel over a period of years by individual 
minority group employees now in skilled or semi-skilled blue collar 
positions. Half of the employees in these positions are Negroes, most of 
whom were appointed originally to lower grade positions such as messengers, 
cafeteria helpers, and laborers. By recognizing their abilities and 
developing their skills through training programs, these employees have 
qualified for better positions and have advanced accordingly to positions 
in grades ranging from printing grade 6 through 14. 
What significant problems of concern to particular 
locales were identified and what were the actions 
and target dates to meet the problems? 
Problems of concern to locales outside Washington, D. C., 
would involve the twelve regional Federal Reserve Banks and their twenty-
four branches. As explained under question 1 above, such problems would 
be a responsibility of and dealt with by the individual Reserve Banks. 
What follow-up steps have been taken or planned to 
complete or make more effective the above actions? 
The Board's Regulations and Procedures Relating to Equal 
Employment Opportunity were recently revised and a copy was transmitted 
to each employee with a letter from the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Officer. The letter called attention to the Board's policy of providing 
equal employment opportunity and invited employees to discuss any questions 
they might have regarding the regulations with the Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Officer or his Deputy. The regulations will be made available 
similarly to new employees. 

As a means of keeping abreast of developments in the 
equal employment opportunity field, members of the Board's staff have 
attended various conferences such as the First Annual Institute on 
Equal Employment Opportunity (presented by the Society of Personnel 
Administration), which was held at the State Department on March 16, 1967. 
Plans for implementing the Board's program further include 
a meeting of all Division H-ads with a member of the Board of Governors, 
which has been scheduled at an early date for the purpose of discussing 
the program with a view to determining any additional steps that should 
be taken to strengthen it. At that time one of the items to be considered 
will be means of obtaining new sources of qualified minority group 
applicants, especially for computer, economic research, and other profes-
sional positions. Another step that is planned is the inclusion of 
information regarding the Board's equal employment opportunity program in 
supervisory development courses. 
Various aspects of the program will continue to be evaluated 
on a day-to-day basis by members of the staff having responsibility in 
this area. Through concerted action at all organizational levels, any 
problems that may arise will be assured prompt and thorough attention. 
6. What system has been established for effective 
review of plans and activities undertaken to 
reach program objectives? 
Employment figures at various grade levels for majority 
a
nd minority groups are reviewed annually by members of the Board and 
staff. The most recent review, as of June 30, 1967, showed that 
20 per cent of the Board's employees are Negroes--a 60 per cent increase 

since June 30, 1966. This increase reflects new appointments to positions 
in the areas of computer programming and operations and in tabulating and 
chart machine operations that were not previously occupied by Negroes. 
Also, there was a substantial increase in the number of clerical, typist, 
stenographic, and cafeteria helper positions occupied by Negroes. There 
were no net additions to the number of Negroes in wage board jobs. More-
over, minority group members represented over 80 per cent of the net increase 
of 60 persons in other employment at the Board in the last year. 
Within the several Divisions of the Board, Division Heads and 
Supervisors review periodically various matters relating to employees in 
those areas. This includes consideration of the type of training programs 
and job structures that are needed in order that employees may perform 
their work efficiently and be eligible for promotion. It also is concerned 
with a careful review of applications for positions, having in mind the 
location of qualified personnel without regard to race, creed, color, 
national origin, or sex. In order to determine whether equal opportunities 
are being afforded, the Equal Employment Opportunity Officer from time to 
time arranges for (1) spot checking applications received and positions 
filled; (2) analyzing promotions; and (3) reviewing training programs. 
7. What new or unusual ideas or approaches to further 
progress have been developed and tried? 
How successful were they? 
In order to uncover any latent skills among present Board 
employees, any interested employees were given an opportunity this year 
to take aptitude tests for computer programming positions at the Board; 
three employees passed these tests. In 1966 employees in the two lowest grade 
levels were advised of opportunities for promotion to positions as key 

3461 
punch operators and tests were given on a voluntary basis to all those who 
wished to be considered. Similar testing opportunities at various levels 
will be repeated at appropriate intervals in the future. 
8. What problems or program areas have been identified which 
need further CSC attention? 
No particular problems or program areas needing further 
Civil Service Commission attention have been identified. 
" 
' 
" 
• 
" 
• 
" > 
August 30, 1967. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Item
 N o
-
8/31/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C. 
In the Matter of the Applications of
 
1 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF TAMPA and
 
1 
UNION SECURITY & INVESTMENT COMPANY,
 
1 
TAllPA, FLORIDA,
 
1 
for approval of the acquisition of voting
 1 
shares of First National Bank of Lakeland,
1 
Lakeland, Florida. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATIONS UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There have come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1042(a)) 
and section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), 
applications on behalf of The First National Bank of Tampa and Union 
Security & Investment Company, both of Tampa, Florida, for the Board's 
approval of the acquisition by Union Security & Investment Company of 
5
°.25 per cent of the voting shares of First National Bank of Lakeland, 
lakeland, Florida, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of 
t
he applications uas given to, and viev;s and recommendation requested of, 
Comptroller of the Currency. The Comptroller recommended that the 
a
PPlications be approved. 

3 4 6 3 
-2-
Motice of receipt of the applications was published in the 
Federal Register on April 0, 1967 (32 Federal Register 5752), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. Copies of the applications were 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing such comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said applications be and hereby are approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of the Order unless such period is 
e
xtended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 31st day of August, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
 
x c e m 
JNO
* ' 
8/31/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS OF THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF TAMPA 
AND UNION SECURITY & INVESTMENT COMPANY, BOTH OF TAMPA, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF LAKELAND, LAKELAND, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
The First National Bank of Tampa ("First National") and Union 
Security & Investment Company ("US&I), both of which are registered bank 
holding companies located in Tampa, Florida, have filed with the Board, 
pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
amended ("the Act"), applications for the approval of the acquisition of 
50.25 per cent of the voting shares of First National Bank of Lakeland, 
Lakeland, Florida ("Bank"). (First National and US&I are referred to 
collectively herein as "Applicants".) 
US&I, a majority of the stock of which is trusteed for the 
benefit of the shareholders of First National, owns controlling stock of 
three Florida banks. Considering First National and the three subsidiary 
banks as a group, the group had total deposits of $170.2 million as 
of June 30, 1966.-
/ 
Bank, with total deposits of about $7 million, ranks fourteenth 
in size among 20 banks in Polk County, Florida. It is located 32 miles 
1/ All banking data are as of this date unless otherwise noted. 

34 65 
-2-
from Tampa, the site of First National and two of the subsidiary banks, 
and 52 miles from Brooksville, the location of Applicants' third sub-
sidiary. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller of the 
Currency of receipt of the applications and requested his views and 
recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended that the applications 
be approved. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly, or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States. 
Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, the effect of which, 
in any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, 
tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the conven-
ience and needs of the community to be served. In each case the Board 
is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks 
c
°ncerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Approximately 
37 
per cent of the total commercial banking deposits in the State of Florida 
Q
re controlled by ten large banking organizations, including six bank 

-3-
holding company groups. Applicants
1
 system, with less than 3 per cent 
of State-wide deposits, is the sixth largest banking organization and 
the fifth largest of ten bank holding companies in the State. The pro-
posed acquisition would have no significant effect on State-wide banking 
or holding company concentration. 
Bank's primary service area consists of the City of Lakeland 
and a surrounding area of approximately two miles, and has an estimated 
population of about 65,000. Bank ranks fourth in size among five banks 
located in the area, accounting for about 6 per cent of local deposits 
and about 2.5 per cent of the deposits of all banks in Polk County. 
Three of the four banks presently constituting Applicants' 
group (First National, Broadway National Bank of Tampa, and Second 
National Bank of Tampa), are located in Hillsborough County and the 
fourth, First National Bank of Brooksville, is located in Hernando 
County. None of the service areas of the present group banks extends 
into Polk County or into Bank's primary service area. Only First 
National, of the group banks, derives any measurable business from that 
area - less than three-tenths of one per cent each of its deposits of 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC deposits"), commercial 
and industrial loans, farm loans,and consumer loans. Such business is 
equal to 7 per cent of Bank's IPC deposits and about 3 per cent or less 
of its loans in each category. Bank derives no significant business 
from the primary service area of any of Applicants' banks. 

-2-
34 R7 
On the basis of the foregoing considerations, it is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition will not create a 
monopoly or tend substantially to lessen competition, nor will it in 
any other manner restrain trade. 
Convenience and needs of the areas to be served. - Applicants 
do not assert, nor does the record support, the existence of any un-
served banking needs in the Lakeland area. It is contended, however, 
that the acquisition will enable Bank to offer new and expanded special-
ized services. Bank does not have a trust department, but according to 
Applicants the acquisition will allow Bank to provide such services to 
its customers by referral to other banks in Applicants 
group. 
The extension of such services by Bank could afford some 
convenience to the public. In addition, Applicants state that substantial 
economies can be effected through the use of joint purchasing, insurance, 
and advertising programs that would be of direct benefit to Bank and of 
Possible indirect benefit to the public. Consideration of this factor, 
therefore, lends some weight in favor of approval of the applications. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - The 
financial history and condition of Applicants, their present subsidiaries, 
a
nd Bank are all considered satisfactory, and their respective managements 
a r e
 viewed as experienced and competent. In the absence of a significant 
a n t
icompetitive effect, or of any negative considerations bearing on the 
'convenience and needs" factor or on the financial condition of the hold-
i n
S company and the institutions involved, the Board believes it to be 

-2-
34 G8 
consistent with the statutory purposes to permit achievement of the 
purpose intended by the private interests on whose behalf a given appli-
cation has been filed. However, in the present case, the Board wishes to 
note that the form of Applicants' proposal presents sufficient potential 
conflicts of numerous interests as to raise some question of whether it 
serves certain private interests to the undue disadvantage of the interests 
of Bank's minority stockholders. The following facts bear on the question 
presented. 
At the time of Bank's organization in 1963, no individual owned 
a controlling interest in Bank's outstanding stock. In 1964, an individual 
who had subscribed to 15 per cent of the 40,000 shares originally issued 
by Bank purchased additional shares and, in 1965, acquired a controlling 
interest in Bank. Recently this majority owner sold to a director of 
First National, who is also a trustee of US&I, 22,253 shares of Bank at 
$35 .50 per share. In turn, Applicants propose, pursuant to the applica-
tions before the Board, to acquire 20,100 of these shares, equal to 
50,25 per cent of Bank's voting stock. Thus, Applicants would acquire 
bare-majority control of Bank at $35,50 per share, plus reimbursement to 
the seller for expenses incurred in connection with his acquisition of 
the stock to be acquired by Applicants. The $35.50 per share price repre-
sents a substantial premium over book value (7.4 per cent) and was not 
°ffered to owners of other shares. The transaction suggests the potential 
e
xistence of economic relationships which the holding company will derive 
^oin its shares that may not be available to other shareholders. 
Applicants 

- 6 -
v ? Hi H • <1 
have made known that this bare-majority interest is the total extent of 
the interest which they propose to acquire, and that no offer will be 
made by them to the 128 minority shareholders of Bank. However, four of 
the present directors of Bank, two of whom are also directors of First 
National and trustees of US&I, and one of whom is the prospective seller 
to Applicants of the 20,100 shares of Bank, have purchased stock of Bank 
for their own accounts and have indicated a willingness to purchase any 
additional shares tendered by minority shareholders at a price of 
$30 per share. This offer continues and, despite the fact that there is 
no present understanding or agreement between Applicants and the directors 
with respect to future purchase by Applicants of the shares which have 
been, or which subsequently may be, purchased by these directors, such 
transactions have the potential for self-dealing in the future however 
well intended they may be now. 
Other aspects of this proposal, reflected in major part in 
the foregoing statement of facts, are also of concern to the Board, First, 
the acquisition of bare-majority control interest has some disturbing 
^plications with respect to efficient harmonious operation of the in-
stitution involved. While creation and/or expansion of a holding company 
by 
means of its acquisition of a bare-majority interest in a bank or banks 
i s
 not prohibited by the Act, it is obvious that the interest of such a 
c
°mpany in the effective operation of its subsidiaries might reasonably 
found to bear direct relation to its extent of ownership and related 
of loss. It would therefore seem more conducive to effective 

34 70 
-7-
management arid operation of banks if a holding company which will 
formulate and enforce the total operational policy of these banks acquires 
an ox^mership interest more commensurate with its authority than is re-
flected in bare-majority ownership. 
An additional aspect of Applicants' proposal is that no offer 
to purchase Bank's stock will be made by Applicants to 128 shareholders 
of Bank who, in the aggregate, own over 40 per cent of Bank's outstanding 
shares. These minority shareholders apparently were not consulted re-
garding Applicants' proposal to acquire control of Bank and, from all 
that appears in the record before us, at least some of them may, even at 
this date, be entirely unaware that such a proposal has been made. Under 
existing law, the owner of a minority interest in a bank cannot effectively 
block an acquisition endorsed by the owners of the majority interest or 
to share equally with such majority interest in prior notice and consulta-
tion regarding proposed actions affecting the corporation. However, it is 
an entirely reasonable expectation, in the Board's opinion, that, in the 
event of an acquisition such as that here proposed, each shareholder will 
be treated equally to the extent of his ownership interest, and that, in-
sofar as possible, will be given an equal opportunity to sell or exchange 
his shares when there occurs so major a change in the bank's operations 
and prospects as affiliation with a holding company. 
It may be readily agreed that, as a matter of hard business 
judgment, those shares which are needed to control a corporation have a 
Particular value which is not possessed by other shares whose acquisition 
Will merely increase the degree of control. There are practical reasons, 

-2-
3471 
in the Board's judgment, why a bank supervisory authority should be 
hesitant to give its approval to any practice which does not accord 
an evenhanded treatment to all stockholders, particularly in the case 
of those banks whose control is concentrated in one or two interests. As 
a result of a rapid expansion in the level of commercial bank deposits, 
there is constant pressure upon banks to increase their capital structures. 
If it were to become an accepted practice that the owner of anything less 
than a majority interest in bank stock is exposed to an inferior position 
in any future merger negotiation, the result could well be to reduce 
the attractiveness of bank stock as an investment. 
As above indicated, with respect to a bank stock purchase offer, 
the Board believes most equitable a procedure, usually followed in hold-
ing company acquisition proposals, of affording all stockholders an oppor-
tunity to participate in the transaction proposed. A prospective bank 
holding company purchaser of bank stocks, such as Applicants, could limit 
its total stock purchase to a desired percentage, while at the same time 
affording an opportunity for sale to all stockholders of the same class 
of stock by making known to all shareholders the purchaser's intention to 
acquire a stated percentage of the bank's stock, shares to be purchased 
(at a stated per share price) on a first-come, first-served basis. This 
method of purchase, viewed favorably over Applicants' proposal now before 
the Board, has the virtue of affording equal notice to all shareholders, 
e v e
n though the actual opportunity to participate in the proposal may, on 
°ccasion#be less real than at first apparent. 

-9-
;M 72 
An alternative procedure for soliciting tenders of stock, and 
ultimately more equitable, would be to make known to all stockholders a 
proposal to purchase a stated percentage of the bank's stock (at a stated 
per share price) with the understanding that shares would be purchased from 
all tendering shareholders on a pro rata basis, that is, the purchaser 
would take a proportionate number of shares from each tendering stockholder, 
the aggregate of such shares not to exceed the percentage of ownership 
proposed. Such a pro rata purchase procedure is reasonably calculated to 
serve equitably and protect both the offeror and the offeree. The absence 
of such equitable treatment is found to exist in the present case. 
In expressing in this case its views regarding an applicant's 
affording equal notice and opportunity to all stockholders with respect 
to a proposed stock purchase, the Board is aware of the offer made by 
four of Bank's directors to purchase all or any part of the more than 
40 per cent minority share interest at $30 per share. This proposal, 
\tfhile lessening certain of the inequities found by the Board to be in-
herent in Applicants' proposal, does not achieve the level of equitable 
dealings believed by the Board to be desirable. 
Conclusion. - The Board concludes that weighing the relevant 
facts of record in the light of the statutory factors pursuant to which 
the Board's determination is to be made, consummation of Applicants' 
proposal is sufficiently consistent with the public interest as to war-
rant approval. Accordingly, the applications are approved. 
August 31, 1967. 

BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
«'M 7 8 
Item No. 8 
8/31/67 
S-2031 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 31, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
With reference to the Board's letter of June 8, 1967 
(S-2020), concerning Federal Reserve Bank operations under 
delegated authority, the following code words have been assigned 
to simplify anu expedite handling of daily telegrams reporting 
requests for action and actions taken: 
1. ILNUR: 
Received following request(s) or 
application(s) for action under 
delegated authority at this Reserve 
Bank on (date) 
2. ILNOT: 
Received no request(s) or application(s) 
for action under delegated authority at 
this Reserve Bank on (date) 
3. ACNUR: 
Following action(s) taken under 
delegated authority by this Reserve 
Bank on (date) 
4 . ACNOT: 
No action taken under delegated authority 
by this Reserve Bank on (date) 
In reporting these words it would also be helpful if the 
telegrams were set up in the following manner, with the indentations 
indicated: 
ILNUR (date) 
1. 
" 2 V 
3. 
ILNOT (date) 
OR 

-2-
S-2031 
ACNUR (date) 
1. 
3. 
OR 
< 
. f 
c 
. 
.... 
- . 
• - 
- 
• . -
t 
ACNOT (date) 
A sample telegram using the suggested form is enclosed. 
Upon receipt of this letter, it is suggested that all 
Federal Reserve Banks use the code words listed above in their 
daily telegrams. 
Very truly yours, 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
•; i i i 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3475 
S-2031a 
SAMPLE TELEGRAM 
(Delegated Authority) 
Board 
ILNUR August 25, 1967 
1. Farmers and Merchants Bank of Summersville, Summersville, 
West Virginia, to invest in bank premises in an amount 
in excess of its capital stock. 
2. Union Trust Company of Maryland, Baitimore, Maryland, 
to establish a branch near intersection of Liberty and 
Marriottsville Roads, Baltimore County, Maryland. 
ACNUR August 25, 1967 
1. Approved application by South Carolina National Bank, 
Charleston, South Carolina, for permission to accept 
commercial drafts or bills in an amount up to 100 of 
its capital and surplus. 
2. Approved extension of time to November 9, 1967, in which 
The First Virginia Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, 
must consummate acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
stock of Cambria Bank Incorporated, Christiansburg, 
Virginia. 
Nosker 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
P H I L A D E L P H I A 
POSTAL ZONK 1 
. 3476 
Item No. 9 
8/31/67 
August 31, 1967 
Mr. Asbury W. Lee, III 
President 
The Clearfield Trust Company 
Clearfield, Pennsylvania 16830 
Dear Mr. Lee: 
\ 
Under date of March 10, 1966, the Board^or^vernOM 
of the Federal Reserve System approved the establishment, 
\ 
by Clearfield Trust Company of an 
In the Ames Department Store Shopp 
Curvensvllle Highway (U.S.' Route 
Clearfield County, Pennsylvania 
established within one year of 
Utader date of March 6, 196 
Board of Governors of thrTederal Re 
for six months from March 10, 1^67 the 
bank could establish A branch a t H h e 
branch office 
on the Clearfield-
rice Township, 
>d/ihe/ branch was 
rwaid/date. 
w£re advised the 
stem had extended 
thin which your 
ocation. 
Under date 
the branch will not 
Tine Drancn w i n not D^ established, 
and you ask for anothervCxta^sion; 
t 30,N^96t\you have advised us that 
established/within the extended time 
Philade 
of Go 
months 
Trust C 
advise ^ou th^tfthe Federal Reserve Bank of 
ng under delegated authority from the Board 
Reserve System, extends for six 
10, 1967 the time within which Clearfield 
a branch at the subject location. 
Yours sincerely, 
ft. JL Ci 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 
1/ In your letter of August 30, 1967 you have asked for an extension 
for one year. Customarily the Board of Governors has granted 
extensions for no more than six months at any one time. 
