Minutes for 
July 12, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

«rvf> '! "J? 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, July 12, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, 
Wernick, Baker, Burns, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, 
and Kichline of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Ghiardi, Katz, Wood, Bradshaw, 
Gekker, and Roxon of the Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty reported on the Government 
securities market, Mr. Burns commented on bank credit developments, 
Mr. Ettin discussed the corporate and municipal bond markets, and 

5£G44 
7/12/68 
-2-
Mr. Bradshaw summarized foreign exchange and gold market developments. 
Copies of the several charts and tables distributed in connection with 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Partee, Reynolds, and Ettin 
withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 
«*!•; 
j 
? i, , ^ 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Fisher, Senior Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Maguire, Supervisory Review Examiner, Division 
of Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. 
Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on July 11, 1968, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
aft er consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
1 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting 
consent to the acquisition of additional 
shares of Compania Financiera Ecuatoriana 
de Desarrollo S.A., Quito, Ecuador. 

/OO* 
7/12/68 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to the Chairman of the Federal Home 
2 
Loan Bank Board requesting access to indi-
vidual savings and loan association data 
for use in continuing research on the role 
of financial intermediaries in the savings 
process. 
In connection with Item No. 1, Governor Maisel suggested that 
applications for approval of investments of the type that could for-
merly have been made under the general consent provisions of Regula-
tion K might well be handled under delegated authority and that con-
sideration be given to this possibility. Governor Mitchell suggested, 
as an alternative, restoration of the general consent provisions. 
Policy record entry. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from Mr. Kenyon dated July 10, 1968, submitting a draft of policy 
record entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
on April 19, 1968. The entry had been approved by the Board on June 28 
1968, and no further suggestions for changes had been received. It 
was proposed to release the entry to the press on Thursday, July 18. 
The release of the entry to the press on Thursday, July 18, 
was approved unanimously. 
Mortgage commitment survey (Item No. 3). In a memorandum from 
Mr. Brill dated July 11, 1968, it was proposed that a survey be under-
taken by the Federal Reserve Banks around the end of the month to 
ascertain current and prospective mortgage commitment volume at leading 
representative commercial banks, mortgage companies, savings banks, 

SS46 
7/12/68 
-4-
and life insurance companies. In an attached draft of letter were set 
forth the questions that would be asked of the parties interviewed. 
The questions duplicated those tested in last February's survey, and 
paralleled questions that would be used by the Federal Home Loan Banks 
in surveying savings and loan associations. 
Following comments by Mr. Fisher, Governor Maisel suggested 
that use of the term "normal" for comparative purposes was ambiguous, 
and there was agreement that reference should be made instead to "the 
same period last year." 
The proposed survey was then authorized. Attached as Item 
No. 3 is a copy of the letter sent to the Reserve Banks. 
Retirement System (Item No. 4). In a memorandum dated July 8, 
1968, a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files, Mr. Sherman 
discussed the report on the Federal Reserve Retirement System made 
recently by an Ad Hoc Committee of the Conference of Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks based on a study by a firm of consulting actu-
aries. The report had not been submitted formally by the Conference 
to the Board of Governors, nor had it been presented formally to the 
Trustees of the Retirement System. The Conference, at its meeting on 
March 4, 1968, had endorsed the direction and principle of the plan 
proposed in the Committee draft and had authorized its discussion with 
the Board of Governors, with the understanding that if any of the pro-
posed changes were unacceptable to the Board the Ad Hoc Committee would 

2647 
7/12/68 
-5-
refocus its efforts and present a revised report for Conference con-
sideration prior to submitting the plan to the Board of Trustees. 
After analyzing the principal changes proposed by the Ad Hoc 
Committee, Mr. Sherman noted that they were far-reaching and suggested 
that this might be the time for a thoroughgoing review, and possibly a 
general overhaul, of the Retirement System. There seemed to be no 
time pressure that would preclude making such a comprehensive study. 
In 1962 and 1963 the Board had engaged Professor Dan M. McGill of the 
Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania as a consultant in 
connection with a Retirement System study, and he suggested that the 
Board might wish to consider utilizing again the services of a person 
such as Professor McGill. 
After comments by Mr. Sherman based generally on the contents 
°f his memorandum, Governor Maisel noted that the annual meeting of 
Retirement System Trustees was to be held next week. The Trustees 
would have on their agenda a proposal to increase the rate used in 
crediting regular interest to the contributions of members in the 
Annuity Accumulation Account and to the reserves in the Retirement 
Reserve Account and for other purposes allowed under the Rules and 
Regulations of the Retirement System. In line with the Board's accep-
tance of his recommendation at its meeting on May 27, 1968, he would 
Propose to express the view that any change in the interest rate should 
be deferred pending further consideration of the Ad Hoc Committee's 

2648 
7/12/68 
-6-
proposals. Governor Maisel supported Mr. Sherman's suggestion that 
the Board retain the services of an expert adviser before entering 
into negotiations concerning the Committee's report. 
There followed a general discussion of the Retirement System, 
implicati ons of the report of the Ad Hoc Committee, and significant 
points on which decisions would have to be made. Following this dis-
cussion, it was agreed that it would be appropriate to retain a con-
sultant and that Professor McGill should be obtained if he was avail-
able, his services to be contracted for on the same terms as when he 
had served previously. 
Secretary's Note: It having been ascertained 
that Professor McGill was available, his ser-
vices were contracted for at the rate of $200 
per day, plus necessary expenses incurred by 
him, including but not limited to round-trip 
transportation from Denver, Colorado, to 
Washington, D. C. A copy of the letter sent 
to Dr. McGill confirming the arrangement is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Request from Department of Justice (Item No. 5). Mr. O'Connell 
referred to a current investigation by Government agencies into alle-
gations of influence exercised by organized crime over businesses and 
individuals in the Buffalo, New York, area, including influence in the 
granting of bank loans. In connection with that investigation the 
Department of Justice had requested access to certain bank examination 
reports. Mr. O'Connell recommended that the Board authorize its staff 
to make the reports of examination available to representatives of the 

\ ' » . 
7/12/68 
-7-
Department for study in the Board's offices and to proceed in like 
fashion in connection with any other similar requests, reporting back 
to the Board as necessary. 
Mr. O'Connell's recommendation was approved unanimously. 
Attached as Item No. 5 is a copy of the letter subsequently sent to 
the Department of Justice. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Solomon, 
and Hart, and Miss Wolcott then withdrew. 
Staff reorganization (Item No. 6). Governor Sherrill summa-
rized a proposed realignment of staff responsibilities, to be made 
effe ctive July 14, 1968, including a change in the title of the Divi-
sion of Examinations to Division of Supervision and Regulation; a 
change in the title of the Division of Bank Operations to Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations; the transfer of Charles C. Walcutt, 
Assistant Director, and Lloyd M. Schaeffer, Chief Federal Reserve 
Examiner, Division of Examinations, to the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations; and the temporary assignment of Tynan Smith, Associate 
Advi ser, Division of Research and Statistics, to the position of Acting 
Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation. 
These proposals were approved unanimously, effective July 14, 
1968, it being understood that transfers of positions and budgetary 
Provisions would be carried out by the divisions involved in collabo-
ration with the Office of the Controller and the Division of Personnel 
Administration. 

«'•> *» ct\ 
I O O O U 
7/12/68 
-8-
The Board also approved unanimously the further recommendation 
of Governor Sherrill that John N. Lyon, Supervisory Review Examiner in 
the Division of Examinations, be appointed Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation, effective July 14, 1968, with annual 
salary at the rate of $20,500. 
Secretary's Note: Attached as Item No. 6 
is a copy of the press release that was 
issued reflecting the foregoing actions. 
In addition, Governor Sherrill was authorized to negotiate on 
behalf of the Board for the services of Robert E. Nichols, formerly 
Financial Editor of the Los Angeles Times, as a member of the official 
staff attached to the Board Members' Offices, with salary at the rate 
°f $25,000 per annum, effective upon assuming duties, it being under-
stood that an appropriate title would be determined by Governor Sherrill 
Secretary's Note: The appointment was 
subsequently made pursuant to this 
authorization, with title of Special 
Assistant to the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On July 10, 1968, a 
letter was sent over the signature of 
Chairman Martin to Chairman Sparkman of 
the Senate Banking and Currency Committee 
in response to the latter's request for 
the views of the Board on S. 3707, a bill 
"to prohibit federally insured banks from 
voting their own stock and to provide for 
cumulative voting in federally insured 
banks." The letter was similar to that 
sent to the Chairman of the House Banking 
and Currency Committee on February 1, 1968, 
reporting on H.R. 13884. 

/ G O O 
7/12/68 
-9-
The requirements contemplated by the Board's 
action on June 5, 1968, in approving the issu-
ance of a preliminary permit to National City 
Cleveland International Corporation, New York, 
New York, having been completed, a letter was 
sent to that corporation on July 10 transmit-
ting a final permit to commence business. 
On July 11, 1968, a letter was sent to First 
National City Bank, New York, New York, acknowl-
edging receipt of notice of its intent to estab-
lish an additional branch in Colombia, to be 
located in Bogota. 
On July 11, 1968, Governor Sherrill approved 
on behalf of the Board the following items: 
Telegram to President Francis, Chairman of the Committee on Sundry 
Operations, Conference of Presidents, approving service by Charles C. 
Walcutt of the Board's staff as associate member of the Subcommittee on 
Bank Protection, and also approving service by Robert I. Bouck as con-
sultant to the Subcommittee. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
July li 1968, recommending that Wendell Primus, programmer for 
Professor James A. Stephenson, a consultant, be authorized to return 
to Washington in July to work at the Board for two weeks, with compen-
sation at the rate of $4 per hour plus transportation expenses and per 
diem in accordance with the Board's travel regulations. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Salary increase 
Edward Lloyd Mertz, Senior Attorney, Legal Division, from $18,404 
t o $19,017 per annum, retroactive to June 16, 1968. 
•Permission to engage in outside activity 
Trania A. Leahey, Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, 
to work as a public stenographer on a part-time basis. 
Governor Sherrill today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 

-O » CTO 
7/12/68 
-10-
Letter to the Department of Highways and Traffic, Government of 
the District of Columbia, (copy attached as Item No. 7) , authorizing 
the relocation of an emergency fire and police communications cable 
located in the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company duct in C 
Street, at a cost of approximately $1,500. 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
June 26, 1968, requesting authorization to replace a Model 1250 
multilith machine with a larger-size Model 1850 duplicator at a 
cost of approximately $7,000, and to purchase a table model folding 
machine at a cost of $925. 
Memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated July 10, 1968, 
recommending that the fee of Chapman C. Fleming, consultant in connec-
tion with the truth in lending program, be increas ed from $80 to $95 
per day. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Salary increases, effective July 14, 1968 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Office of the Secretary 
Carolyn A. Bickel, Clearing Assistant 
$ 6,137 
$ 6,342 
Research and Statistics 
Susan W. Burch, Economist 
Linda 0. Griffith, Research Assistant 
Milo 0. Peterson, Economist 
14,407 
15,841 
6,734 
6,959 
14,407 
14,857 
Examinations 
Edward W. Healey, Assistant Federal 
Reserve Examiner 
Louis W. Zidek, Senior Federal Reserve 
Examiner 
14,857 
8,861 
15,307 
9,130 
Personnel Administration 
Gary P. Cochran, Personnel Technician 
Elizabeth Crawford, Stenographer 
8,054 
4,995 
8,323 
5,161 

7/12/68 
-11-
Salary increases, effective July 14, 1968 (continued) 
Name and title 
Division 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Administrative Services 
Wesley B. Collins, Photographer (Offset) 
$7,550 
$7,779 
Johnny Samuel Fox, Jr., Chauffeur (Station 
5,179 
5,450 
Wagon) 
Josephine M. Gutridge, Charwoman 
3,776 
3,902 
Nathan L. Hunter, Driver 
4,466 
4,615 
Clayton B. Stinson, Assistant Head Messenger 
5,327 
5,493 
Office of the Controller 
Jean S. Barber, Supervisor, Payroll and 
7,859 
8,084 
Disbursing 
Data Processing 
Kenneth L. Johnson, Graphic Illustrator 
5,161 
5,565 
Clarence W. Woods, Chart Machine Operator 
5,161 
5,565 
("Trainee" deleted from title) 
Xransfers 
Helen J. Miller, from the position of Statistical Clerk in the 
Divi sion of Research and Statistics to the position of Statistical 
Clerk in the Division of Data Processing, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $5,161, effective July 28, 1968. 
Jane E. Savage, from the position of Clerk-Typist in the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration to the position of Clerk-Typist in 
the Division of Research and Statistics, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $4,108, effective July 14, 1968. 
On July 10, 11, and 12, 1968, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as reflected in the 
following items, copies of which are 
attached as indicated: 

sJ'O O-'l 
7/12/68 
-12-
On July 10, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving the appointment of Charles A. Wooding 
as assistant examiner. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Union County Trust Company, Elizabeth, 
New Jersey, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Summit. 
On July 11, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
approving the appointment of Ronald J. Tuzik 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
approving the appointment of Earle R. Reutter as 
assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
approving the des ignation of 44 employees as special 
assistant examiners for the purpose of participating 
in the 1968 examination of Commerce Trust Company, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
approving the appointment of Tommy Odell Dean 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
regarding the application of Joy State Bank, Joy, 
Illinois, for continuation of deposit insurance 
after withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Letter to Bloomfield State Bank, Bloomfield, 
Indiana, approving an investment in bank premises. 
Item No. 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 

7/12/68 
-13-
' ' 
' 
}0n July 12, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Item No. 
Letter to The Bank of Edwardsville, Edwardsville, 
16 
Illinois, approving an investment in bank premises. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Union Bond & Mortgage Company, Port 
17 
Angeles, Washington, granting an extension of 
time within which to acquire additional shares 
of The First American National Bank of Port 
Townsend, Port Townsend, Washington, Forks 
State Bank, Forks, Washington, and Bank of 
Sequim, Sequim, Washington. 

< A jT* Y— f* 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E -
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 12, 1968. 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
'-U 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of June 26, 1968, the Board of Governors grants con-
sent for your Corporation to purchase and hold additional 
shares of Compania Financiera Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A., 
Quito, Ecuador, at a cost of approximately US$37,000^ pro-
vided the shares are acquired within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
•. - •. 
S'V'JUi 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be made 
within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your Corporation, 
Continental International Bank, and Continental Illinois 
National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
cc'u I 
COutI 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I T E M NO 
2 
a F T H E 
7/12/68* 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 12, 1968. 
Mr. John Home, Chairman, 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board, 
101 Indiana Avenue, Northwest, 
Washington, D. C. 20552 
Dear Mr. Home: 
As you know, the Board's research staff is engaged in a 
continuing staff research program on the role of bank and nonbank finan-
cial intermediaries in the savings process. The program involves analyses 
°f individual competitive markets for savings, as well as comparisons 
o f aggregate flows. 
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation have been very helpful to us by providing both 
aggregate and individual institution data. Quite recently, for example, 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board permitted us to copy the data tapes 
from your recent rate surveys, and agreed to extend this permission to 
future surveys. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has permitted 
U s to do the same with their rate information for mutual savings banks. 
In order to pursue our research efforts relating rate develop-
ments to the financial position of individual institutions, we would 
greatly appreciate it if you would permit our staff to make copies of 
y°ur data tapes of balance sheet and income statements for individual 
insured savings and loan associations. Data for six month intervals 
since 1965 would be required, and it is our hope that such information 
c°uld be made available at subsequent six month intervals. 
We can assure you that these individual association data will 
treated as highly confidential and be used only by members of the 
Board's staff. If you feel it preferable, the names of institutions 
could be erased from the tapes given us and appropriate codes could be 
substituted. We will be able to supply blank tapes for copying, and 
a H research results using these data will be made available to your 
staff. 

Mr. John Home. 
-2-
' -. •.'•;> 
•; 
-v• 
; 
i «>f» i i'i: v • , : 
Should the Federal Home Loan Bank Board agree to this request-
or should there be any questions about it--we suggest that your research 
staff contact Mr. Ettin of the Board's Capital Markets Section. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
7/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C 0 R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 12, 1968. 
Dear sir: 
imp 
^ 
B o a r d would appreciate having a capsule report of your 
the r
88?-0ns concerning the current situation and near-term outlook in 
REARHUDENTLAL 
MORT8ASE market in your District, to be forwarded to 
n t h e Board not later than Friday, August 2. 
sa 
I n o r d e r t o P a r a l l e l a similar Federal Home Loan Bank survey 
l n t e r < 8 8 a° d l 0 a n a 8 S 0 c l a t t 0 n s » y°ur report should reflect informal 
lendpV 
8 W l t h S° m e <P e r h aP s 1 5 t 0 25) representative bank and nonbank 
t ^ er 8 i n your District other than savings and loan associations--
atid m COnttnercial banks, mutual savings banks, life insurance companies, 
the f f j 8 ® ^ companies. These interviews should elicit responses to 
in i 
U o w i n 8 questions which are virtually identical to those asked 
aucti3t F e b r u a r y ' s survey, except for a new question on FNMA's weekly 
l0n
 
0n* Interviews may be conducted at any time after mid-July, so 
inrff a S 9uminaries of the findings reach the Board by the deadline 
Seated above. 
The questions to be asked are as follows: 
y0lJr 
1 • (For all respondents.) How would you best characterize 
and P y e a e n t volume of new commitments being made on residential (home 
^ulti-family combined) mortgage loans? 
(a) substantially above the volume a year 
a8°5 (b) moderately above the volume a year ago; 
(c) about the same as a year ago; (d) moderately 
below the volume a year ago; (e) substantially 
below the volume a year ago. 
expe 
2. (For commercial banks and savings banks.) What do you 
to k. y o u r n G t savings inflow (i.e., new savings minus withdrawals) 
e over the next three months? 

26 60 
-2-
(a) substantially above the inflow for the 
same period last year; (b) moderately above the 
inflow for the same period last year; (c) about 
the same as last year; (d) moderately below the in-
flow for the same period last year; (e) substantially 
below the inflow for the same period last year. 
3. (For life insurance companies.) 
A. What do you expect your cash flow potentially avail-
able for investment In residential mortgages will be over the 
next three months? 
(a) substantially above the volume for the same 
period last year; (b) moderately above the vol-
ume for the same period last year; (c) about the 
same as last year; (d) moderately below the volume 
for the same period last year; (e) substantially 
below the volume for the same period last year. 
B. In making this estimate, what are your expectations 
a s to policy loan demand? 
(a) below the level for the same period last 
year; (b) about the same as last year; (c) mod-
erately above the level for the same period last 
year; (d) substantially above the level for the 
same period last year. 
ill' ~ «> 
ti0 
(For all respondents.) Taking into account your expecta-
VQIu
8 ab°ut the availability of funds, how would you characterize the 
O 
new residential (home and multi-family combined) mortgage 
commitments that you expect to make over the next three months? 
(a) substantially above the volume of new 
commitments for the same period last year; 
(b) moderately above the volume of new commit-
ments for the same period last year; (c) about 
the same as last year; (d) moderately below the 
volume of new commitments for the same period 
last year; (e) substantially below the volume 
of new commitments for the same period last year. 
^ma 
(For all respondents.) How would you evaluate the present 
m0tt
nd (by prospective home buyers and home builders combined) for 
8age loans at current interest rates and terms? 

-3-
(a) demand substantially exceeds mortgage 
funds available; (b) demand moderately exceeds 
mortgage funds available; (c) demand is just 
about In balance with mortgage funds available; 
(d) demand falls moderately short of mortgage 
funds available; (e) demand falls substantially 
short of mortgage funds available. 
6. How would you evaluate the influence of the weekly FNMA 
rcgage auctions 
on the movement of yields on new residential mortgage 
c°mmltments In your local market? 
(a) the influence of the FNMA auctions on 
local yield movements has been substantial; 
(b) the influence of the FNMA auctions on local 
yield movements has been moderate; (c) there has 
been little, if any, influence of the FNMA auctions 
on local yield movements, in view of other market 
considerations. 
. 
After surveying all respondents, please summarize your impres-
°ns of typical District conditions in brief narrative form, indicating 
y marked differences among types of lenders or properties and any 
unusual features of interest. Also, please take each question 
turn and indicate, where appropriate, the total number of respondents 
Th 
^-yP6 that chose each of the various multiple-choice answers. 
e reports for all Districts will be tabulated and summarized by the 
^ard'8 staff, along with the findings of the Federal Home Loan Banks, 
r distribution in the Green Book supplement of August 9. (For your 
m 
e n c e purposes, the survey made last February was summarized in 
e Green Book attachment of February 28.) Survey replies should be 
n t to the Secretary's Office; meanwhile, questions regarding the 
Urvey should be addressed to Mr. Robert Fisher at the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
T O THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
7/12/68 
'V,of cow •. 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 19, 1968. 
Dr. Dan M. McGill, 
1337 South Lafayette Street, 
Denver, Colorado 80210. 
Dear Dr. McGill: 
With further reference to Mr. Sherman's letter to 
you dated July 12, 1968, the Board has authorized an arrange-
ment with you for reviewing certain aspects of the Retirement 
System of the Federal Reserve Banks, such arrangement to 
cover services you may be called upon to perform between now 
and the end of the current calendar year. The general scope 
of the initial work to be done under this assignment has been 
conveyed to you by Governor Maisel by telephone. Payment is 
to be at the rate of $200. per day plus necessary expenses 
incurred by you, including but not limited to round-trip trans-
portation from Denver to Washington. 
If this is satisfactory, it will be appreciated if 
you will sign and return the enclosed copy of this letter-
contract . 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Accepted. 
Dan M. McGill. 

BOARD DF G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
7/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 19, 1968. 
The Honorable Fred M. Vinson, Jr., 
Assistant Attorney General, 
Criminal Division, 
Department of Justice, 
Washington, D. C. 
20530 
Dear Mr. Vinson: 
This acknowledges your letter of July 3, 1968, to 
Chairman Martin on the subject of an investigation conducted by 
the Criminal Division and several of the Federal investigative 
agencies into the reported influence exercised by organized crime 
over certain businesses and individuals in the city of Buffalo. 
You advise of the receipt from reliable sources of information pur-
porting to show influence exerted by interests connected with the 
Cosa Nostra on three banks in Buffalo, New York, with respect to 
loans made to persons and business entities identified in your 
letter. In aid of a request for the Board's cooperation in your 
effort to determine whether there is any substance to the reports 
received, you ask that members of your staff be permitted to review 
the reports of examination of the Manufacturers and Traders Trust 
Company, Buffalo, New York, prepared by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York from January 1962 to date, as well as any reports or alle-
gations that have come to the Board's attention concerning criminal 
influence in the three banks named in your letter. 
Regarding your latter request, the Board is not in 
possession of any reports or allegations of the nature you describe 
with respect to any of the three banks. 
In a telephone discussion of this matter with Mr. Nathaniel 
E. Kossack, your First Assistant, Mr. Thomas J. O'Connell, the Board's 
Deputy General Counsel, advised of the Board's desire to cooperate 
with the Criminal Division in its reported investigation, and of the 
Board's action in granting your request for access to the reports of 
examination in question. 
Mr. Kossack stated agreement to Mr. O'Connell's 
suggestion that your representatives study the reports of examination 
at the Board's offices. For your information, the Board does not have 

£664 
The Honorable Fred M. Vinson, Jr. 
-2-
a copy of the examination report of the Manufacturers and Traders 
Trust Company for the year 1962. However, a copy of the same has 
been requested of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and will be 
available, for your staff's review, together with reports of examin-
ation of that bank for the years 1963 through 1967. Our review of 
the 1963-1967 reports of examination reveal no mention of loans to 
the persons or business entities mentioned in your letter. However, 
we are advised that the line cards (cards that contain summarized 
data of all loans of a pre-determined size without regard to classi-
fication of the loans) for the 1967 report of examination prepared 
at the time of the examination do reflect a loan to Nathan Benderson 
and wife, jointly, and a loan to Benderson Development Company that 
is guaranteed by Nathan Benderson. In addition, the line cards re-
lating to the 1967 examination of Manufacturers and Traders Trust 
Company reflect that Lawrence Reger had executed a continuing 
guarantee for a line of credit to a land development company not 
mentioned in your letter. In view of the possible relevance of these 
lines of credit to your current investigation, we have asked the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York to forward to the Board copies of 
the line cards mentioned. 
It is suggested that your representative contact 
Mr. Hugh J. Maguire of the Board's Division of Supervision and 
Regulation (Code 147, Ext. 420) to arrange a mutually convenient 
date for examination of the materials mentioned. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

if* 
iO'OO.J 
Item No. 7 
7/12/68 
For release in morning papers 
July 12 1968. 
of Monday, July 15, 1968. 
The Board of Governors has announced a reorganization, 
effective July 14, 1963, of staff functions involving principally 
two of the divisions of its staff. Pursuant to this reorganization 
the Division of Examinations will be known as the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation while the Division of Bank Operations 
will become the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation, of which 
Frederic Solomon is the Director, is being assigned the responsi-
bilities relating to securities credit regulation and truth-in-lending 
regulation that at the moment are being carried out under his direc-
tion by a staff task force. The Division will continue to coordinate 
the commercial bank supervisory functions of the Federal Reserve 
ystem and to review examinations of State member banks by the 
ederal Reserve Banks, to administer Regulation F relating to 
securities of State member banks, and to process for action by the 
Hoard applications relating to such matters as bank mergers, bank 
Elding companies, branches, and foreign banking corporations. 
Examination of the Federal Reserve Banks, including rela-
ionships with the Audit Departments of those Banks, is being assigned 
o the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations in order to unify 
he responsibility at staff level for Board supervision of the Reserve 
anks. Staff presently associated with these activities, including 
harles C. Walcutt, Assistant Director, and Lloyd M. Schaeffer, • 
Jjhief Federal Reserve Examiner, will transfer to the Division of 
ederal Reserve Bank Operations. Mr. Ualcutt will have supervisory 
responsibility for these functions in Washington, and the actual 
examinations of the Reserve Banks will continue to be conducted 
under the direction of Mr. Schaeffer. The Division of Federal 
eserve Bank Operations, of which John R. Farrell is the Director, 
IK 
a l s ° c o n t i n u c t o perform the duties heretofore assigned to 
the Division of Bank Operations. 
Tynan Smith, Associate Adviser in the Division of Research 
^nd Statistics, has been assigned temporarily as Acting Assistant 
irector of the Division of Supervision and Regulation with 
responsibility for truth-in-lending regulation. 
(more) 

Janet Hart, presently Senior Attorney in the Legal Division, 
has been named Assistant Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation with responsibility for securities credit regulation. 
John N. Lyon, presently Supervisory Review Examiner in 
the Division of Examinations, has been appointed Assistant Director 
of the Division of Supervision and Regulation with responsibility 
for bank holding company matters. 
Miss Hart (Mrs, Harry A. Sylvester) is a graduate of 
Swarthmore College (1937) and Duke University School of Law (1954), 
where she was first in her graduating class and elected to the Order 
of the Coif. Following graduation from law school, she was employed 
in the New York and Washington offices of Stevenson, Paul, Rifkind, 
Wharton and Garrison. Miss Hart was employed by the Board in 1958 
as an attorney and has been with this agency since that time, except 
for an absence for about a year while in Mexico. She is currently 
a Senior Attorney, and has been assigned to the Task Force on Securi-
ties Credit Regulation since that unit was created early this year. 
Mr. Lyon was born in Washington, D. C. He holds BCS 
and MCS degrees from Southeastern University in Washington, and is 
a graduate of the Stonier Graduate School of Banking. Mr. Lyon was 
employed by the Board of Governors in 1941. He entered military 
service in June 1942, returning to the Board's employ in February 
*946. His service in the Division of Examinations began in 1952, 
with assignment in the bank holding company activities area. 
Mr. Lyon has held his present position as Supervisory Review 
Examiner since 1967. 

^OfGOw-. 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 
7/12/68 
/ O O t i 
7 
Hure^V 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
f 
i 
A?; 
• 
July 15, 1968 
Mr. John W. Whalen, Jr. , 
Electrical Engineer, D.C., 
Department of Highways and Traffic, 
Government of the District of Columbia, 
Washington, D. C. 
20004 
Dear Mr. Whalen: 
This will acknowledge your letter of July 9, 1968, 
confirming your Mr. Reintzel's telephone conversation with 
Mr. Shepardson, in which he advised of the existence of a D. C. 
emergency fire and police communications cable in the Chesapeake 
and Potomac Telephone Company duct in "C" Street between 20th 
and 21st Streets, N.W., which is being relocated in connection 
with the construction of tunnels connecting the present Federal 
Reserve Building and its proposed new building on the north side 
of "C" Street. 
Your letter states that the estimated cost of installing 
and splicing new cable in the proposed Chesapeake and Potomac Tele-
pone Company duct bank and the removal of the existing cable will 
be $1,500. 
• 
The Board hereby authorizes you to proceed with the 
relocation of the cable described in your letter as expeditiously 
as possible, with the understanding that the cost of relocation 
will be billed to and paid by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Vv 
> 
... 
• .vb-'X'-
The Board hopes to begin construction on this project 
no later than January 1, 1969. It understands that the Telephone 
Company is proceeding with plans for the installation of its new 
duct at the present time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Item No 
7/12/68 
RESERVE SYSTEM 
July 10, 1968 
PlDERIT - NEW YORK 
^urlet July 8, 1968, Acting Director, Division of Examinations, on 
ft;}*:. i 
behalf Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves appoint-
ment of Charles A. Wooding as assistant examiner for Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, effective date of this telegram. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
jWJ & v * . 
• . f } 
. • 
' ' 
-
FORRESTAL 
}1. 
• Oo 
- 
. . 
• . . 
. . 
,, 
m ; 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL 
WASHINGTON 

o ' •» g 
/CO 
Item No. 9 
7/12/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E BANK OF NEW 
YORK 
N E W Y O R K , N . V . 
10045 
AREA COO€ 213 732-B700 
July 10, 
1968 
Raymond W. Bauer 
R e s i d e n t 
Union County Trust Company 
Broad Street 
Elizabeth, New Jersey 
07207 
D e&r Mr. Bauer: 
We refer to your letter dated July 3> 1968, requesting 
extension of the time within which your bank may establish a 
branch at 295-299 Morris Avenue, Summit, New Jersey, as approved 
by the Board of Governors on August 3> 1966. 
Since that time 
^here has been one extension of time, which expires August 3> 
1968 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting 
Ul*der delegated authority, has approved your request and extends 
February 3 , 
1 9 6 9 , the time within which your bank may establish 
a branch at the above location. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch is 
6 stabli shed and opened for business, giving the effective date of 
op 
ening, the name, if any, by which it will be known, and the 
cial postal address, including the zip code number. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing 
returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert 7C. Thoman 
Assistant Vice President 
osure 
/ » 

l/./'i.i'' • 
• v 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
''t 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
/O D i ">J 
Item No. 10 
7/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
•is. 
July 12, 1968 
' v .1 ' . 
,'i I 
-
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of July 8, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Ronald J. 
Tuzik as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston. Please advise the effective date of the appoint-
ment. 
m-
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal. 
Assistant Secretary. 

/CO 1 1 
~v 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 11 
7/12/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 12, 1968 
it?, 
; 
M<1, " i 
Mr. H. W. Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of July 9, 1968, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Earle R. Reutter as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Please 
advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2672 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
7/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 12, 1968 
M. J. Swords, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dea r Mr. Swords: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of July 8, 
•|-968, the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the designation of 
each of the following employees as a special assistant examiner for the 
federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City for the purpose of participating in the 
i968 examination of Commerce Trust Company, Kansas City, Missouri: 
Cable, Willard 
Cahill, Robert 
Carr, Gordon 
Cockrell, Paul E. 
DeMarea, Michael, J. Jr. 
Dewey, Keith 
Elliott, Jerry 
Fraser, Sidney K. 
Gaston, Lee 
Hankings, William 
Hughes, Wm. M. 
Hutton, Arthur J., Jr. 
Kurek, Richard M. 
Lee, Larry R. 
McKee, Hugh 
Neville, William 
Novak, Frank J. 
Pearson, Layton 
Peters, Kermit R. 
Pope, Joseph M. 
Rogers, Guy 
Searle, Joseph 
Shewmaker, Harold 
Shreve, Jon T. 
Shull, Keith 
Slover, Don 
Spurlock, John B. 
Stanley, Billy R. 
Tindall, Keith 
Trimble, Harry B. 
Tuggle, Jesse E. 
Walker, Lawrence 
Wangler, Arthur 
Wisniewski, Chester 
Wray, Jack 
Bramble, Gladys M. 
Hirsch, Catherine 
Hisey, Betty 
Johannes, Mo1lie 
Johnson, Aileen 
Lynn, Mary 
Norris, Dorothy M. 
Polfer, Edna 
Smart, Dorothy J. 
It is noted that these designations will be terminated immediately 
uPon completion of the examination. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

V 
2673 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 13 
7/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 11, 1968 
Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
m; 
'?M>'" y 
I '-
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of July 8, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Tommy Odell 
Dean as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas. Please advise if the appointment is not made effective 
on July 16, 1968, as planned. 
Very truly yours, 
|r 
•Uvsv 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
i 4! 
•hV 

BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
I t em No. 14 
J & Z O y ^ . 
O F T H E 
7/12/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 12, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of July 8, 1968, con-
cerning the application of Joy State Bank, Joy, Illinois, for 
continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal from membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations has stated, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors, that there have been no corrective programs urged upon 
the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, 
and there are no programs that the Acting Director would advise be 
incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank to membership in 
the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

o f-ir-
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 15 
7/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 12, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Bloomfield State Bank, 
Bloomfield, Indiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves under the provisions of Section 24A of the Federal 
Reserve Act, an investment in bank premises by Bloomfield State 
Bank, Bloomfield, Indiana, of $66,400 for the construction of 
an addition to present banking quarters. This approved invest-
ment supersedes a $50,000 investment which was approved in 1967 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis under delegated authority. 
It is understood that consideration is being given to all means 
of strengthening your bank's capital position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST. LOUIS 
P . O . B O X 4 4 2 
T . 
„ 
T . 
Item No. 16 
S T . 
L O U I S , 
M I S S O U R I 
6 3 1 6 6 
7/12/68 
July 12, 1968 
Board of Director* 
Iht M 
of Gdwardsvilla 
Main and Purcall St roots 
Edvardeviile, Illinois 
Gontl< 
is 
oa t>«luii£of tMsBooni oKCov^nora, acting undar 
delegated authority, t&U 
baa a^*r"v»d, undar tha pro* 
visions of Section 2AA o^the Federal Sb*erve Act, your re-
quaat for an edditt nal iov*et«®*t in benk preoiaea by The 
Bank of EdwordaVUloy EdvordaHU^ Illinois, of $175,000 
for tha purposa o^ ourehaainC/i t^nct of land approximately 
2 1/2 blocks aoutlamt oi.yorir nTee«*t lt>catiou, for tha pur-
posa of constructing a\wo* benk building and drive-in 
facilities tl**e n. 
v ^ 
/ / 
t 
Vary truly youra, 
VHl:aar 
& 
0. 0. Wyrick 
Vice Praaidont 
CC: Secretary, Board of Govarnora, Washington, D. C. 20551 
Honorabla Roland W. Blaha, Commissioner of Banks and 
Truat Companies, Springfield, Illinoia 

-OO • 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N rsANonoo. CALIFORNIA 04190 
Item No. 17 
7/12/68 
July 12, 1968 
Lii... -aL.v 
>.v:, :. . 
Mr. J. 1. Phillips, Vic® Preeldent, 
Union Bond & Mortgage Company, 
First National Bank Building, 
Port Angalas, Washington 98362. 
bi ma 
iacd 
r •. .c \>;n • • : 
Dear Mr. Phillipss 
Tour lattar da tad June 27^b968l. sddrsssad 
to Mr. Kannath A. Kenyon, DeputyjWcretary, Board of 
Governors of tha Padaral Reserve System, requesting a 
60-day axtansion of time within which to c^splete tha 
acquisition of additional sharee of thr^Koanks, pur-
suant to tha Board's orders of jVma V*\ 1968, has baan 
rafarrad to thls^bink fdr reply. V ^ 
On bahalf of tha Board of XJovaraors, acting 
undar delegated authority, this Bank approves tha 
ra^ugatad 60-day extension tjo November 24, 1968. 
/ 
It will be appreciated If you will advise 
tha Board of Govsrnorr, In writing, through this bsnk, 
when the acquisitions approved have been consunssted. 
v 
v y 
Very truly yours, 
(SIGNED) A. N. M E R R ITT 
* 
A. B. Merrltt, 
Plrst flee President. 
