MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 18, 1972 

13C6 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 18, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 

1307 
5/18/72 
-11-
Corisent calendar. The Board approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Comptroller of the Currency a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of The Johnstown Bank, Johnstown, Ohio, 
into The First National Bank of Newark, Newark, Ohio. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
Subsidiaries of BancOhio Corporation hold over 40 per 
cent of the deposits in the Columbus banking market. 
Consum-
mation of the proposed merger would increase this concentration 
and permit BancOhio Corporation to obtain geographical coverage 
in one of the few remaining areas in the Columbus banking 
market where it does not now operate. 
It is concluded that the 
overall competitive effect of the proposal would be adverse. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to First National City 
Corporation, New York, New York, a bank holding company, granting consent 
to the indirect acquisition of shares of Citilease, Inc., a company to 
be incorporated in the State of Delaware. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved, Governor Robertson dissenting, a letter to 
The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, New York, 
authorizing the establishment of an Edge corporation in Miami, Florida, 
to be named Chase Manhattan International Banking Corporation (Miami). 
A copy of the letter, which transmitted a preliminary permit, is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Virginia Commonwealth 
Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, a bank holding company, granting 
consent to the acquisition of shares of Continental Discount Corporation, 
La Sarre, Quebec, Canada. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 

1308 
5/18/72 
-3-
r » 
• f 
' -
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Continental Illinois 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, a bank holding company, granting consent 
to the indirect acquisition of shares of Western Builders Capital Limited, 
i . S .. '.I, ., * # 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
dr • 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First Commer-
cial Banks Inc., Albany, New York, to acquire shares of Kingston Trust 
^ouivi 
. 
' 
Company, Kingston, New York, and authorized the issuance of an order 
i * ...... 
< 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board approved unanimously the appointment of Mr. Monroe 
Kimb 
rel, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, as a member 
°f the System Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism. 
Mr. Kimbrel would replace Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, who was to retire on June 1, 1972. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Hearing regarding American Security and Trust Company. On April 6, 
1^72, the Board decided that a hearing should be held to ascertain whether 
American Security and Trust Company or American Security Corporation, 
, r. . 
. 
. 
both of Washington, D. C., had violated the Bank Holding Company Act by 
(:> 
• • ' , ' . ..• 
. .. 
• : ' • •• •• 
. • . : • 
' 
. 
acquiring and retaining shares of Fairfax County National Bank, Falls 
.. ; , . , 
. 
• . . 
: 
. , 
; 
- - 
' ? 
. ••••,. 
Church, Virginia. With a memorandum dated May 15, 1972, the Legal Division 
Presented a draft notice of hearing that it recommended the Board publish. 
W 
V 
• ; 
: — . ..... . 
; ; • <.,\. 
. . . 
• • 
• . • 
' t • 
<>: • 
The draft notice reflected that the hearing examiner was to write a rec-
ommended decision rather than an initial decision. 

1309 
5/18/72 
-11-
The Board unanimously approved the staff recommendation. A copy 
of the notice is attached under Item No. 6, along with the press release 
issued. 
Pending legislation. On May 16, 1972, the Board considered a 
draft of letter to the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs expressing the Board's views regarding two bills: S. 3001, which 
would establish a Federal Financing Bank; and S. 3215, which would expand 
the market for municipal securities. With a memorandum dated May 17, 1972, 
the Division of Research and Statistics presented a redraft of the letter 
reflecting comments that had been made at the May 16 meeting. 
After a discussion during which several changes were agreed upon, 
the Board approved the sending of the letter in a final form satisfactory 
to Chairman Burns. A copy of the letter in the form sent to the Chairman 
of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is attached 
as Item No. 7. 
Hawkeye Bancorporation. On May 4, 1972, the Board considered the 
applications of Hawkeye Bancorporation, Des Moines, Iowa, to acquire 
shares of the following Iowa banks: 
(1) Camanche State Bank, Camanche; 
(2) State Bank and Trust, Council Bluffs; (3) First Federal State Bank, 
°es Moines; (4) Kellogg Savings Bank, Kellogg; (5) Jasper County Savings 
Bank, Newton; (6) The Clay County National Bank of Spencer, Spencer; and 
(7) The Citizens National Bank of Boone, Boone. Documentation for the 
May 4 meeting included memoranda from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation dated March 13 and April 20, 1972, and a memorandum from the 

1310 
5/18/72 
-11-
Legal Division dated April 26, 1972. Primarily as a result of the diver-
gent recommendations of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Board's 
staff with respect to the first six applications, the Board had suggested 
that a meeting be arranged between the applicant, the Reserve Bank, and 
the Board's staff to discuss several aspects of the applications. 
Such 
a meeting was held at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago on May 10. 
In a memorandum dated May 16, 1972, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section summarized the matters 
discussed with applicant at the May 10 meeting, and noted that the Chicago 
Bank 
now recommended approval of the applications, excluding the Camanche 
and Kellogg banks. The Board's staff recommended approval of all of the 
aPplications, with the exception of either the Jasper or Kellogg banks. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation believed that for competitive 
reasons it would not be advisable to allow acquisition of both banks, and 
favored acquisition of the Jasper bank since it was a larger institution 
ar*d therefore its earnings could make a greater contribution toward 
strengthening the financial condition of the applicant. 
After a discussion relating to several aspects of the applications, 
the Board unanimously approved the applications for acquisition of all of 
the banks except that for Kellogg Savings Bank, which was unanimously 
^ni^ed. 
It was understood that appropriate implementing documents would 
prepared for the Board's consideration. 

1311 
5/18/72 
-11-
Continued service of bank officer. The Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation and the Banking Commissioner of the State of New Jersey had 
requested the Board's recommendation whether the president of a State 
member bank in New Jersey, who had been convicted of a crime involving 
dishonesty or breach of trust, should be permitted to serve as a director, 
officer, or employee of the bank. A subsidiary issue was whether the 
Board should prohibit the individual from participating in any manner in 
the conduct of the affairs of the bank under the Financial Institutions 
Supervisory Act of 1966. 
In a memorandum dated May 9, 1972, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation stated that the Board should recommend against the FDIC 
or the New Jersey Banking Commissioner granting consent to the president's 
Service as a director, officer, or employee of the bank. 
In addition 
the Division recommended that, as long as the FDIC or the State Banking 
Commissioner did not permit the person to serve as a director, officer, 
°r employee of the bank, it would not be necessary for the Board to take 
action against the bank to request it to sever additional connections 
with the person. A draft letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
attached. 
The Board unanimously approved the letter, a copy of which is 
attached as Item No. 8. It was understood that should the FDIC permit 
the president's service, this matter would be considered further by the 
Board. 

1312 
5/18/72 
-11-
Bank of Suffolk County. In a memorandum dated May 12, 1972, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the appli-
cation of Bank of Suffolk County, Stony Brook, New York, to issue subor-
dinated capital notes subject to the following special conditions: 
(1) 
the bank should not pay any cash dividends upon its capital stock without 
the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; and 
(2) 
without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, the bank should not materially increase above March 31, 1972, 
levels, the aggregate of any of its assets other than cash, due from 
banks, Federal funds sold, or short-term securities of the U.S. Treasury 
o r agencies, except that loans and discounts might be increased to not 
more than $11 million if the total of loans and discounts and municipal 
securities did not exceed 60 per cent of deposits at the time of such an 
increase. 
Discussion developed general support for the staff's recommendation 
that applicant refrain from paying dividends, although Governor Robertson 
V-t: 
i. 
, • 
' 
• 
-> 
' 
• 
'• 
: 
- 
' -
e^pressed concern that stating the prohibition in a letter might be 
undesirable. 
Particular concern was expressed with respect to the debt to 
equity ratio that applicant would incur as a result of the issuance of 
the capital notes. The ensuing discussion developed support for the 
Su8gestion that applicant add equity or issue a convertible capital 
debenture rather than capital notes. 

1313 
5/18/72 
-8-
Therefore it was understood that staff would inform applicant of 
the Board's suggested course of action, and that the matter would be 
considered further subsequent to applicant's response to that suggestion. 
Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company. On May 9, 1972, the 
Board considered whether Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company, Boston, 
Massachusetts, was a bank, and therefore its parent a bank holding 
company, for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act. At that time the 
Board approved a letter submitted by the staff concluding that Boston 
Safe was not a bank for purposes of the Act, with the understanding that 
changes in the letter would be made by the staff in consultation with 
Governors Robertson and Mitchell. 
It was also understood that if there 
was a strong feeling by either of them that the letter should include a 
condition that Boston Safe terminate its activity in the Federal funds 
market, the matter would be considered further by the Board. 
It developed 
that Governor Mitchell continued to believe that the sale of Federal funds 
constituted the making of a commercial loan for purposes of the Act, and, 
therefore, this question was again before the Board. 
In a memorandum dated May 15, 1972, the Legal Division presented 
a revised draft of letter with inserts reflecting the staff's view that 
the sale of Federal funds did not constitute the making of commercial loans 
for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act, and also reflecting the 
alte rnative view of Governor Mitchell. 

1314 
5/18/72 
-9-
After discussion, the Board approved the letter to Boston Safe 
Deposit and Trust Company in the form proposed by the staff, Governors 
Mitchell and Brimmer dissenting on the grounds that the ruling could 
have undesirable precedential effects. A copy of the letter is attached 
a s Item No. 9. 
Management consulting. When service as investment adviser was 
added to the list of activities permissible for bank holding companies, 
effective in June 1971, the Board stated that that activity did not 
include acting as management consultant, but that possible addition of 
the latter to the list of permissible activities was being considered. 
Today's agenda called for consideration of two applications that involved 
that question, namely, the application of First Commerce Corporation, 
New Orleans, Louisiana, to acquire shares of W. R. Smolkin & Associates, 
Inc., and its wholly-owned affiliate, Smolkin-Siegel Corporation, also 
of New Orleans; and the application of Marine Midland Banks, Inc., Buffalo, 
New York, to acquire shares of Carter H. Golembe Associates, Inc., 
Washington, D. C. 
In memoranda of May 15, 1972, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section recommended denial of the 
applications. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation did not regard the 
services of the Smolkin organization as permissible under the provision 
o f Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, making service as investment 

1315 
5/18/72 
-10-
adviser a permissible activity. 
(This conclusion extended also to an 
interpretation of that provision currently proposed by the Legal Division, 
which is the subject of a later entry in these minutes.) In the Divi-
sion's judgment, the services were more properly described as management 
consulting, and the Division recommended that that activity not be 
specified as permissible for bank holding companies. 
The Division arrived 
at similar conclusions with respect to the services of Carter H. Golembe 
Associates, except that some of that organization's activities would be 
Permissible under the investment adviser activity provision. 
In a memorandum of May 12, the Banking Markets Section presented 
an analysis on the basis of which it concluded that general management 
consulting was not closely related to banking and that bank holding 
company entry into that activity might have adverse effects, notably the 
Possibility of conflicts of interest, that would not be offset by public 
benefits such as increased convenience or efficiency. 
In a memorandum of May 15, Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Divi-
sion of Research and Statistics, expressed the view that general management 
consulting should not be added to the list of permissible activities 
because it was not a "proper incident to banking" within the meaning of 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. However, he regarded 
Providing management consulting services to banks, bank holding companies, 
-
banking facilities such as clearinghouse and check-processing centers, 
and bank trade associations as a proper incident to banking within the 

1316 
5/18/72 
-11-
weanirig of section 4(c)(8), and he advocated specifying that activity 
as permissible. 
Discussion of the question of general management consulting as 
a permissible activity developed support for the view that bank holding 
company entry into this field involved matters in which banks had no 
Particular expertise and might give rise to undesirable consequences such 
as conflicts of interest. Therefore, the Board agreed, Governor Sheehan 
abstaining, that general management consulting should not be added to the 
list of permissible activities. 
Discussion of bank related management consulting included an 
observation that banks offer management advice to their correspondent banks. 
However, several members of the Board expressed reservations similar to 
those mentioned against general management consulting. 
In voting on the 
" t 
question, Governors Daane and Sheehan abstained, Governor Mitchell voted 
for approval, and Governors Robertson and Brimmer for denial. Chairman 
Burns then noted that since a majority had not been obtained in favor of 
the activity, bank related management consulting as a permissible activity 
failed of approval. 
The application of First Commerce Corporation to acquire shares 
°f W. R. Smolkin & Associates was denied, Governor Sheehan abstaining. 
The application of Marine Midland Banks to acquire shares of 
Carter H. Golembe Associates was denied. Governors Mitchell and Sheehan 
abstaining. 
It was understood that documents to implement these decisions 
1 
4. 
Would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 

1317 
5/18/72 
-11-
Investment adviser activities. Pursuant to a suggestion by 
Governor Robertson, the Legal Division had explored the possibility of 
amending section 225.4(a)(5) of Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, to 
limit investment adviser service by bank holding companies to real estate 
and investment companies and the furnishing of economic or financial 
information. 
In a memorandum dated May 12, 1972, the Division listed 
several alternatives but recommended that instead of amending the regulation 
the Board adopt an interpretation that would clarify the scope of section 
225.4(a)(5). 
During discussion Governor Robertson noted that the substance of 
the interpretation might be included in the regulation. There was agreement 
with his suggestion that he work with the staff to develop such an amendment 
for the Board's consideration. 
duPont Trust. In a memorandum dated April 25, 1972, the Legal 
Division stated that on the basis of available information, it would be 
legally supportable for the Board to initiate an investigation into whether 
the control provisions of Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, were 
applicable to the relationship that existed between the Trustees of the 
Estate of Alfred I. duPont and Florida National Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida. The" Division recommended that the Board advise 
the duPont Trust that the Board had concluded that the facts available to 
it warranted further investigation and consideration of the matter of the 
effectiveness of the Trust's action directed toward divestiture of control 

1318 
5/18/72 
-13-
\ <( „ i1 i ' 
i- > • • j ' , 
of the banks; and the Board had made a preliminary determination that 
i t ; 
the duPont Trust, by virtue of its control relationship with respect to 
Florida National Banks and its banking subsidiaries, continued to be a 
bank holding company and had not divested control of the bank holding 
i (company or its subsidiary banks. A draft letter to the duPont Trust 
was attached. 
During discussion general agreement was expressed with the 
staff's position, although several members expressed reservations regarding 
jv.-.o..,^; "..'>r. ; Ci r 
. ..ucjnaiic 
t<V> ore \<vi<m> oC Cec-
certain information contained in the draft letter, and there was support 
for the suggestion that staff obtain more current and complete information. 
ift!' 
• -*r 
r . . 
h *> • r,r • •-* .-.-•}•!!.' 
f • 
' 
" 
" 
1 • ' 
It was therefore understood that staff would explore the matter 
further and submit another draft letter for the Board's consideration. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland withdrew from the 
meeting at this point. 
There followed comments regarding the general content of discus-
sions that had taken place at the periodic luncheons of available Board 
members and members of the Council of Economic Advisers. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1319 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 1 
5/18/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 18, 1972 
^irst National City Corporation 
Park Avenue 
York, New York 
100zr2 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 22, 1972, the Board 
Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
and Section 22 5.4(f) of Regulation Y, for First National. City Cor-
poration to purchase and hold all of the shares of Citilease, Inc., 
a company to be incorporated in the State of Delaware with a capital 
$1,000. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Sec-
tion 4(c)(13), Citilease, Inc., shall confine its activities to 
international or foreign banking and other international or foreign 
financial operations. 
In this regard, the Board notes that Citilease, 
, intends to establish a branch in Italy and purchase the assets 
the present Italian branch of Citicorp Leasing International ("CLI"). 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Citilease, Inc., 
have no ceiling of its own under the Foreign Credit Restraint 
^togrnm and the foregoing approval is given on condition that any 
^°-eign loans and investments of the Corporation will be made within 
Guidelines as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
Activities of First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
It is understood that the shares of Citilease, Inc., are to 
acquired through your wholly-owned subsidiary, CLI. Your letter of 
*Wch 22 , 1972, did not request a determination that the continued 
holding by your Corporation of the shares of CLI would be appropriate 
under Section 4(c)(13) cf the Act and this consent is not to be con-
strued as constituting such a determination. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1320 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
5/18/72 
• r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S nrriciAL C D I J R K S P U N O E N D C 
TO THr. BOARD 
May 18, 1972 
^he Chase Manhattan Bank 
National Association 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Asso-
ciation and the Organization Certificate, dated March 21, 1972, of 
Chase Manhattan International Banking Corporation (Miami), Miami, 
Florida, and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that 
Corporation to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) 
the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
°rfcahization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers confer cod 
by Section 25(a) until it. has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
c°rtify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capita? stock is held and owned 
ky citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest: in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
Ur>der the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States 
by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by > 
citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
^as b e o n p aid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
Paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription, 
thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment 
o f the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance 
v-'th law. 

1321 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
National Association 
-2-
Your attention is directed to the fact that Chase Manhattan 
International Banking Corporation (Miami) will have no separate base 
u'flder the foreign credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans 
and investments will need to be made under the ceiling of The Chase 
Manhattan Bank, National Association ("CMB"). Accordingly, the 
f°regoing approval is given with the understanding that any foreign 
loans and investment of the Corporation will be made within the 
foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to CMB and its 
affiliates. 
* 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
S Q 5 5 I 
Hay 18, 1972 
Preliminary Permit: 
XT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested 
in it by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, 
has this day approved the Articles of Association and Or-
ganization Certificate dated March 21, 1972, of CHASE MANHATTAN 
INTERNATIONAL BANKING CORPORATION (MIAMI) duly filed with said 
Board of Governors, and that CHASE MANHATTAN INTERNATIONAL 
BANKING CORPORATION (MIAMI) is authorized to exercise such of 
the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are in-
cidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syste 
of a final permit generally to commence business in accordance 
v/ith the provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and 
regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
By 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

'•S-REsfx' 
1323 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 3 
5/18/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
205'Jl 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T C T H E 
G U A R D 
May 18, 1.972 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares 
800 East Main Street 
Richmond, Virginia 
23260 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 15, 1972, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation ("VCB") 
t o purchase and hold all of the outstanding capital stock of 
Continental Discount Corporation ("CDC"), La Sarre, Quebec, Canada, 
a t a total cost of approximately $3,325,654, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
In this 
connection the Board grants permission for VCB to hold indirectly 
ali of the shares of Continental Finance Company ("CFC"), La Sarre, 
Quebec, Canada, and Mesco, Inc. ("Mesco"), Montreal, Canada, and 
4 0 per cent of the shares of Place Convair, Inc., La Sarre, Quebec, 
Canada. 
As subsidiaries of a bank holding company under Sec-
tion 4(c)(13), CDC, CFC and Mesco shall confine their activities 
to international or foreign banking and other international or 
foreign financial operations. 
Place Convair, Inc., shall, confine 
its activities to the holding of premises for CDC and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

©Esaia*^'' 
l i i l p : 
iVlrrrfrVi.it/ ui 
1324 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 3 
5/18/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E B U 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
H O A R D 
May 18, 1972 
Continental Illinois Corporation 
231 South LaSalle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 12, 1972, 
the Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, as amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Reg-
ulation Y 
for Continental Illinois Corporation to purchase 
and hold,'through its subsidiary Builders Financial Company 
Limited, Toronto, Canada, all of the. shares of Western 
Builders Capital Limited ("Western"), Vancouver 
British 
Columbia, Canada,at a cost of approximately $10,000, provided 
such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under 
Section 4(c)(13), Western shall confine its activities to 
international or foreign banking and other international 
or foreign financial operations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1325 
Item NOo 5 
5/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST COMMERCIAL BANKS INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Commercial Banks Inc., Albany, New York, a bank 
folding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
o f Kingston Trust Company, Kingston, New York ('Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a U comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the tenth largest multi-bank holding company and 
the twelfth largest banking organization in New York, controls tx*o 
hanks with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.1 billion, representing 
1/ 
I'l per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
Acquisition of Bank would increase Applicant's control of deposits in 
commercial banks in the State by .1 percentage point; however, Appli-
cant's present Statewide rank would not change. 
Bank, with deposits 
o f $57.5 million, is the fourth largest of 29 banks in the Mid-Hudson 
i/ Unless otherwise noted, total deposits and State rank and share of 
dePosits are as of December 31, 1971. Market rank and share of deposits 
a re as of June 30, 1970. 

1326 
-2-
banking market, approximated by Dutchess, Ulster, and Putnam Counties 
ar*d the Newburgh area of Orange County, controlling 7.2 per cent of 
commercial banks deposits in that market. 
Applicant's nearest subsidiary banking office is located 
aPproximately 25 miles from Bank and neither it nor Applicant's other 
s^bsidiary bank derives a significant amount of loans or deposits from 
bank's area. Moreover, Bank derives less than 1 per cent of its loans 
deposits from the banking districts in which Applicant's subsidiary 
banks operate. Mo significant existing competition would be eliminated 
bV consummation of the proposed acquisition. 
Applicant might enter the Mid-Hudson banking market de novo 
0 r through acquisition of a smaller bank. However, de novo entry is 
^attractive because the market already has a high ratio of banking 
offices to depositors. Acquisition of a smaller bank would not present 
8ignificantly different competitive considerations and might limit 
applicant's ability to compete effectively with the larger holding 
c°mpanies already represented in the market. On the basis of the 
record, no significant potential competition would be foreclosed by 
c°nsummation of the proposal. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are generally satisfactory 
and consistent with approval. Applicant proposes to offer new and improved 
Se*vices through Bank, including international banking, computer services, 

1327 
-3-
^pansion of mortgage financing, expansion of trust services, and underwriting 
and purchasing debt issues of local governments. The expansion of Bank's 
services will provide another competitive alternative for these specialized 
W k i n g services. Accordingly, considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served lend weight toward approval. It is 
^ e Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application Is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
jTvoting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Maisel. 

Item No. 6 
5/18/72 
Kay 18, 1972 
For immediate release 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced that it has ordered a hearing to explore whether the 
American Security and Trust Company or the American Security Corpo-
ration, both in Washington, D. C., controlled two banhs at the same 
time prior to December 31, 1970. 
Prior to that date, holding companies that controlled two 
or more banks were required to register with the Federal Reserve and 
limit their activities to banking and closely related activities. 
In 
the amendments to the Act adopted on December 31, 1970, Congress ex-
panded the law to cover companies and other entities that control only 
one bank. 
The proceeding will be conducted by an examiner who will 
fix a date for the hearing later. Any person desiring to present . 
evidence or otherwise take part in the hearing should file a written 
request with the Board by June 1. 
A copy of the Board's order relating to this matter is 
attached. 

1329 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEII 
[12 CFR Part 225] 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COIIPANIES 
Notice of Hearing Regarding Possible Violation 
of the Bank Holding Company Act 
The Board of Governors has ordered a hearing to be held 
t c ascertain whether American Security and Trust Company ('AS&T") or 
^erican Security Corporation ("ASC,:) violated the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. § 1341 et seq.). 
Prior to the 1970 Amendments, the Act defined "bank holding 
c°mpany" as any company "(1) that directly or indirectly owns, controls, 
° r holds with power to vote 25 per centum or more of the voting shares 
each of two or more banks or of a company that is or becomes a bank 
hiding company by virtue of this Act, or (2) that controls in any manner 
election of a majority of the directors of each of two or more banks." 
Either ASC nor AS&T registered as a bank holding company under the Act 
9 3 it existed prior to the 1970 Amendments or otherwise submitted to 
the strictures of the Act. 
AS&T and ASC are affiliates whose shares are traded in units, 
no share of one company may be transferred without also tranferring 
share of the other company. 
This arrangement was established in 1957. 
subsequent years, ASC made certain acquisitions, including the acqui-
s^tion of 25 per cent or more of the shares of each of three banks; but 
apparently has never owned 25 per cent or more of the shares of each 

-2-
1330 
two or more banks at; the same time. At the present time, ASC owns 
approximately 93 per cent of the shares of Fairfax County National Bank 
( FCNB")9 Falls Church, Virginia, and 24.99 per cent of the shares of 
University National Bank ("UNB"), Rockville, Maryland. 
The Board has ordered the hearing after considering a request 
f°r such action submitted by The Riggs National Bank, Washington, D.C., 
iti 
1 
a letter dated December 10, 1971, which is available for inspection 
arid copying in Room 1020 of the Board's building. 
The principal question to be explored at the hearing is 
lether ASC or AS&T controlled two banks at the same time prior to 
Member 31, 1970, and became a bank holding company under the pro-
v^sions of the Act. It is expected that the focus will be on the 
scions whether, and by what means, ASC or AS&T was able indirectly 
c°ntrol shares of FCNB or UNB„ particularly shares held by officers 
directors of FCNB, AS&T, or ASC, or shares held by AS&T in trust 
t a£ency accounts; and on the circumstances surrounding stock trans-
UNB. 
° n s in May and December, 1970, when ASC traded shares of FCNB and 
The proceedings will be conducted in accordance with sections 
555 
557 of title 5, United States Code. 'Mr. Seymour Wenner has 
designated hearing examiner. The hearing examiner will fix 
th6 1 
ate or dates of the hearing (notice of which will be published), 
8na w., 
make recommendations to the Board, with supporting findings and 
tGason 
on the basis of the hearing and material filed in the proceedings 

1331 
-3-
Any person desiring to give testimony, present evidence, 
or otherwise, participate in these proceedings should file with the 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
B.C. 20551, on or before June 
1, 1972, a w i t ten request containing 
a statement of the nature of the petitioner's interest in the pro-
ceedings, the extent of the participation desired, a summary of the 
matters concerning which petitioner wishes to give testimony or submit 
evidence, and the names and identity of witnesses who propose to 
appear. Requests will be presented to the hearing examiner for his 
determination, and persons submitting them will be notified of his 
decision. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

1332 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L . R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHING! ON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
5/18/72 
f'iALPX^; 
May 18, 1972 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking, 
Housing and Urban A f f a i r s 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Bear M r . 
Chairman: 
We appreciate the opportunity to submit a written statement on two 
bills: S. 3C01, a.bill to establish a Federal Financing Bank, and 
S. 3215, a bill to expand the market for municipal securities. 
The Board strongly supports S. 3001. 
We believe establishment of 
the proposed Federal Financing Bank will, contribute significantly to 
the control and coordination of Federal agency financing and to bette 
integration of the agency programs themselves. 
We would like 
particularly to emphasize the salutary implications for financial 
markets of consolidating the various agency issues into one kind 
security. 
Scale, timing, and uniformity should result in 
deductions in interest costs and improved marketability of agency-
type securities and permit more flexible financing programs. 
•i*he Board notes that the bill does not embrace certain agencics 
that are sponsored by the Federal government, even though financial 
Advantages would seem likely to result from their inclusion. 
We 
believe that the Federal Financing Bank will have a favorable 
experience which may lead Congress a* a later time to make 
°Migations of these Federally sponsored agencies eligible for 
^ank purchase and sale. 
k. 3215 is one of several thoughtful proposals to deal with a widely-
Recognized problem--that of the urgent fiscal pressures experienced 
by State and local governments. 
Under present circumstances, 

.^he Honorable John S p a r k m a n 
^ 3 3 
because of their tax-exempt feature, State and local government 
securities are attractive to a relatively limited group of investors, 
Principally commercial banks, stock insurance companies, and 
individuals with high income, 
Because bank investment policies 
historically have been cyclically sensitive, the market for State 
local government securities has tended to shrink in periods 
of 
monetary and credit restraint and interest rates on such 
.securities have consequently risen sharply in order to attract 
investor groups. 
^ broadening of the market for State and local government securities 
^ould be one of the benefits of S. 3215. 
Additional investors attracted 
the market would be likely to include pension funds, life insurance 
Co**ipanies, mutual savings banks, endowment funds, and a broader 
l?tnge of individuals. 
With a wider group of investors, yields on 
Municipal issues should vary less widely over the business cycle 
the flow of credit to State and local governments would be 
better sustained. 
. 
incentive for State and local governments to issue taxable 
securities woald depend in large part on the size of the subsidy 
*Jayrncnt. 
The fact that there are several proposals to provide 
and local governments with Federal interest subsidy payments 
^ varying levels indicates the complexity of the subsidy question. 
> 
small a subsidy would not provide sufficient incentive for the 
*Ssuance of taxable bonds so long as there is a tax-exempt alternative. 
too large a subsidy could involve excessive Governmental 
^Pense. 
Careful study is required to determine the balance of 
fcftcfits and costs to the nation f r o m the impact on Treasury tax 
*ftc:ei'ptsf subsidy outlays, and the net effect on State and local 
^°Vernment borrowing costs. 
^ * 
Sincerely yours, 
.
.
. 
: 
Arthur F. Burns 

jmeM&Y-
mmrnh.;. 
B O A R D O F 
G U V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2Cb"M 
1334 
Item No. 8 
5/18/72 
A I . I O K E B S 
D R R I C I A L 
I J O H R E S C A N D T N N R 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
May 19, 1972 
SJ 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell 
Senior Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Dear Mr. Campbe11: 
This refers to your letter of January 18, 1972, respecting 
the conviction of Richard S. Mischlich, President and Director, 
Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company, Egg Harbor City, Atlantic County, 
New Jersey, a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, for 
a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust. The conviction is 
final avid no longer subject to further appellate review. 
Mr. Mischlich stands convicted for having violated the 
proscriptions of 18 U.S.C. 1005 for having knowingly caused false 
entries to be made on the books of Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company 
relating to certain accounts of Ariston Canning Co., Inc., which 
accounts were false and fictitious. 
Egg Harbor Bank has requested 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to give its written consent 
to the service of Mr. Mischlich as a director, officer, or employee 
of Bank pursuant to the terms of 12 U.S.C. 1829. A similar request 
has been made by Bank to the State of New Jersey. A question also 
arises under section 202(g)(1) of the Financial Institutions Super-
visory Act of 1966 (12 UcS.C. 1818(g)(1)) as to the position of the 
Board of Governors with respect to Mr. Mischlich's further partici-
pation in any manner in the conduct of the-affairs of Bank in the 
circumstances of Mr. Mischlich's having been convicted of a crime 
involving dishonesty or breach of trust. The FDIC and the State of 
New Jersey have asked for the recommendations of the Board on the 
request of Egg Harbor Bank to them. 
By virtue of the proscriptions of 12 U.S.C. 1829, Egg 
Harbor Bank is subject to a penalty of not more than $100 per day for 
each day in which Mr. Mischlich serves that Bank as a director, 
officer, or employee without the written consent of the FDIC. The 
laws of the State of New Jersey contain a similar prohibition on 

1335 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell 
-2-
service as an officer, director, or employee of Bank in circumstances 
of a conviction of a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust 
in the absence of the written consent of the New Jersey Commissioner 
of Banking (17:9A018.1 New Jersey Stat. Ann.). 
The facts indicate that Mr. Mischlich is not at the present 
time serving as an officer, director, or employee of Egg Harbor Bank; 
and he receives no salary from Egg Harbor Bank and does not attend 
meetings of Bank's Board of Directors. Mr. Mischlich is associated 
with an attorney and a title company which perform various services 
for Egg Harbor Bank, and in connection with such association and the 
functions which he performs, he is compensated by the attorney and 
the title company. 
In view of the recentness and nature of Mr. Mischlich's 
conviction for a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust, the 
Board recommends against the FDIC or the Commissioner of Banking of 
the State of New Jersey granting written consent to Mr. Mischlich to 
serve as a director, officer, or employee of Egg Harbor Bank. In the 
light of the mitigating factors which you point out, as well as those 
set forth in correspondence by Mr. Vergari, the Board believes that 
the prohibitions contained in 12 U.S.C. 1829 and the New Jersey statutes 
referred to will suffice to insulate Egg Harbor Bank from any recurrence 
of similar conduct on the part of Mr. Mischlich for which he has been 
convicted. It, therefore, does not appear necessary to sever Mr. 
Mischlich's indirect relationship with Egg Harbor Bank arising by 
virtue of his association with the referenced attorney and title 
company under the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966. 
We would appreciate if you would forward the views set forth 
herein to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Banking 
Commissioner of the State of New Jersey, the Egg Harbor Bank and 
Trust Company, and to Mr. Richard S. Mischlich. 
Very truly yours, 
n 
^ 
Michael A. Greenspan 
j 
Assistant Secretary 
(•' 

1336 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 9 
5/18/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
May 18, 1972 
Mr. Lee J. Aubrey 
Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Bear Mr. Aubrey: 
The Board has considered certain questions under the Bank 
Holding Company Act involving Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company. 
Please advise that company of the following: 
It is the Board's understanding that Boston Safe Deposit 
and Trust Company ("Boston Safe"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of The 
Boston Company, Inc., is principally engaged in a trust business. 
Boston Safe also accepts demand deposits and makes a limited number 
of loans to individuals; the loans are secured by nonbusiness assets, 
are made as a courtesy to trust customers, and are made only on an 
occasional and irregular basis. However, proceeds of some such loans 
have been used for business purposes by the borrowers. The total 
amount of such loans that are for business purposes is understood 
to be approximately 1-1/2 per cent of the total assets of Boston Safe. 
Furthermore, it is understood that Boston Safe does not solicit any 
loan business. 
The question raised by these facts are whether loans made' 
to individuals for business purposes and fully secured by nonbusiness 
assets are encompassed within the meaning of the term "commercial 
loans" for purposes of section 2(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
("Act") and, if so, whether Boston Safe "engages in the business of 
making" such loans as the phrase is used in section 2(c) of the Act. 
Section 2(c) defines "bank" as an organization which accepts 
demand deposits and engages in the business of making commercial loans. 
The Board has defined the term "commercial loans" for purposes of 
section 2(c) as including all loans to an individual, secured or 

Mr. Lee J. Aubrey 
- 2 -
1337 
unsecured, other than a loan the proceeds of which are used to acquire 
property or services used by the borrower for his own personal, family, 
or household purposes, or for charitable purposes. Loans to individuals 
for business purposes secured by nonbusiness assets fall within that 
definition. 
The Board has reconsidered its definition to determine 
whether such loans should be included. Based upon the purposes of the 
Act and the mandate from Congress to construe all exemptions narrowly, 
including the exemption derived from the section 2(c) definition of 
"bank", the Board has concluded that such loans fall within the phrase 
"commercial loans". 
The Board has also considered whether Boston Safe "engages 
in the business of making" such loans and has concluded that Boston 
Safe does not so engage since such loans are made only occasionally, 
and Boston Safe makes such loans only as an accommodation to its 
trust customers and neither solicits such loan business nor operates 
a credit department. 
The Board understands that Boston Safe purchases "money 
market instruments", such as certificates of deposit, commercial 
paper, and bank acceptances. 
In the circumstances of this case, 
such transactions are not regarded as commercial loans for the pur-
poses of the Act. 
On the basis of the facts presented, the Board has concluded 
that Boston Safe will not be regarded as engaged "in the business of 
making commercial loans" for purposes of the Holding Company Act by 
virtue of its loans to individuals, so long as Boston Safe does not 
make any commercial loans other than on the basis indicated above, 
its loan transactions are also on a limited and occasional basis 
for the accommodation of trust customers only, and in any event, are 
not in an amount in excess of 2 per cent of assets. 
A further aspect of Boston Safe's operations is its engage-
ment in Federal funds transactions which, according to Boston Safe's 
1971 Report of Condition, amounted to $8 million of Federal funds 
sold outstanding as of December 31, 1971. The Board has previously 
taken the position, and continues to adhere to the position, that 
the sale of Federal funds constitutes an unsecured loan. The Board 
has concluded however that the sale of Federal funds by Boston Safe 
is not tantamount to the making of a commercial loan, for purposes 
of the Act. 

Mr. Lee J. Aubrey 
-3-
Of course, Boston Safe should be advised that all the 
Board's conclusions in these matters are subject to revocation 
or amendment if any of the facts upon which those conclusions are 
based change in any material respect. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
