5-67) 
Minutes for January 30, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
X 

360 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 30, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Chief Federal Reserve 
Examiner 
Mr. Doyle, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Francoeur, Operations Analyst, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Mr. Wiles, Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a 
report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
Robesonia State Bank, Robesonia, Pennsylvania, into The Reading Trust 
Company, Reading, Pennsylvania. The conclusion read as follows: 

363 
1/30/68 
- 2 -
Consummation of the proposed merger would eliminate 
existing and potential competition between The Reading 
Trust Company and Robesonia State Bank. The overall com-
petitive effect of the proposed merger would be adverse. 
Reports to Budget Bureau (Items 1 and 2). Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to the Bureau of the Budget in response to a 
request for the Board's views on a Treasury draft bill to provide for 
increased participation by the United States in the Inter-American 
Development Bank. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Unanimous approval also was given to a letter to the Bureau 
in response to a request for the Board's views on a Treasury draft 
bill to provide for increased participation by the United States in 
the International Development Association. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the second letter was appro-
priate in the light of discussions of the subject within the National 
Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies, the 
nature of which he described. 
Conference on protection function (Item No. 3). In a memoran-
dum of January 26, 1968, the Division of Examinations and the Division 
of Bank Operations pointed out that the program of surveys by the U.S. 
Secret Service of the protection departments at the respective Federal 
Reserve Bank offices was nearing completion. It was proposed that a 
conference be held at the Board's offices that would be attended by 

1 ,<?*> 
o o ^ 
1/30/68 
- 3 -
Reserve Bank personnel having responsibility for the protection func-
tion. At the meeting there would be a presentation by the Secret 
Service on security principles and on the main recommendations result-
ing from the recent surveys. Those attending the conference would 
consider the possibility of meeting annually to exchange information 
of current interest, and they would also consider the establishment 
of a program for the training of guard personnel. 
During discussion several questions were raised by members of 
the Board relating to the objectives of such a conference and whether 
it should more appropriately be attended by Reserve Bank officers or 
by technicians (guard captains). As an alternative, it was suggested 
that implementation of plans for training programs might be referred 
to the Conference of Presidents. It was generally agreed that in any 
event a series of conferences in Washington with respect to the pro-
tection function should not be contemplated. 
Governor Robertson, drawing upon the several views that had 
been expressed, then observed that inasmuch as the Federal Reserve had 
received the advice of the Secret Service through the field surveys at 
the Federal Reserve offices, a one-day meeting of operating officers 
from the Reserve Banks might be called to discuss the recommendations 
of the Secret Service, including those with which there had not been 
full agreement on the part of some Reserve Banks, and to ascertain 
what need appeared to exist for training programs or for further 

363 
1/30/68 
- 4 -
communication among the Banks. Such matters might then be referred to 
the Presidents' Conference for consideration and implementation. 
There was general agreement that it would be appropriate to 
proceed in the manner outlined by Governor Robertson. Attached as 
Item No. 3 is a copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance and Governor Daane reported briefly on the recent meeting in 
Paris of the Deputies of the Group of Ten at which consideration was 
given to certain questions that had arisen with regard to implementing 
the program of special drawing rights adopted at the annual meeting of 
the International Monetary Fund last year. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Edward L. Mertz as Senior Attorney, Legal Division, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $18,404, effective the date of entrance 
upon duty. 
Salary increase 
Walter Lee, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, from 
$3,902 to $4,181 per annum, with a change in title to Working Foreman, 
effective February 11, 1968. 

3«4 
1/30/68 
•iVCvi--'-
-; ;. ' 
- 5 -
On January 30, 1968, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
telegram, a copy of which is attached 
under the item number indicated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
approving the appointment of James S. DeRoy, Jr., 
as assistant examiner. 
' • •• h»i't; i 
Item No, 
Secretary 
: ,.$ i JLH; . * 
i: v 
' 
> 
1 • 
' >1 !*{» •'« f ; i r 
: ? 
• , 
I 
i, j. b • • • 

B D A R D CDF G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
1/30/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A-
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 30, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This refers to your Legislative Referral Memorandum of 
January 26, 1968 requesting the Board's views, by January 31, 1968, 
regarding the Treasury draft bill, "To provide for increased partic-
ipation by the United States in the Inter-American Development Bank, 
and for other purposes," which would authorize the United States 
Governor of the Bank to vote for an increase of $1,000,000,000 in 
the Bank's authorized callable capital stock and to agree on behalf 
of the United States to subscribe to its proportionate share thereof 
and would authorize the appropriation of $411,760,000 for payment of 
such subscription. 
The Board of Governors would have no objection to enactment 
of the aforesaid bill. 
Attention: Messrs. J. F. C. Hyde, Jr., and D. N. Sachs 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 G o 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
O F T H E 
1/30/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 30, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Attention: Messrs. J. F. C. Hyde, Jr., and D. N. Sachs 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This refers to your Legislative Referral Memorandum of 
January 26, 1968 requesting the Board's views, by January 31, 1968, 
regarding the Treasury draft bill, "To provide for increased parti-
cipation by the United States in the International Development 
Association, and for other purposes," which would authorize the 
United States Governor of the Association to vote for an increase 
of $1,200,000,000 in the Association's resources and to agree on 
behalf of the United States to contribute its proportionate share 
thereof and would authorize the appropriation of $480,000,000 for 
payment of such contribution. It is understood that this increase 
in the Association's resources, to be paid in three equal annual 
instalments beginning in 1968, has been recommended by Mr. George 
Woods and is currently under study by the United States and other 
members of the Association. 
The Board of Governors would have no objection to enactment 
of the aforesaid bill. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 S 7 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
1/30/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
A D O R C S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 7, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
Now that the program of surveys of the Protection 
Departments at the respective Federal Reserve Bank offices, 
made under the direction of the Secret Service, is nearing com-
pletion, it has occurred to us that the benefits of the program 
might be enhanced through a general exchange of information and 
views on matters such as protection policies, practices, and 
equipment. With that in mind, the Board feel s that it would be 
helpful to convene a one-day meeting at the Board's offices to 
be attended by an officer from each Reserve Bank who has respon-
sibility for the protection function. 
To provide a framework for discussion, it is contemplated 
that arrangements would be made for Secret Service representatives 
who have participated in the surveys to present to the group, with 
an opportunity for questions and comments, a review of security 
principles and their rationale, along with a review of the major 
recommendations and suggestions resulting from the surveys. 
Other topics suggested for consideration by those attend 
ing the meeting are: 
(1) Establishment of a general training program 
for guard personnel. 
(2) Policies to govern actions of Reserve Bank 
guard staffs in emergencies arising from 
civil disturbances, and 
(3) Ways and means of keeping abreast of current 
developments in the security area, through a 
committee of the Presidents' Conference or 
otherwise. 

From the Board's standpoint, it appears that any one 
of the following dates would be suitable for the meeting: 
February 29, March 1, March 14, or March 15. Please advise the 
name of the officer from your Bank who will attend the meeting 
and whether any of these dates would not be convenient. On the 
basis of the replies received, we will advise you of the date 
that has been selected. 
The Board would be glad to have any comments you may 
care to offer regarding the proposed meeting, including suggestions 
for topics that might profitably be added to the agenda. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

Item No 
T E L E G R A M 
1/30/68 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
January 30, 1968 
STEPHENSON - ATLANTA 
REURLET January 26, 1968, Director, Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves appointment of James S. 
DeRoy, Jr., as assistant examiner Federal Reserve Bank 
of Atlanta, effective February 5, 1968. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 
