PR 609 
(Re v. 5-67) 
Minutes for May 4, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
i i •• ;-.• . H 
J&J A , 
W 

1706 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 4, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Noble and Via of the Legal Division 
Mr. Golden of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Kline and Lyon of the Division of 
Examinations 
Application of BT New York Corporation (Items 1-3). There had 
been distributed, pursuant to the understanding at the Board meetings 
on April 25 and 26, 1967, a revised draft of statement reflecting the 
Board's action on April 11, 1967, denying the application of BT New 
York Corporation, Suffern, New York, to acquire 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of Liberty National Bank and Trust Company, Buffalo, 
New York. The statement had been revised so as to place principal 
emphasis on the competitive impact of the proposed transaction in the 
Buffalo metropolitan area rather than in the Ninth Banking District of 

1? 
5/4/67 
-2-
New York State. Subsequent to the previous discussion, Governor 
Mitchell had decided to express his views in a concurring statement, 
and such a statement also had been distributed. 
Discussion at today's meeting disclosed satisfaction with the 
revised statement, and there was agreement with a suggestion by Mr. 
O'Connell that the order indicate that the application had been denied 
by unanimous vote, all Board members being present, and that Governor 
, 
>• i • ;
I
,
. 
• 
Sherrill had not been a member of the Board at the time the action was 
taken. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached 
as Items 1 and 2. A copy of Governor Mitchell's concurring statement 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
Proposed amendments to Clayton Act (Item No. 4). Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the Bureau of the Budget responding 
to a request for the views of the Board on H.R. 2511, a bill "To amend 
the Clayton Act, as amended, by requiring prior notification of corpo-
rate mergers and acquisitions, and for other purposes." A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 4. (A similar letter was sent to Chair-
man Celler of the House Judiciary Committee in response to his request 
for a report on H.R. 2511.) 
Dinner for System Research Advisory Committee. As requested 
by Mr. Partee, Associate Director of the Division of Research and 

1708 
5/4/67 
-3-
Statistics, in a memorandum dated May 1, 1967, the Board approved unani-
mously the holding of a dinner for the System Research Advisory Committee 
on May 23, 1967. The memorandum noted that $400 had been provided for 
the dinner in the 1967 budget of the Division of Research and Statistics. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 5 
is a copy of the letter regarding delegation 
of Board functions that was sent today to the 
Federal Reserve Banks pursuant to the under-
standing at the meeting on April 25, 1967. 
A letter was sent today to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago noting that the Bank's Board of 
Directors had approved an extension to July 1, 
1968, of the leave of absence without pay of 
Robert J. Hochstatter, Senior Bank Examiner, 
in order that he might continue his temporary 
assignment to the Central Bank of Paraguay 
pursuant to the request of the International 
Monetary Fund. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City (copy attached 
as Item No. 6) approving the appointment of John J. Nolan as Alternate 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agent. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City (copy attached 
as Item No. 7) approving the appointment of Robert B. Turner as Federal 
Reserve Agent's Representative at the Oklahoma City Branch. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics recommend-
ing the appointment of Robert E. Anderson as Summer Research Assistant 
in that Division, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,867, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 

1709 
Item No. 1 
5/4/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
t 
BT NEW YORK CORPORATION, 
1 
Suffern, New York, 
1 
i 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
Liberty National Bank and Trust Company,1 
Buffalo, New York. 
1 
1 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)), 
and section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), 
an application by BT Nex; York Corporation, Suffern, New York, for the 
Boardfs prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
outstanding voting shares of Liberty National Bank and Trust Company, 
Buffalo, New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
recommended approval. 

-2-
1710 
As discussed in the Statement accompanying this Order, the 
New York State Banking Board advised this Board of its action, following 
a recommendation of the New York State Superintendent of Banks, approving 
an application relating to the same transaction pursuant to the New York 
4 
Banking Law. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 3, 1966 (31 Federal Register 15205), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion, Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 4th day of May, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Unanimous, with all members present. 
Governor Sherrill was not a member of the Board on the date 
of the Board's decision. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
(SEAL) 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

17 J 
Item No. 2 
5/4/67 
APPLICATION BY BT NEW YORK CORPORATION FOR APPROVAL 
OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
LIBERTY NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
BT New York Corporation, Suffern, New York ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
amended ("the Act"), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the outstanding voting shares of Liberty National Bank 
and Trust Company, Buffalo, New York ("Liberty National"). 
Applicant began operations on May 31, 1966, with the acquisition 
of four banking subsidiaries, whose 88 banking offices held total deposits 
1/ 
of $4,742 billion at June 30, 1966. 
Liberty National, with deposits of 
$341 million, is the third largest commercial bank in Buffalo and New York 
State's Ninth Banking District. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
jJ All banking data are as of this date, unless otherwise noted. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

1712 
-2-
In accordance with the requirements of Article III-A of the 
New York Banking Law, Applicant had filed with the New York State Banking 
Board an application involving the same proposal. Pursuant to the State 
law, the New York Superintendent of Banks submitted his recommendation on 
the proposal to the Banking Board, and transmitted a copy thereof to the 
Board of Governors. The Superintendent recommended approval and on 
February 1, 1967, the Banking Board approved the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant is 
presently the sixth largest commerical banking organization (branch banking 

- 3 - 
171.3 
organizations and bank holding companies) in New York State and the State's 
largest bank holding company, accounting for approximately 7 per cent of 
the deposits held by all commercial banks in the State. Consummation of 
the proposed transaction would increase this State-wide concentration 
only slightly. 
Applicant's largest subsidiary bank, Bankers Trust Company of 
New York City, has deposits of $4.5 billion. Its three other subsidiaries, 
First Trust Company of Albany (deposits $128 million), First State Bank of 
Spring Valley (deposits $44 million), and Fallkill Bank and Trust Company, 
Poughkeepaie (deposits $15 million), all are headquartered in the eastern 
part of New York State. First Trust Company is located in the State's 
Fourth Banking District; First State Bank and Fallkill Bank are located 
in the Third Banking District. The closest office of any of these banks 
is over 200 miles from the nearest office of Liberty National. 
Liberty National, the principal office of which is located in 
Buffalo, operates 34 offices and holds total deposits of $341 million. 
It is the third largest commercial bank in Buffalo, and in the Ninth Banking 
District. Liberty National has 28 offices in the Buffalo Metropolitan 
Area, 27 of which are located in Erie County, with 17 of these located 
within the City of Buffalo. In addition, it has four offices in 
Chautauqua County and two in Genesee County. It has no offices in the 
four other counties in the Ninth District. The bulk of Liberty National's 
business is derived from the Buffalo Metropolitan Area (Erie and Niagara 
Counties) and this is considered to be its primary service area. 

1714 
-4-
The City of Buffalo is the second largest city in the State; 
the Buffalo Metropolitan Area ranks second among the seven metropolitan 
areas in the State in population and employment, being nearly twice as 
populous as the next ranking area. Erie County, in which the City of 
Buffalo is located, is the dominant county in the Ninth Banking District 
containing about 63 per cent of the District's total population. Niagara 
County, with a population exceeding one quarter million, lies north of 
Erie County. The City of Buffalo, together with the City of Niagara Falls, 
forms the industrial and commercial core of the metropolitan area. 
Buffalo is the Nation's leading center for flour milling and is an im-
portant producer of animal feed. Its manufacturing industries include 
light and heavy machinery, steel and pig iron, fabricated metal products, 
automobile parts, rubber tires, and mechanical rubber goods and cellulose 
film. 
The record indicates that the degree of competition presently 
existing between Applicant and Liberty National is less than might ordin-
arily be expected in view of the national and international scope of Bankers 
Trust Company's business and the commercial significance of the Buffalo 
area. Approximately $2 million (.7 per cent) of Liberty National's 
deposit accounts of individuals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC 
deposits") originate in the New York Metropolitan Area (the primary ser-
vice area of Bankers Trust Company), as compared with $753,000 (.02 per 
cent) of Bankers Trust Company's IPC deposits which originate in the 
Buffalo Metropolitan Area (Liberty National's primary service area). 

-5-
171.5 
Overlap of loans or trust accounts appears no more significant than the 
IPC deposit overlap. Similarly insubstantial is the IPC deposit overlap 
between Liberty National and the other subsidiaries of Applicant. Elimi-
nation of existing competition between and among Applicant's subsidiaries 
and Liberty National, therefore, is not a significant consideration 
weighing against approval of the application. 
The proposal's probable effect on potential competition, how-
ever, does present a severely adverse consideration. Commercial banking 
in the Buffalo Metropolitan Area is very highly concentrated. The three 
large Buffalo banks, Marine Midland Trust Company of Western New York 
("Marine Midland"), a subsidiary of The Marine Midland Corporation, 
Buffalo, a registered bank holding company; Manufacturers and Traders 
Trust Company ("M & T") ; and Liberty National, combined^old over 95 per 
cent of the total of all deposits held by the nine commercial banks head-
quartered in the Buffalo Metropolitan Area (Marine Midland and M & T 
account for 80 per cent of such deposits). Of the 168 commercial banking 
offices in the Area, all but 13 are offices of one of these three banks. 
Applicant concedes the existence of this high degree of 
concentration by asserting that "Buffalo . . . has the highest con-
centration of commercial banking deposits of any city of its size 
in the United States." Applicant, however, contends that its pro-
posal will promote deconcentration by strengthening the ability of 
Liberty National to compete with its two larger rivals. The Board 
views as limited both the probable impact on Liberty National's 

- 6 -
1716 
larger competitors, and the benefits to the public, from a greater 
statistical equalization in the overall market shares held by the 
v 
-
three largest banks. The very largest customers in the Buffalo area 
would be the exclusive recipients of any real benefit; and the signifi-
cance of the benefit to these customers is lessened by the fact that 
they presently have, and make use of, access to numerous non-local 
State and nationwide sources of bank service. 
Regarding Liberty National's ability to compete effectively 
without the proposed affiliation, the record before the Board does not 
present Liberty National as a weak and ineffectual competitor unable 
to exert any impact on the market. On the contrary, the record indi-
cates that Liberty National is a most aggressive and able competitor. 
During the ten-year period 1956-1965, its share of Ninth District deposits 
increased from 9.4 per cent to 13.2 per cent. This represents the best 
performance of any bank in the Ninth District. Although the largest 
part of this growth resulted from mergers, the facts indicate that, even 
aside from the growth directly attributable to mergers, Liberty National 
more than held its own in comparison with other banks in the District, 
including Marine Midland and M & T. Excluding growth resulting from 
mergers involving the three banks, Liberty National's share of District 
deposits still increased by .1 per cent in the period from year-end 1955 
to year-end 1965; shares held by Marine and M & T each declined by .2 per 
cent over the same period. Overall, Liberty National's deposits increased 
» 
by 138 per cent during the last ten years; those of Marine and M & T each 
increased by about 78 per cent in the same period. Further evidence 

1717 
of Liberty National's competitive ability is the fact that, in addition 
to the ten offices which Liberty National has acquired through merger, 
it has opened seven de novo branches since 1956. The Board's concern 
has earlier been noted with respect to the extent to which the banking 
resources in the Buffalo Metropolitan Area are presently concentrated in 
a few large banking organizations. The proposed acquisition of a large 
and aggressive institution, such as Liberty National, by the sixth largest 
banking organization in the State would not, in the Board's judgment, 
produce any meaningful deconcentration in Buffalo or elsewhere in New 
York State. Consummation of the proposed affiliation can reasonably be 
anticipated to stifle any incentive for entry of meaningful competition 
into this area by institutions unaffiliated with organizations of or near 
Applicant's size. 
In the Board's judgment, Applicant's acquisition of the second 
largest independent bank in Buffalo and the Ninth District is not the only 
reasonable course available to it for growth and expansion in this area. 
Applicant's resources and the scope of its activities are presently such 
as to permit it, at any time it finds it desirable to do so, to expand 
its operations in the Buffalo area, particularly as they relate to the 
requirements of large businesses which Applicant states the proposed 
transaction is designed to serve. While it could be argued that affilia-
tion with a large existing institution is the only feasible method of 
meaningful entry for a smaller organization, Applicant is under no such 
handicap. Should Applicant seek to implement the desire manifested by the 
present application for affiliation with a Ninth District bank through 
some other less anticompetitive transaction, such course remains open to 
it. 

-8-
1718 
Another aspect of potential competition to be considered is 
the possibility that Liberty National, if the application were to be 
denied, might itself serve as the lead bank in a new holding company, 
thereby enabling it to extend its competitive influence outside the 
Buffalo area and the Ninth Banking District and into areas where it would 
be in competition with Applicant's affiliates. In the Superintendent's 
recommendation to the State Banking Board, he stated, and the Board 
agrees, that "Liberty clearly has the potential to become either the lead 
bank in a regional bank holding company . . . or a participant with other 
banks . . . in an upstate bank holding company . . . 
There are a very 
limited number of unaffiliated banks with over $100 million in deposits 
in the upstate banking districts. Liberty National is the fourth largest 
of these, and the second largest in the entire Ninth Banking District, 
Affiliation with Applicant would preclude the possibility of a future 
affiliation whereby Liberty National could offer additional competition, 
for example, to banks in the Fourth Banking District, where Applicant is 
• -
presently represented by its affiliate, First Trust Company of Albany. 
Such form of additional competition could, in turn, result in a measurable 
degree of deconcentration of control of banking resources within the up-
state banking markets. 
Summarizing the effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, 
it is the Board's judgment that approval of the application is by no means 
Liberty National's only avenue of continued effective competition in the 
Buffalo area or of expansion of its sphere of effective operations both 

— 
-9-
1 7 1 9 
within and without the Ninth District; nor is this proposal the only 
reasonable means available to Applicant for gaining access to the Ninth 
District banking market. Approval of this transaction, on the other 
hand, would preclude the possibility of Liberty National's development 
as a meaningful alternative competitor in other areas of the State. 
Further, it would eliminate significant potential competition between 
Applicant's subsidiaries and Liberty National in the Buffalo Metropolitan 
Area, the Ninth Banking District, and other upstate areas. Finally, 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would have, in the Board's judgment, 
a significantly adverse impact on Liberty National's smaller competitors, 
with respect to which Liberty National presently maintains a significant 
size advantage. 
Convenience and needs of the area involved. - Among the benefits 
asserted by Applicant to result from consummation of its proposal, the 
following are the principal such benefits: Liberty National would have 
an available source of capital funds and advice regarding asset management; 
Liberty National would be more able to meet demands for larger-sized loans, 
thus enabling it to compete more effectively for the business of, and to 
serve, the larger industrial firms in the Buffalo area; and Bankers Trust 
Company would make available to Liberty National and its customers a full 
range of money market and wholesale banking and trust facilities, including 
computer and international banking services. 
There is every reason to believe that Liberty National would 
be assured of assistance in these areas from the holding company and/or 
Bankers Trust Company. As related to the convenience and needs of the bank-
ing public in the Buffalo area, however, there is no evidence of 

major banking needs presently going unserved. A full range of banking 
services is presently offered by at least one local bank, in almost full 
measure by two local banks, and in some measure by three or more local 
banks. In addition, New York City banks and subsidiaries of regional 
or New York City-based holding companies must be regarded as reasonably 
convenient alternative sources for certain major banking services. 
Bearing negatively on the convenience and needs considerations 
is the fact, conceded by Applicant, that if the transaction were consum-
mated Liberty National's customers would face a reduction in the number 
of banking alternatives presently available to them in New York City 
through Liberty National's correspondent relationships. On balance, the 
Board concludes that considerations bearing on the factor of convenience 
and needs of the area involved, while consistent with approval of the 
application, lend doubtful weight toward such approval. 
i 
• ! 
. 
t 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - Applicant's 
financial condition, management, and prospects were found to be satis-
factory, on a projected basis, when its formation was approved by the 
Board in April 1966 .and there is no evidence that unfavorable conditions 
have developed during its short operating history. 
Liberty National has a history of sound operations and growth. 
Its management is experienced and in all respects competent. Its prospects 
whether operating independently or as an affiliate of Applicant, are 
considered satisfactory. 

-11-
1721 
The banking factors as they pertain to the instant application, 
while consistent with approval, offer little affirmative support therefor. 
In this regard, the potential for strengthening capital and improving the 
bank's prospects that Applicant asserts the proposed holding company affi-
liation would afford is a consideration almost entirely offset by the ability 
which an institution of the size of Liberty National has for generating 
A 
such accomplishments from within. 
Conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts contained in 
the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of 
the Act, it is the Board's judgment that Applicantfs proposal may have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition and that the anticom-
petitive effects of the transaction are not clearly outweighed in the 
public interest by any probable effect of the transaction in meeting the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. Accordingly, the 
application should be denied. 
May A, 1967. 

1722 
Item No. 3 
5/4/67 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR MITCHELL 
I concur in the Board's denial action in this case and in 
its reasons supporting that action. It is my opinion, however, that 
the Board's responsibility under the statute to deal with what it calls 
a "high degree of concentration" has not been discharged. It is not 
enough to deny this application and to passively deplore the lack of 
competitive alternatives in Buffalo and the Ninth Banking District, In 
this case, the Board could, and in my opinion should, make known courses 
of action that, if pursued by an applicant, could meet with supervisory 
approval because of their pro-competitive implications. 
While no bank supervisory authority can reasonably be expected 
to give "prior clearance" to a hypothetical proposal, it is not unreason-
able to expect that such authority should specify, and even encourage, 
a course of banking expansion that is reasonably calculated to serve, 
simultaneously, the business requirements of the applying institution 
and the public interest* 
In denying BT New York Corporation's application, the Board 
concluded that Applicant's acquisition of Liberty National "would not . , t 
produce any meaningful deconcentration" in the Buffalo Metropolitan 
Area. An obvious alternative leading to less concentration in Buffalo 
would be the de novo establishment under Applicant's sponsorship of a 
banking institution in the area, followed by Applicant's acquisition of 
the new institution pursuant to approval of this Board. This pattern of 

-2-
1723 
affiliate organization and subsequent acquisition is a familiar one to 
1/ 
this Board. 
It is one that Applicant, or any other institution in 
similar circumstances, must often necessarily follow in order to avoid 
the anticompetitive consequences of expansion into communities where 
concentration is already high. 
In my opinion, the banking structure in Buffalo is one in which 
a larger number of banking units could be presumed to insure a more com-
petitive environment--this is the thrust of the Board's characterization 
of the area as one of a "high degree of concentration" and the Applicant's 
assertion that "Buffalo has the highest concentration of commercial bank-
ing deposits of any city of its size in the United States." Public action 
ought to be able to do something more than just hold the line of concen-
tration at this level. The Board could, at a minimum, suggest the use of 
procedures it has approved on several occasions and hope seme corporate 
interest would respond in kind. 
May 4, 1967. 
1/ See, e.g., Application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, 
50 Federal Reserve Bulletin 438 (1964); Application of Virginia Commonwealth 
Corporation, 52 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1165 (1966); Application of 
Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, 53 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
380 (1967). 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
5/4/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 4, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request for the views of the 
Board on H.R. 2511, a bill "To amend the Clayton Act, as amended, 
by requiring prior notification of corporate mergers and acquisitions, 
and for other purposes." 
In general, the bill would amend section 7 of the Clayton 
Act to require that a corporation subject thereto notify the Attorney 
General, and the Commission or Board having authority under section 11 
to enforce section 7, sixty days in advance of the acquisition of the 
whole or any part of the stock or assets of another corporation en-
gaged in commerce, if the combined capital, surplus and undivided 
profits of the corporations involved exceed a book value of $10 mil-
lion. Section 11 of the Clayton Act gives the Board of Governors 
authority to enforce section 7 where it is applicable to banks. 
Although this authority has apparently been supplanted by the Bank 
Merger Act and the Bank Holding Company Act with respect to trans-
actions requiring approval under those Acts, it remains unaffected as 
to other transactions. See United States v. Philadelphia National 
Bank, 374 U.S. 321, 344, note 22. Thus, for example, the Board would 
have authority to enforce section 7 of the Clayton Act with respect to 
the acquisitions of bank stock by a corporation that does not meet the 
definition of a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company 
Act. The Board believes that the reporting requirements of H.R. 2511, 
as they would relate to such transactions, would facilitate effective 
enforcement of the law. 
The Board is of the view, however, that H.R. 2511 would 
impose an unnecessary duplication since it apparently would require ' 
reports to be made of proposed transactions that fall within the 
purview of the Bank Merger and Holding Company Acts. Exemption 
number fifteen of H.R. 2511 excludes from the bill's notification 

1725 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
and waiting period requirements "Any acquisition of stock or assets 
which, under any specific provision of law, requires the approval in 
advance of a commission or board or other agency of the United States, 
and when so approved is exempt under any specific provision of law 
from the provisions of . . . section [7 of the Clayton Act] . . . 
The Bank Merger and Holding Company Acts do not make transactions 
approved thereunder exempt, in the usual meaning of the term, from 
the provisions of section 7 of the Clayton Act; rather, they provide 
time periods beyond which such transactions cannot be attacked as 
violative of section 7. 
The Attorney General is notified in advance of proposed 
transactions under the Merger Act by virtue of the requirement that 
the responsible Federal banking agency, before acting on any applica-
tion thereunder (unless it is necessary to act immediately to prevent 
the probable failure of one of the banks involved), request reports on 
the competitive factors involved from the Attorney General and from 
the other two banking agencies charged with enforcing the Act. While 
there is no similar requirement in the Bank Holding Company Act, the 
Board, which is responsible for administering that Act, promptly 
forwards to the Attorney General a copy of each application filed 
thereunder which, if approved, would exempt the transaction from 
section 7 of the Clayton Act unless suit were filed within thirty days. 
Both the Merger Act and the Holding Company Act require that the 
Attorney General be notified immediately by the responsible banking 
agency of approvals of transactions which would be exempt from 
section 7 of the Clayton Act unless attacked within the period specified 
in the statute. 
The Board knows of no useful purpose that would be served by 
making transactions that are governed by the Bank Merger Act, and those 
that are governed by section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act, subject 
also to the notification and waiting period requirements of H.R. 2511, 
and recommends that such transactions be explicitly exempted from the 
bill. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1726 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 5 
T H E 
5/4/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 4, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
As you know, the Federal Reserve Act was amended on 
November 5, 1966, to authorize the Board to delegate certain of 
its functions. 
The Board is giving preliminary consideration to the 
enclosed drafts of (1) proposed "Rules Regarding Delegation of 
Authority", to be published in the Federal Register, that would 
provide for the delegation of certain functions of the Board, and 
(2) a list (that would not be published) of certain nonstatutory 
and nonregulation functions of the Board that might be delegated. 
The Board will, of course, continue to determine questions of 
general policy. Furthermore, it should be noted that the first 
section of the proposed Rules would enable any delegee to submit 
to the Board for its consideration any matter of unusual impor-
tance or complexity. 
The last section of the proposed Rules sets forth the 
procedure for review by the Board of actions taken at a delegated 
level. It is assumed that a Board member normally would not 
request review except on the basis of a petition filed by a person 
claiming to be adversely affected by a particular delegated action. 
The procedure amounts to a reservation by the Board, as required 
by law, of the right to review delegated actions; but, as a 
practical matter, it is believed that such actions will usually 
constitute final actions, in the light of the relatively non-
controversial nature of most of the functions proposed to be 
delegated. 

2-
1727 
It is contemplated that, as a matter of internal procedure, 
each Reserve Bank at the end of each business day would briefly 
identify in a telegram to the Board's Secretary the nature of all 
applications or requests received during that day and the nature 
of all actions taken by the Reserve Bank pursuant to delegated 
authority on that day. Actions taken by the Reserve Banks as 
delegees would be embodied in letters addressed by them to the 
applicant and would be signed by the appropriate officer of the 
Reserve Bank. All actions taken by delegees would be noted in the 
minutes of the Board for the day on which the actions are taken. 
In the rare instance in which Board review is requested and the 
Board decides to consider the matter, wire advice to that effect 
would promptly be sent by the Secretary of the Board directly to 
the applicant or other person concerned, with an information copy 
to the Reserve Bank involved. 
To assist in its further consideration of this matter, 
the Board would be glad to have the comments of your Bank. It 
would be appreciated if such comments could be received by not 
later than May 19, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 

D R A F T 
1 72S 
RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
(12 CFR Part 264) 
SECTION 264.1 - DELEGATION OF FUNCTIONS GENERALLY 
Pursuant to the provisions of section ll(k) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(k)), the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System delegates authority to exercise those of its functions 
described in this part, subject to the limitations and guidelines herein 
prescribed. The Chairman of the Board of Governors assigns the respon-
sibility for the performance of such delegated functions to the persons 
herein specified. In any case in which a delegee believes it appropriate, 
because of the importance or the complexity of a matter, he may submit 
the matter to the Board for determination. 
i 
SECTION 264.2 - SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS DELEGATED 
(a) The Secretary of the Board (or, in his absence, the Acting 
Secretary) is authorized: 
(1) Under the provisions of part 261 of this chapter, to 
make available, upon request, information in the records of the Board, 
giving consideration to the rules prescribed in that part. 
(2) Under the provisions of section 4(b) of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1814(b)), to certify to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation that, with respect to the admission of a State-
chartered bank to Federal Reserve membership, the factors specified in 
section 6 of that Act (12 U.S.C. 1816) were considered. 

-2-
1729 
( b ) The General Counsel of the Board (or, in his absence, the 
Acting General Counsel) is authorized: 
(1) Under the provisions of section 2(g) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(g)), to determine whether a company that trans-
fers shares to the types of transferees specified therein is incapable of 
controlling the transferee, giving consideration to the requirements 
prescribed therein. 
(2) Under the provisions of section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Hold-
ing Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)), to determine that a company engaged 
in activities of a financial, fiduciary, or insurance nature falls within 
the exemption described therein permitting retention or acquisition of 
control thereof by a bank holding company, giving consideration to the 
requirements and standards prescribed therein. 
(3) Under the provisions of sections 1101-1103 of the Internal 
Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 1101-1103), to make certifications (prior and 
final) for federal income tax purposes with respect to distributions of 
property pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
(c) The Director of the Division of Examinations (or, in his 
absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
(1) Under the provisions of the seventh paragraph of section 
9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 325), to select or to approve 
the appointment of Federal Reserve bank examiners, assistant examiners, 
and special examiners. 
(2) Under the provisions of the nineteenth paragraph of 
section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 625) and section 

-3-
1730 
211.9(e) of this chapter (Regulation K), to require submission and 
publication of reports by an Edge corporation. 
(3) Under the provisions of section 211.9(b) of this chapter 
(Regulation K), to grant an exception to the general rule therein with 
respect to liabilities of one borrower to an Edge corporation. 
(4) Under the provisions of section 211.9(c) of this chapter 
(Regulation K), to grant an exception to the general rule therein xd.th 
respect to the aggregate outstanding liabilities of an Edge corporation. 
(5) Under the provisions of section 5 of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1844), after having received clearance 
from the Bureau of the Budget (where necessary) and in accordance with 
the law of Administrative Procedure (5 U.S.C. 553), to promulgate regis-
tration, annual report, and other forms for use in connection with the 
administration of such Act. 
(6) Under the provisions of section 12(g) of the Securities 
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 781(g)): 
(i) to accelerate the effective date of a registration 
statement filed by a member State bank with respect 
to its securities; 
(ii) to accelerate termination of the registration of 
such a security that is no longer held of record 
by 300 persons; and 
(iii) to extend the time for filing a registration state-
ment by a member State bank. 

(7) Under the provisions of section 12(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78JL(d)), to accelerate the effective date of an 
application by a member State bank for registration of a security on a 
national securities exchange. 
(8) Under the provisions of section 12(f) of the Securities 
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C, 78JL(f)), to issue notices with respect to an 
application by a national securities exchange for unlisted trading 
privileges in a security of a member State bank, 
(9) Under the provisions of section 12(h) of the Securities 
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78JL(h)), to issue notices with respect to an 
application by a member State bank for exemption from registration. 
(10) Under the provisions of section 206.5(f) and (i) of 
this chapter (Regulation F), to permit the mailing of proxy and other 
soliciting materials by a member State bank before the expiration of 
the time prescribed therein. 
(11) Under the provisions of sections 206.41, 206.42, and 
206.43 (Instructions as to Financial Statements 9, 4, and 3, respectively) 
of this chapter (Regulation F), to permit the omission of financial 
statements from reports by a member State bank and/or to require other 
financial statements in addition to, or in substitution for, the state-
ments required therein. 

1732 
(d) The Director of the Division of Bank Operations (or, in 
his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
(1) Under the provisions of the sixteenth paragraph of sec-
tion 4 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 304), to classify member 
banks for the purposes of electing Federal Reserve bank class A and 
class B directors, giving consideration to (i) the statutory require-
ment that each of the three groups shall consist as nearly as may be of 
banks of similar capitalization and (ii) the desirability that every 
member bank have the opportunity to vote for a class A or a class B 
director at least once every three years. 
(2) Under the provisions of the third paragraph of section 16 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 413), to apportion credit among the 
Reserve banks for unfit notes that are destroyed, giving consideration to 
the net number of notes of each denomination that were issued by each 
Reserve bank during the preceding calendar year. 
(3) Under the provisions of section 19(b) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461) and section 204.2(a)(2) of this chapter 
(Regulation D), to permit a member bank in a reserve city to maintain 
reserves at the ratios prescribed for banks not in reserve cities, except 
a bank with demand deposits larger than the amount of demand deposits of 
the largest bank in the city that is permitted to maintain reserves at 
such lower ratio, giving consideration to factors such as the amount 
of the bank's resources, total deposits, demand deposits, demand deposits 
owing to banks, types of depositors and borrowers, turnover of demand 
deposits, geographical location within the city, and competitive 
position with relation to other banks in the city. 

-6-
(e) The Director of the Division of Personnel Administration 
(or, in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized, under the 
provisions of the twenty-first paragraph of section 4 of the Federal 
• 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 306), to approve the appointment of assistant 
Federal Reserve agents (including representatives and alternate repre-
sentatives of such agents). 
(f) Each Federal Reserve Bank is authorized, as to member 
banks headquartered in its district: 
(1) Under the provisions of the third paragraph of section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 321), section 5155 of the Revised 
Statutes (12 U.S.C. 36), and section 208.8 of this chapter (Regulation H), 
to permit a State member bank to establish a domestic branch and to extend 
the time for establishment thereof, if: 
(i) at the time of the bank's most recent examination 
(assuming there has been no significant deterioration 
since such examination): 
(A) its capitalization is adequate in relation to the 
volume of its risk assets, of its marginal and 
inferior quality assets, and of its deposits, 
all considered in relation to the strength of 
its management; 
(B) the bank is otherwise in a reasonably satisfactory 
condition and its total of classified assets, plus 
50 per cent of Other Loans Specially Mentioned, 
plus unclassified speculative bonds, stocks, and 
Other Real Estate does not exceed 40 per cent of 
its gross capital structure; 

-7- 
1'7M 
(C) management is adequate to all its responsibilities, 
has the ability to cope successfully with existing 
or foreseeable problems, and has sufficient depth 
to staff the proposed branch without any signifi-
cant deterioration of the overall management 
situation; 
(ii) the convenience and needs of the community will be 
better served if the proposed branch is established; 
(iii) establishment of the proposed branch will not tend to 
create a monopoly or an undesirable competitive advan-
tage (either proposed or potential) in relation to the 
other b&nks headquartered or operating branches in the 
same area; 
(iv) there are good prospects for profitable operations of 
the proposed branch within a reasonable time, and the 
bank's earnings are adequate to sustain the operational 
losses of the proposed branch until it becomes 
profitable; 
(v) the bank's investment in bank premises after the 
expenditure for the proposed branch will be 
reasonable; 
(vi) counsel for the Reserve bank considers that establish-
ment of the branch would be in conformity with the 
provisions of law referred to in this subparagraph (1). 
(vii) the establishment of the proposed branch has been 
approved by the appropriate State authority; and 

•
— 
-e- 
1 f 3 5 
(viii) the anticipated time from date of approval to date of 
opening of the branch does not exceed one year where no 
construction is involved or 18 months where construction 
is involved. 
(2) Under the provisions of the sixth paragraph of section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 324) and the provisions of section 
5199 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 60), to permit a State member 
bank to declare dividends in excess of net profits for the calendar year 
combined with its retained net profits of the preceding two years, less 
any required transfers to surplus or a fund for the retirement of any 
preferred stock, if: 
(i) at the time of the bank's most recent examination 
(assuming there has been no significant deterioration 
since such examination): 
(A) its capitalization is adequate in relation to the 
volume of its risk assets, of its marginal and 
inferior quality assets, and of its deposits, 
all considered in relation to the strength of 
its management; 
(B) the bank is otherwise in a reasonably satisfactory 
condition and its total of classified assets, 
plus 50 per cent of Other Loans Specially Men-
tioned, plus unclassified speculative bonds, 
stocks, and Other Real Estate does not exceed 
40 per cent of its gross capital structure; 

1736 
(C) management is not demonstrably incompetent 
or otherwise seriously deficient; and 
(ii) after payment of the proposed dividend, its capital-
ization would still be adequate in accordance with 
the considerations set forth in clause (i)(A) of 
this subparagraph (2). 
(3) Under the provisions of the tenth paragraph of section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 328), to waive six months1 notice 
by a bank of its intention to withdraw from Federal Reserve membership, 
(4) Under the provisions of the eleventh paragraph of sec-
tion 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 329), to permit a State member 
bank to reduce its capital stock if its capitalization thereafter will be: 
(i) in conformity with the requirements of federal law, and 
(ii) adequate in relation to the volume of its risk assets, 
of its marginal and inferior quality assets, and of 
its deposits, all considered in relation to the 
strength of its management. 
(5) Under the provisions of the seventeenth paragraph of 
section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 334), to extend the time, 
for good cause shown, within which an affiliate of a State member bank 
must file reports. 
(6) Under the provisions of the ninth paragraph of section 21 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 486), to waive the examination of 
an affiliate of a State member bank if such examination is not necessary 
to disclose fully the relations between such affiliate and such bank and 
the effect thereof upon the affairs of such bank. 

-10- 
V7-X7 
(7) Under the provisions of the seventh paragraph of section 
13 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 372), to permit a member bank 
to accept commercial drafts in an aggregate amount at any one time up 
to 100 per cent of its capital and surplus. 
(8) Under the provisions of section 203.2(a) of this chapter 
(Regulation C), to permit a member bank to accept dollar exchange drafts. 
(9) Under the provisions of section 24A of the Federal Reserve 
Act (12 U.S.C. 371d), to permit a State member bank to invest in bank 
premises in an amount in excess of its capital stock, if: 
(i) at the time of the bank's most recent examination 
(assuming there has been no significant deterioration 
since such examination): 
(A) its capitalization is adequate in relation to the 
volume of its risk assets, of its marginal and 
inferior quality assets, and of its deposits, 
all considered in relation to the strength of 
its management; 
(B) the bank is otherwise in a reasonably satisfactory 
condition and its total of classified assets, plus 
50 per cent of Other Loans Specially Mentioned, 
plus unclassified speculative bonds, stocks, and 
Other Real Estate does not exceed 40 per cent 
of its gross capital Ftructure; 
(C) management is not demonstrably incompetent or 
otherwise seriously deficient; and 

-11-
1738 
(ii) upon completion of the proposed investment, the aggre-
gate investment (direct and indirect) in bank premises 
plus the indebtedness of any wholly-owned bank 
premises subsidiary will not exceed 40 per cent of 
the bank's total capital funds plus valuation reserves, 
(10) Under the provisions of the ninth paragraph of section 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 615), to extend the time in 
which an Edge corporation must divest itself of stock acquired in satis-
faction of a debt previously contracted, 
(11) Under the provisions of the twenty-second paragraph of 
section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 628), to extend the 
period of corporate existence of an Edge corporation. 
(12) Under the provisions of section 5(a) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C, 1844(a)), to extend the time within which a bank 
holding company must file a registration statement, 
(13) Under the provisions of section 4(a) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C, 1843(a)), to extend the time within which a bank 
holding company must divest itself of interests in nonbanking organizations. 
(14) Under the provisions of section 4(c)(2) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)), to extend the time within which a 
bank holding company must divest itself of interests in a nonbanking organi-
zation acquired in satisfaction of a debt previously contracted. 
(15) Under the provisions of section 5(c) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1844(c)), to require reports under oath to deter-
mine whether a company is complying with the provisions of such Act and 
the Board's regulations promulgated thereunder. 

-12-
1 7 ^ 9 
SECTION 264.3 - EFFECT OF ACTION AT DELEGATED LEVEL 
Any action taken at a delegated level shall have immediate 
effect and be deemed the action of the Board. No such action shall be 
subject to review by the Board unless such review is requested by a 
member of the Board either on his own initiative or on the basis of a 
petition for review by any person claiming to be adversely affected by 
the action. Any such petition for review must be received by the 
Secretary of the Board not later than the fifth day after the date of 
such action. Notice of any such review shall be given to the person 
with respect to whom such action was taken and be received by such per-
son not later than the close of the tenth day following the date of such 
action. Upon receipt of such notice, such person shall not proceed further 
in reliance upon such action until he is notified of the outcome of review 
thereof by the Board. 

1740 
LIST OF FUNCTIONS OF A NONSTATUTORY AND NONREGULATION NATURE 
THAT WOULD BE DELEGATED BY THE BOARD BUT WOULD NOT BE PUBLISHED 
IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER 
1. To the Board member responsible for internal affairs: To authorise 
foreign travel by members of the Board's staff, except where travel 
of unusual nature is involved. 
2. To the General Counsel: 
(a) To approve agreements under which Reserve banks perform fiscal 
agency functions. 
(b) To extend the time within which briefs, argument, data, etc., may 
be submitted with respect to the Board's administrative proceedings, 
(c) To approve, up to $50,000, the compensation to be paid by a Reserve 
bank for special counsel. 
3. To the Director of the Division of Examinations: 
(a) To promulgate the form of the report of an examination of an Edge 
corporation,, 
(b) To promulgate the form of the report of an examination of a State 
member bank. 
(c) To inform the FDIC as to compliance by a bank with conditions 
imposed on withdrawal from membership. 
To the Director of the Division of Bank Operations: 
(a) To modify the formula for allocation of securities in the System 
Open Market Account (after consultation with the Manager of such 
Account), giving consideration to (1) providing each Reserve bank 
with sufficient earnings to cover its expenses and dividends and 
to maintain its surplus at the level of paid-in capital, (2) pro-
viding each such bank with ample collateral to secure its out-
standing notes, and (3) providing each such bank with sufficient 
gold certificate reserves to meet the minimum legal requirement, 
(b) To modify the Reserve Bank Accounting Manual (after considering 
the views of the Subcommittee on Accounting of the Committee on 
Systems, Procedures, and Accounting of the Conference of Presi-
dents) in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices 
for banks, except that the following will not be authorized: 
(1) reserves for contingencies, (2) charge-offs of land to below 
estimated market value, (3) charge-offs of buildings, or special 
additions to allowances for depreciation, that would result in 
full depreciation before 40 years after the date of completion 
of the structure, and (4) write-down of Government securities below 
cost, including establishment of a valuation reserve. 

- 2 -
1741 
(c) To exercise supervision over the following matters relating to 
Federal Reserve notes: (i) printing orders and (ii) contracts 
for shipment, giving consideration to, respectively, (i) the 
desirability of maintaining a two-year reserve supply of $5 to 
$100 notes and a one-year supply of $1 notes and (ii) awarding 
contracts to the lowest bidder determined to be qualified. 
To the Federal Reserve Banks: 
(a) To extend the time within which a bank holding company may 
acquire shares in connection with an application approved by the 
Board, if no material change has occurred in the company s general 
condition since such application was approved, 
(b) To extend the time within which a bank holding company must file 
its annual report, 
(c) To extend the time within which a member bank may establish a 
branch or within which an Edge or Agreement corporation may 
establish a branch or agency, if no material change has occurred 
in the bank's (or corporation's) general condition since the 
application was approved. 
(d) To extend the time within which an Edge or Agreement corporation 
may accomplish a purchase of stock that has been authorized by 
the Board, if no material change has occurred in the corporation's 
general condition since such authorization. 
(e) To extend the time within which Federal Reserve membership must 
be accomplished, if no material change has occurred in the bank's 
general condition since the application was approved. 
(f) To waive the penalty for deficient reserves by a member bank 
where (1) the amount of the penalty is minimal, (2) the bank is 
deficient during the computation period in which it becomes a 
member or the immediately-following computation period, (3) the 
deficiency is offset by excess reserves in the immediately-
following computation period, or (4) after a review of all the 
circumstances, the Reserve bank concludes that waiver of the 
penalty is warranted; except that in no case shall a penalty for 
deficient reserves be waived if the deficiency arises out of the 
bank's gross negligence or conduct inconsistent with the principles 
and purposes of reserve requirements0 
(NOTE: This would super-
sede the instructions now contained in F.R.L.S. #6120.) 

1742 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 6 
5/4/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R • 
May 4, 1967. 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Dolph Simons, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Simons: 
In accordance with the request contained in Mr. Cahill's 
letter of April 21, 1967, the Board of Governors approves the appoint-
ment of Mr. John J. Nolan as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. Nolan 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board 
of Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, dur-
ing the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy 
in that office, his responsibility will be to the Assistant Federal 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Alternate 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agent, Mr. Nolan may, with the approval of 
the Federal Reserve Agent and the President, perform such work for the 
Bank as will not be inconsistent with his duties as Alternate Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agent. 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Nolan is fully informed of the 
importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from 
the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
Please have Mr. Nolan execute the usual Oath of Office which 
should be forwarded to the Board of Governors along with the notification of 
the effective date of his appointment. 
Reserve Agent and the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman, 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1743 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 7 
• F T H E 
5/4/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 4, 1967. 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Dolph Simons, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Simons: 
In accordance with the request contained in Mr. Cahill's 
letter of April 21, 1967, the Board of Governors approves the appoint-
ment of Mr. Robert B. Turner as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative 
at the Oklahoma City Branch to succeed Mr. Arpy B. Bowlin. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. Turner 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board 
of Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, dur-
ing the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy 
in that office, his responsibility will be to the Assistant Federal 
Reserve Agent and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Federal 
Reserve Agent's Representative, Mr. Turner may, with the approval of 
the Federal Reserve Agent and the Vice President in charge of the 
Oklahoma City Branch, perform such work for the Branch as will not be 
inconsistent with the duties as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative. 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Turner is fully informed of 
the importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from 
the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
Please have Mr. Turner execute the usual Oath of Office which 
should then be forwarded to the Board of Governors along with notifica-
tion of the effective date of his appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
