MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 2, 1969 

u; - 1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 2, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
M r . Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Heyde and Mertz of the Legal Division 
M r . Lawrence of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, Harris, and Sanford, 
and Miss McShane of the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Foreign banking matters. A letter to First Pennsylvania Overseas 
Finance Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, granting consent to its 
/ 
proposed acquisition of additional shares of Compania Colombiana de 
Tejidos S.A., Medellin, Colombia, was approved unanimously. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 1. 

o 
1/2/69 
-2-
A letter to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, granting consent to its proposed acquisition of 
shares of Compania del Travia de Cariari, S.A., Costa Rica, at a price 
greater than contemplated by the Board's action on December 18, 1968, 
was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
First Holding Company. 
Issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on November 27, 1968, of the application 
of First Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, Wisconsin, to acquire shares 
of New Berlin State Bank, New Berlin, Wisconsin, was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents are attached under Item No. 3. 
Bank of Wood County Company. The Bank of Wood County Company, 
Bowling Green, Ohio, which already operated a branch in North Baltimore, 
Ohio, had applied for approval of a proposed merger with the other bank 
operating in North Baltimore, The Hardy Banking Company. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and the Board's staff 
recommended denial on the basis that the competitive effect would be 
adverse, because one of two banking alternatives in the town would be 
eliminated, and the banking factors offered no support for approval. 
However, an unusual factor in this case was that applicant's 
chief competitor, First National Bank of Bowling Green, had received 
permission from the Comptroller of the Currency to establish a branch in 
North Baltimore, reportedly with an understanding that the authorization 
would be used only if the merger application now under consideration by 
the Board was approved. 

3 
1/2/69 
-5-
The question presented, then, was whether the Board should 
render a decision on the basis of the facts as they presently existed 
or on the basis of an assumption that the branch actually would be 
established by First National Bank of Bowling Green. A further consider-
ation involved was an indication in the record that if the proposed 
merger was not approved First National Bank of Bowling Green might 
endeavor to effect a merger with Hardy Banking Company. 
The majority of the Board members concluded that the appropriate 
course of action would be to deal with the application in the light of 
the circumstances as they presently existed, and they therefore expressed 
agreement with the staff recommendation for denial. 
Accordingly, the application was denied, Governor Maisel dissenting, 
with the understanding that an order and statement would be drafted for 
the Board's consideration. 
In voting, Governor Sherrill asked that the 
record make clear that his position would have been different if a branch 
had already been established in North Baltimore by First National Bank of 
Bowling Green. 
Governor Maisel indicated that he did not plan to write a 
dissenting opinion. His vote reflected the view he had expressed on a 
number of occasions that in matters of this kind a great deal of weight 
should be given to evidence regarding the situation that seemed likely 
to develop in the future as a result of the action taken. 
Fidelity-American Bankshares. Fidelity-American Bankshares, Inc., 
Lynchburg, Virginia, had requested approval of action to become a bank 

4 
1/2/69 
-5-
holding company through acquisition of shares of The Fidelity National 
Bank, Lynchburg, Virginia, and American National Bank, Portsmouth, 
Virginia. The recommendations of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
and the Board's staff were favorable. 
After discussion, the application was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that an order and statement reflecting the decision 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Governor Robertson indicated that he voted to approve reluctantly 
and that he would plan to write a concurring opinion. While he did not 
want to deny applicant an opportunity to compete against the several 
large holding companies already in operation in the State of Virginia, 
he was concerned about the extent to which the banking structure of the 
State was becoming dominated by bank holding companies and felt that 
applications by such companies for further expansion should be studied 
carefully and normally rejected unless benefits to the public interest 
could be demonstrated. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum dated December 30, 1968, 
Mr. Broida had submitted for final review prior to release on Monday, 
January 6, a proposed policy record entry covering the meeting of the 
Federal Open Market Committee on October 8, 1968. The entry had been 
approved by the Board on December 9, 1968, and no further suggestions for 
changes had been received. 
Subject to one minor editorial change, the entry was approved 
unanimously for release on the date indicated. 

5 
1/2/69 
-5-
With a memorandum dated December 31, 1968, Mr. Broida had submitted 
a draft of policy record entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee on October 29, 1968. The entry reflected suggestions 
received following distribution of a preliminary draft. 
unanimously, with the understanding that it would be distributed to the 
Reserve Bank Presidents for possible further comments and would then be 
released about January 27, 1969, after final review by the Board. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Kenyon withdrew from the 
meeting at this point. 
Officer salaries. For Robert F. Gemmill and Samuel Pizer, 
recently appointed as Associate Advisers in the Division of International 
Finance effective January 1, 1969, the Board approved unanimously the 
payment of salary at the annual rates of $24,000 and $25,500, respectively, 
effective January 1, 1969, thus confirming action taken at the meeting on 
November 27, 1968. 
Subject to two minor editorial changes, the entry 
was approved 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1/2/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 2, 1969. 
First Pennsylvania Overseas 
Packard Building, 
15th and Chestnut Streets, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Finance Corporation, 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of November 13, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation to purchase and hold 22,751 additional shares of 
the common stock of Compania Colombiana de Tejidos S.A. ("Coltejer"), 
Medellin, Colombia, at a cost of approximately $14,000, provided 
the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this lecter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation and The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

«AL 
RE^V 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1/2/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 2, 19 69. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letters 
of October 25, 1968, and November 22, 1968, the Board of Governors 
grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold up to 25 per 
cent of the common stock of Compania del Travia de Cariari, S.A., 
Costa Rica, at a cost of approximately $3,750, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, First National City Bank, International Banking 
Corporation, and First National City Bank (International), and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 1 
1/2/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST HOLDING COMPANY, INC., 
Waukesha, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of New Berlin 
State Bank, New Berlin, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C, 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Holding Company, Inc., 
Waukesha, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of New Berlin State Bank, New Berlin, Wisconsin. 
As required by flection 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Wisconsin Commissioner of Banking of the application and requested 
his views and recommendation. The Commissioner advised the Board 
that he had no objection to the proposed transaction. 

- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 10, 1968 (33 Federal Register 11433), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 2nd day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Haisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Robert P 0 Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

10 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST HOLDING COMPANY, INC., WAUKESHA, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
NEW BERLIN STATE BANK, NEW BERLIN, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
First Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of New Berlin State Bank, New Berlin, 
Wisconsin. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Wisconsin 
Commissioner of Banking of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation. 
Tlie Commissioner advised the Board that he had 
no objection to the proposed transaction. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
* 
j 

11 
-2-
acquisition the effec- of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. 
In each case the Board is required to take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations!/ in Wisconsin, of which seven are bank holding 
companies,!/ control $3.1 billion of deposits, or 39 per cent of the 
total deposits held by all insured commercial banks in the State. 
Appli-
cant controls 1.4 per cent of such deposits and its acquisition of Bank's 
$5.2 million of deposits would increase its control of deposits to 1.5 per 
c e n t '
 
T h e fourth ranking banking organization is only slightly larger 
than Applicant, and the three largest banking organizations control about 
3 2 per cent of such deposits. 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1967, unless otherwise noted. 
2/ 
- 
Includes the Applicant, which became a bank holding company on 
^Pril 10, 1968, and American Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, whose 
PP ication to become a bank holding company was approved by the Board 
n October 30, 1968. 

12 
-3-
Bank is located in, and primarily serves, the City of New 
Berlin (population of about 24,000), Waukesha County, some 13 miles 
from downtown Milwaukee. Although three of the four offices of Appli-
cant's present subsidiary banks are also located in Waukesha County, 
the closest such office is more than six miles from Bank, and only the 
head office of Applicant's bank in the City of Waukesha derives deposit 
or loan business from the New Berlin area. 
Such business represents 
less than one per cent of the total deposits and loans of the Waukesha 
bank. 
For the most part, the deposit accounts that Applicant's Waukesha 
bank 
holds from the New Berlin area were derived prior to 1960 when Bank 
opened for business. 
The amount of business derived by Bank from the 
areas served by Applicant's subsidiaries is similarly insignificant and 
supports the judgment that the areas served by Applicant's present 
subsidiaries and Bank are separate rather than overlapping. 
This cir-
cumstance makes less significant the fact that consummation of this 
Proposal would increase by about two per cent Applicant's present sub-
stantial share of deposits originating in Waukesha County. 
While no other banks are located in New Berlin, there are 
14 offices of 10 banks located within a radius of seven miles of the 
City. At least six offices are reported to compete actively for busi-
ness originating in Bank's service area. Considering the distances 
separating Bank and the offices of Applicant's subsidiaries, the insig-
nificant amount of business each presently draws from the other, and 
Bank's relatively small size, it is reasonably concluded that little 

significant competition will arise in the foreseeable future between 
Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries. With respect to the effect of 
consummation of Applicant's proposal on other banks competing in the 
area, there is nothing in Applicant's proposal that reasonably suggests 
that its consummation would have any significant adverse impact on such 
banks, many of which are presently competing with the larger downtown 
Milwaukee banks. 
It is the Board's conclusion that consummation of the 
proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly, nor be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any relevant area. Nor does it appear 
that the proposal would have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition or tending to create a monopoly in any section of the 
country, nor would it in any other manner be in restraint of trade. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition is considered satisfactory, its 
management experienced and capable, and its prospects generally 
favorable. Bank's financial condition, management, and prospects 
are considered satisfactory. 
Convenience and n e e d s qf the communities involved. -
Although New Berlin is essentially a residential community, it is 
Presently experiencing rapid commercial and industrial development. 
An industrial park covering approximately 900 acres is being developed 

-5-
within Bank's service area. Approximately 25 industries have located 
in the industrial park to date, the major banking requirements of which 
are being served principally by banks in neighboring communities and by 
the larger banks in downtown Milwaukee. 
Bank's small size and limited 
lending capacity have restricted its ability to respond to the demands 
for service originating in the industrial park. 
It has been equally 
limited in the number and type of specialized services it can offer 
to the residents and businesses within its service area. 
Affiliation 
with Applicant's system as proposed would enable Bank to provide, in 
more convenient and immediate manner than now available, broader and 
improved banking services to the New Berlin community. These considera-
tions weigh favorably toward approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
January 2, 1969. 
