MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 25, 1969 

Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Friday, July 25, 1969. The 
meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board 
Members' Offices 
Messrs. Sigel, Keir, Eckert, Baker, Burns, 
Freedman, Fry, Kelty, and Kichline of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Ghiardi, Hersey, Katz, Norwood, 
Wood, Altmann, Bradshaw, Bryant, and 
Gekker of the Division of International 
Finance 
Money market review. Today's usual weekly review included 
reports on the Government securities market, on bank credit, and on the 
gold and foreign exchange markets. Copies of the statistical documenta-
tion prepared for the purpose of today's review have been placed in the 
Board's files. 

2387 
7/25/69 
-2-
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Partee 
and Norwood then withdrew, as did Messrs. Ring, Morgan, and Bernard, 
and the following entered: 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lynch, Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Goodfellow, Review Examiner, 
Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification at 
the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta on July 18 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 
and Dallas on July 24, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking matters. The following items were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Boston Overseas Financial 
1 
Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, 
granting consent to its acquisition 
of shares of Promotora Internacional 
de Ventas, S.A., Mexico City, Mexico. 

7/25/69 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Bank, 
2 
New York, New York, approving the 
establishment of three branches in 
Guam. 
Congressional testimony. Governor Brimmer noted that he had 
been invited to make a statement this afternoon before the Select 
Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives on the 
role of small business in minority economic development. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
v i 
' i < 
! v i ' 
i I • : il>- 
(. ** ! . 
M • '• 
on :.HO 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
7/25/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
July 25, 1969 
Boston Overseas 
Financial Corporation, 
67 Milk Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02110 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of May 21, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("BOFC") to purchase and hold 40 per cent of the shares 
of Promotora Internacional de Ventas, S.A. ("PV"), Mexico City, D. F. 
Mexico, at a cost of approximately $128,000, provided such shares' 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of PV by BOFC is granted subject to the following con-
(1) That BOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in PV if PV at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if PV establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Mexico or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to BOFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BOFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of PV as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by PV be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if PV were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
di tions: 

2330 
Boston Overseas 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far' as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted hy PV in Mexico in the 
currency of that country. 
In view of the fact that BOFC's acquisition of stock of 
PV places both PV and Arrendadora Internacional, S.A. ("AI"), Mexico 
City, D. F., Mexico, under the equal control of BOFC and the Banco 
Internacional group, the foregoing consent is granted on the further 
condition that BOFC's holding of stock in AI be subject to the same 
conditions as set forth in the second and third paragraphs of this 
letter, with the exception that AI be substituted for PV where PV 
appears. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of PV and AI. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, The First National Bank of Boston, and Bank of 
Boston International, and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2331 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
7/25/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARO 
July 25, 1969. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission for First National City Bank, New York, 
New York, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish three branches on Guam, and 
to operate and maintain such branches subject to the provisions 
of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branches are actually established and opened 
for business on or before August 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branches are opened for busi-
ness, furnishing information as to the exact location of the branches. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future changes in 
locations of the branches on Guam. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
