MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 10, 1968 

7Z6 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Friday, May 10, 1968. 
The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Bernard and Miss McWhirter of the 
Office of the Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research division other than Messrs. Partee 
and Axilrod of the Division of Research and Statistics and Mr. Reynolds 
of the Division of International Finance then withdrew, as did Mr. Bernard, 
and the following entered: 
T} Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1727 
5/10/68 
-2-
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Doyle of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Wiles and Lougee of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Achor, Goodfellow, and Poundstone 
of the Division of Examinations 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification 
at the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on May 6 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, and Dallas on May 9, 1968, of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. With memoranda dated May 7, 1968, 
the Division of Examinations and the Banking Markets Section had submitted 
a draft of report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of two El Paso, Illinois, banks 
• ! 
(El Paso National Bank and The Woodford County National Bank of El Paso) 
that had recently come under common ownership. The conclusion stated 
that in view of the close relationship now existing between the two banks 
there was no effective competition, that the banks were vigorous competitors 
Prior to their affiliation and consummation of the proposed transaction 
would permanently preclude the restoration of competition between them, 

1728 
5/10/68 
-3-
and that overall the effect of the proposal on competition would be 
substantially adverse. 
Governor Maisel noted that the affiliation of the two banks 
may have been in violation of section 1 of the Sherman Act. He suggested 
that a statement to such effect be included in the report along with 
a pertinent analysis of the situation. 
After discussion, it was agreed that the report would be 
considered further by the staff in light of the point raised by Governor 
Maisel. 
Morgan Guaranty. A memorandum from the Division of Examinations 
dated April 25, 1968, presented the application of Morgan Guaranty 
International Banking Corporation, New York, New York, for permission 
to purchase up to 12-1/2 per cent of the capital stock of a medium-term 
discount bank to be organized in London, England. The discount bank, 
to be formed by Morgan Guaranty and several foreign banks, would create 
a secondary market in bankers' acceptances and promissory notes with 
medium-term maturities. 
The Legal staff made reference to the Board's policy statement 
of March 14, 1968, regarding joint ventures in foreign banking and 
financial activities in which the Board indicated that before approving 
proposed international joint ventures it would consider the competitive 
aspects carefully and consult with the Department of Justice on antitrust 
issues, and that applicants would be required to submit full information 
relative to such matters. 

1729 
5/10/68 
-4-
In the opinion of the legal staff the operations of the proposed 
discount bank could have a substantial effect on the financing of U.S. 
export trade and on U.S. foreign commerce generally. However, the appli-
cation did not contain sufficient information to make a judgment on 
the competitive aspects. Consequently, the staff suggested that Morgan 
Guaranty be asked to supply additional information. 
There was agreement with that suggestion. A copy of the letter 
sent to Morgan Guaranty is attached as Item No. 1. 
Wachovia International. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to Wachovia International Investment Corporation, Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina, approving its application for permission to acquire 20 
per cent of the stock of Henry Ansbacher & Co. Ltd., London, England. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
S. 3133. With a memorandum dated May 9, 1968, Mr. Cardon 
submitted a draft of letter that might be sent to the Chairman of the 
Senate Banking and Currency Committee regarding a possible amendment 
to S. 3133, the bill to extend the authority to regulate rates payable 
by banks and savings and loan associations. When the Committee considered 
the bill it seemed likely that Senator Proxmire would offer an amendment 
that would direct the Federal Reserve to purchase Federal housing agency 
issues according to some predetermined formula. The Board had considered 
including views similar to those set forth in the proposed letter in 
Governor Robertson's testimony on the bill but had decided not to do so. 

1730 
5/10/68 
-5-
Governor Robertson, in his testimony, had expressed opposition to 
such an amendment in general terms but had not spelled out the Board's 
reasons. 
The letter was approved unanimously for transmittal to Chairman 
Sparkman, subject to a final check by the staff with regard to certain 
points raised by Governors Robertson and Maisel. A copy of the letter, 
as sent, is attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On May 10, 1968, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as reflected in the 
following letters, copies of which are 
attached as indicated: 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving the appointments of William L. Roberts 
and Raymond C. Laverty as assistant examiners 
and Bruce A. Cassella as examiner. 
4 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Union Trust Company of Maryland, 
Baltimore, Maryland, approving an investment 
in bank premises. 
5 
Secretary 

JoOVGOW,. 
BOARD DF 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 1 
5/10/68 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 24, 1968 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to your letter of March 22, 1968 requesting 
consent to purchase 12-1/2 per cent of a proposed medium-term discount 
bank in London. In accordance with its statement of policy regarding 
joint international ventures announced on March 14, 1968 (copy enclosed), 
the Board of Governors has concluded that it should consider the possible 
competitive effects on United States domestic and foreign commerce of 
such a joint undertaking by MGIftC and the eight foreign banks cited in 
your letter. 
In order to permit an accurate evaluation by the Board and 
the Justice Department of this aspect of the proposal, it would be 
appreciated if you would furnish information relating to existing and 
potential competition among the prospective joint venturers with respect 
to the medium-term financing of United States domestic and foreign 
commerce. It would also be helpful to have precise details as tc the 
expected mode of operation of the proposed disccunt bank, including 
whether it will deal exclusively or primarily in obligations originated 
by its shareholding banks. Also please indicate whether the proposed 
operations of the joint venture could feasibly be undertaken separately 
by some or all of the participating banks. In general, it is requested 
that the Board be provided with all information which MGI3C and its 
counsel would expect to be of assistance in considering the overall 
competitive effects of the proposed joint venture on United States 
domestic and foreign commerce. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 

If^N'lO 
. SO'* 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
5/10/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 10, 1968. 
Wachovia International Investment Corporation, 
P. 0. Box 3099, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 27102 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of March 5, 1968, the Board of Governors grants con-
sent for your Corporation to purchase and hold approximately 
20 per cent of the outstanding shares of Henry Ansbacher & 
Co. Ltd. ("Ansbacher"), London, England, at a cost of approx-
imately $650,000, provided the shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. In this connection, the 
Board also approves the purchase and holding of shares of 
Ansbacher in excess of 15 per cent of your Corporation's 
capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be made 
within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your Corporation and 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL R E 5 E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 3 
5/10/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 13, 1968. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I understand that when your committee considers S. 3133, 
to extend Public Law 89-597, an amendment may be offered to 
authorize the Federal Reserve Banks to purchase Federal agency 
issues directly from the issuing agency (as well as in the open 
market, as they are now authorized to do). The amendment would 
express the sense of Congress that this expanded authority should 
be used to enable financial institutions to continue to supply 
reasonable amounts of funds to the mortgage market during periods 
of monetary restraint. While I was given an opportunity to comment 
briefly on this general subject when I testified on S. 3133, I am 
writing now to express more fully the reasons why the Board opposes 
this amendment. 
The results that can be expected from Federal Reserve 
open market operations in agency issues would depend importantly 
on the scale of transactions contemplated. A scale of operations 
that would not supplant private investors as the principal source 
of agency funds would have to be relatively small and would have 
only a minor effect on rates. Since the overall posture of monetary 
policy must be dictated by economic conditions, purchases of agency 
issues would have to be offset by equivalent sales of direct 
Treasury debt from the System's portfolio. Consequently, interest 
rates on average would be affected little. There might be some 
tendency for rates on agency issues to decline relative to other 
market rates, but rates would tend to rise on the Treasury 
securities that were sold in order to effect open market purchases 
in these agency issues. The reduced costs of borrowing by these 
agencies would thus tend to be offset by higher borrowing costs 
on other Federal obligations. 
Any relative decline in rates on agency issues that 
might be achieved would probably be small, inasmuch as there is 
an abundant supply of other Federal securities of comparable 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
1731 
maturity to attract investment funds, and investors substitute 
freely between types of short-term debt as yield spreads change. 
The differential in yield between agency issues and comparable 
issues of direct Treasury debt reflects principally the market's 
evaluation of certain technical factors relating to the size, 
maturity, ease of marketability, and extent of Federal backing 
of agency issues. Such differentials can be narrowed by develop-
ment of a broad private market acceptance, but that development 
would be forestalled by an unduly active System intervention in 
what is, as yet, a relatively small market. 
The proposed amendment, however, seems to contemplate 
System acquisitions of agency issues on a scale sufficient to 
offset all or most of the impact of monetary restraint on housing. 
This would require much larger offerings of new FNMA and FHLB 
securities than in previous periods of monetary restraint to 
obtain funds for supporting the mortgage market. Under such 
conditions, the housing agencies would have to enjoy, in effect, 
a "tap" on central bank credit to obtain the needed funds. 
How large a volume of funds would be needed would depend 
both on the extent to which it was proposed to offset the effects 
of restraint on housing, and the reactions of financial markets 
to the attempts to accomplish it. Some idea of the orders of 
magnitude that are involved can be gained by observing the course 
of mortgage debt expansion in 1966. During that year, the annual 
rate of growth of total mortgage debt declined from about $25 
billion in the first quarter to about $14 billion in the fourth. 
While this reduction need not have been due entirely to the 
restricted supply of funds, a large share probably was. Further-
more, this decline occurred despite a substantial increase in 
direct and indirect Federal support for the mortgage market. 
Purchases of mortgages by Federal agencies during the first three 
quarters of 1966 totalled $3.9 billion at annual rates, compared 
with $1.0 billion in 1965. And loans from the Federal Home Loan 
Banks to savings and loan associations rose at a $1.9 annual rate 
in those three quarters, contrasted with a rate of increase of 
$0.7 billion in 1965. Thus, the decline of about $11 billion in 
the annual rate of mortgage debt expansion occurred despite an 
increase of about $4 billion (at annual rates) in direct and 
indirect Federal support to the mortgage market. 
Offsetting all of the effects of monetary restraint 
on homebuilding during 1966 thus might have required an 
additional $10 billion or thereabouts in Federal support to the 
mortgage market—or more, if additional Federal support for the 
market would have tended to encourage further diversion of private 
sources of funds from housing finance. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-3-
1731 
Efforts to inject such a massive amount of funds into 
the mortgage market, while maintaining overall monetary restraint, 
would undoubtedly result in an exceptional rise in borrowing costs 
for all other sectors of the economy. The principal source of 
the heightened interest rate pressures would be the rise in total 
security issues that resulted from increased flotations of FNMA 
and FHLB obligations to obtain funds for supporting the mortgage 
market. Since System purchases of these issues would have to be 
offset by equivalent sales of direct Treasury debt just to keep 
the growth rate of bank reserves from being affected, the volume 
of securities that private financial markets had to absorb would 
be increased markedly. 
Such interest rate pressures would generate additional 
restraint on spending in sectors other than housing. But it is 
probable that the overall degree of monetary restraint would be 
weakened by a program that succeeded in sustaining the flow of 
credit for homebuilding. Expenditures for residential construction 
are very sensitive to changes in the supply of available funds. 
Consequently, sheltering this industry from the effects of monetary 
restraint would likely require a tighter rein on the growth rate of 
bank reserves, deposits, and credit than would otherwise be needed 
to contain inflationary pressures. 
The result of large purchases of agency issues by the 
Federal Reserve during a period of monetary restraint, therefore, 
would be an increase in the amount of direct Treasury debt to be 
absorbed by the private sector, not only in amounts equal to the 
volume of agency issues absorbed in the System's portfolio, but 
also to absorb the Treasury issues sold by the commercial bank 
system as the growth of its reserves and deposits slowed. 
Pressures on market interest rates would thus be intensified 
greatly, and in direct relation to the amount of assistance 
provided to the mortgage market by FNMA and the Federal Home 
Loan Banks. 
It is not surprising, of course, that a program designed 
to supply substantial assistance to the mortgage market in a period 
of monetary restraint would entail substantially higher interest 
rates on market securities. Such a program could accomplish its 
principal objective, within the context of a given overall degree 
of monetary restraint, only by shifting the burden from the housing 
industry to other sectors. Higher interest rates are a part of the 
process through which the degree of restraint on other sectors is 
intensified—a process, unfortunately, which would intensify the 
burden of restraint borne by State and local governments as well 
as that experienced by businesses borrowing in money and capital 
markets. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-4- 1731 
1.73G 
> 
The increased pressure on market interest rates would 
not, however, be reflected fully in yields on mortgages, since 
supplies of funds in this market would be relatively better 
sustained by the increased Federal support. For private lenders 
able to shift the composition of their portfolio acquisitions, 
therefore, mortgages would become less attractive relative to 
corporate and other securities. Private participation in the 
mortgage market would thus tend to decline, and the needed amount 
of Federal support to achieve a sustainment of mortgage credit 
flows would be that much larger. 
A more important source of reduction in private credit 
flows to the mortgage market might result, however, from the impact 
of higher market rates of interest on inflows of deposits and 
shares to nonbank thrift institutions. The evidence of recent 
years makes it clear that higher interest rates on market 
instruments have the effect of diverting flows of funds from 
these institutions to the market. It would have to be expected, 
therefore, that a proposal to subsidize housing finance by 
shifting the rise in interest rates to other borrowers would 
magnify the effects of tight money on the deposits and shares 
of nonbank intermediaries who specialize in mortgage lending. 
The proposal thus seeks to provide shelter for home-
building in a period of monetary restraint by means that would 
seem to be largely self-defeating. It would tend to discourage 
private lenders from acquiring mortgages by making them relatively 
less attractive, and it would tend to dry up the inflow of deposits 
and shares to nonbank savings institutions which, historically, 
have been one of the major sources of new funds available for 
mortgage lending. And it would create serious problems, 
meanwhile, for State and local governments forced to pay higher 
borrowing rates, for small businesses hurt by tighter lending 
policies pursued by banks, and for financial intermediaries such 
as mutual savings banks—who would suffer the effects of 
disintermediation as a result of higher market interest rates, 
but who do not have access to FHLB credit to cushion the effects 
of a deposit decline, as do the savings and loan associations. 
A constructive step that Congress could take to ease 
the pressures on the mortgage market would be to reduce the 
Federal deficit to more manageable portions, and there are 
encouraging signs that this will be done. As you well know, 
other steps are being taken by the States and the Congress to 
improve the flexibility of the mortgage market in competing for 
funds. Actions of that kind, directed toward maintaining a flow 
of private funds into mortgages, offer the best hope for solving 
the problems of financing homebuilding. 

A t-yrx^y 
The Honorable John Spatkman 
-5- 
" 
I am sending copies of this letter to Senator Proxmire 
and Senator Bennett. 
Sincerely, 

1738 
^ % 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
5/10/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 10, 1968 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of May 7, 1968, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointments of William L. Roberts and Raymond C. Laverty 
as assistant examiners and Bruce A. Cassella, at present 
an assistant examiner, as an examiner, for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. Please advise the salary rate 
for Mr. Cassella and the effective dates of the 
appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
R I C H M O N D 
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 
23213 
Item No. 5 
5/10/68 
fey 10. 1918. 
Io«r* of ilroetori, 
®nion Trait Canity of KaryUnd, 
Baltlntro, KavyUnd 21203. 
taktlflMtl 
V M I M m l 
fimm 
I n k of llihwid, ittlng on 
bokalf •! and vBiir authority dalogatod by the lo«rd of 
Oovoraom of tho Vodornl I w i m tystan and pursuant to 
jMrovUlana of tntloa 2 U of tka fodoral U n r v e Act, has 
approval aa additional iavwiMtt of $107,000 In bank 
proniaaa by Onion Truat Conpasy of Maryland, in aonnoatlon 
with conatruation of its aporationa building in Baltiaoro. 
Tonrt vary truly, 
John L. Voakar, 
•lea Fraaidant. 
