MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 16, 1972 

1267 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 16, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
1/ Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

1268 
5/16/72 
-11-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco on May 4; by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
on May 9; and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, 
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas on May 11, 1972, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire 
the shares of Citibail, S.A., a leasing company to be formed in Paris, 
France. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
.Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Texas 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to North Freeway Bank, Houston, Texas, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Securities 
• J • • ' : i , ' ' - ' ' 
and Exchange Commission regarding its draft proposal for an Oil and 
Qas Investment Act of 1972. A copy of the letter is attached as 
-item No. 3. 

1269 
5/16/72 
-11-
The Board unanimously approved an increase of 13 positions 
in the employment ceiling of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
and an estimated increase of $63,819 in the Bank's budget for the 
second half of 1972, in connection with an expansion of the Little 
Rock immediate payment area. A copy of the letter sent to President 
Francis is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved an increase of 16 positions 
in the employment ceiling of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
and an estimated increase of $130,000 in the Bank's budget for 1972, 
in connection with an expansion of the Omaha immediate payment area. 
A copy of the letter sent to President Clay is attached as Item No. 5. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Report on competitive factors. The Board unanimously approved 
the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and 
assumption of liabilities of Poplar State Bank, Poplar, Wisconsin, 
by National Bank of Commerce in Superior, Superior, Wisconsin, with 
the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of Poplar 
State Bank by National Bank of Commerce in Superior 
would eliminate existing competition between the two 
~ banlcs7 The ov.erall effect of the proposed transaction 
on competition would be adverse. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting at this point. 

1270 
5/16/72 
-11-
Request for hearing. In August 1971, the Board delegated 
authority to the Reserve Banks to approve some one-bank holding com-
pany formations and established certain guidelines for the Reserve 
Banks to follow in acting on the applications. Various groups and 
individuals representing small banks had argued that the guidelines 
made transfer of ownership of small banks difficult and in some cases 
impossible. The American Bankers Association had requested a hearing 
on the guidelines, and in a memorandum dated May 9, 1972, Mr. Leavitt 
recommended that the Board grant the request. 
Discussion indicated that although it was not customary to 
hold hearings on guidelines, the Board felt that it would be appro-
priate to give all concerned parties an opportunity to present their 
views orally because of the impact of the guidelines and the manner 
in which they were being applied by the Reserve Banks. 
It was thereupon agreed that an informal oral presentation 
Would be held before available members of the Board. A copy of the 
notice subsequently issued is attached as Item No. 6. 
Pending legislation. The Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban 'Affairs' ijad 'fe^e^trel the Board1 s views on two Mils: S. 3001, 
which would establish a Federal Financing Bank; and S. 3215, which 
would provide a Federal interest subsidy to State and local governments 

6 
5/16/72 
-11-
that chose to issue taxable securities. Attached to a memorandum 
from the Division of Research and Statistics dated May 15, 1972, was 
a draft response commenting on both bills. At today's meeting an 
alternative draft with regard to S. 3215 was distributed. 
Several members of the Board indicated that they needed more 
time to consider the draft that was distributed today, and action 
was deferred until a later meeting. 
Interest on deposits. On January 25, 1972, the Board discussed 
a practice whereby several member banks in Texas paid interest on time 
deposits by computing the interest on the basis of the customer's time 
and demand deposits with the bank. The Legal Division had recommended 
publication of an interpretation of Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, 
that would indicate that such a practice constitutes payment of interest 
on a demand deposit in violation of the statutory and regulatory prohi-
bition against such payments. However, the Board deferred action on 
the proposal until the Reserve Banks and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation had been given an opportunity to comment. 
A memorandum from the Legal Division dated April 18, 1972, 
summarized the comments received. The comments on the interpretation 
were favorable; however, the problem did not appear to be a matter of 
concern except to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Therefore, the 
Legal Division recommended that, in lieu of a published interpretation, 

1272 
5/16/72 
-6-
the substance of the proposal be embodied in a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas and that the text of the letter be sent to all 
Reserve Banks. A draft letter to the Dallas Bank was attached. 
Daring today's discussion Governor Brimmer said he thought the 
problem was more serious than the staff analysis indicated, and he 
would prefer to issue a general interpretation as well as send a 
letter to the Reserve Banks. Governors Robertson and Sheehan also 
preferred this approach. However, Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell 
and Daane thought that a letter would be sufficient to deal with the 
Problem. 
After further discussion failed to develop a consensus for 
Publication of an interpretation, the Board unanimously approved the 
transmittal of the letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas in the 
form attached as Item No. 7, with the understanding that the substance 
would be sent to all Reserve Banks. The Board requested that the Legal 
Divis 
ion report in three months on whether publication of an interpre-
tation would be desirable. 
Thrift institutions. In a memorandum dated May 8, 1972, the 
Legal Division and the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed 
Pending applications of bank holding companies to acquire or retain 
savings and loan associations. The memorandum noted the opposition of 

W
^
m 
1273 
5/16/72 
-11-
Chairman Preston Martin of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to adding 
the operation of thrift institutions to the list of permissible 
activities. In view of Chairman Martin's opposition and the possibi-
lity that he might seek Congressional action to prevent the Board 
from permitting bank holding companies to operate a savings and loan 
association if the Board published a notice of proposed rulemaking 
on the activity, the staff recommended that the Board not hold a 
hearing on the question at this time. Instead, the staff proposed 
two alternative courses of action that the Board might take: (1) 
notify the applicants that their applications had been received, but 
that they would not be processed until a determination was antici-
pated with respect to the permissibility of the activity; or (2) return 
the applications, stating that the Board had determined not to take any 
action with respect to the operation of a savings and loan associa-
tion at this time. The staff recommended the first alternative. The 
staff also recommended that a letter be sent to the Reserve Banks 
advising them of the Board's decision and suggesting that they try to 
dissuade bank holding companies from filing new applications to acquire 
savings and loan associations until further action was taken. 
At today's meeting Chairman Burns suggested conferring with 
Chairman Martin about the possibility of seeking Congressional clari-
fication of the issue. However, Mr. Cardon said that he thought it was 
f 

m?m 
5/16/72 
-8-
a political issue that the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs would prefer not to have to deal with at this time. 
Discussion indicated general agreement that operation of a 
savings and loan association was closely related to banking; however, 
there was disagreement as to whether the balance of public interest 
considerations would favor approval of the activity for bank holding 
companies. Governor Robertson noted that the Congress had enacted 
different sets of laws to deal with banks and savings and loan associa-
tions. Therefore, he felt that if the Board acted to merge two types 
of savings institutions, it would violate the spirit of those laws. 
Governor Brimmer also felt that bank holding companies should 
not be permitted to operate savings and loan associations. He felt 
that the Congress had given the Board responsibility for a decision on 
the issue, and that in fairness to the applicants such a decision 
should be made promptly. 
Governor Mitchell was in favor of permitting bank holding 
companies to operate savings and loans in cases where there would be 
no anticompetitive effects. Governor Daane indicated that although 
he had not made a definite decision, he had some inclination toward 
operation of savings and loans as a permissible activity. Chairman 
Burns spoke of the possible benefit to the flow of funds to mortgage 

1275 
5/16/72 
-11-
loans if bank holding companies acquired savings and loan subsidiaries 
and used them for expansion of that kind of activity. 
Continuing discussion failed to develop a consensus for taking 
any action at today's meeting and it was understood that Chairman Burns 
would confer with Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs about the general question of bank holding 
company operation of thrift institutions. 
Midland Mortgage Corporation. In a memorandum dated May 8, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of (1) the applications of Midland Mortgage Corporation and its subsid-
iary, Port Huron Financial Company, both of Detroit, Michigan, to become 
bank holding companies through acquisition of shares of Peoples Bank of 
Port Huron, Port Huron, Michigan, and (2) the application of Midland 
JL'i/.t ; v:, ?j-;.vj.-\.o: ci' ? 
V 
" .1 . / 
!• U .. .,< • 
ri 
Mortgage Corporation to continue to engage in the activities of a 
Mortgage company. The Banking Markets Section concurred in the recom-
mendation. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications, with the 
understanding that an order reflecting that decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. It was also understood that Governor 
Brimmer would prepare a concurring statement. 
Southwest Bancshares. In a memorandum dated March 10, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 

5/16/72 
-10-
application of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to Continental National Bank of Fort 
Worth, Fort Worth, Texas. Other documentation included a memorandum 
from the Legal Division, the Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
and the Banking Markets Section dated April 14, 1972, which submitted 
supplemental information that had been requested at the meeting on 
April 11. 
At today's meeting the application was approved, Governor 
Robertson dissenting. Governor Brimmer indicated that his favorable 
position was tentative and would depend on the basis upon which an 
affirmative position would be supported. It was understood that 
implementing documents would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Centran Bancshares Corporation. In a memorandum dated April 7, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the applications of Centran Bancshares Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, 
to acquire shares of The Richland Trust Company, Mansfield, Ohio; The 
Farmers and Savings Bank, Loudonville, Ohio; and The Sutton State Bank, 
Attica, Ohio. The acquisitions would be effected through the -acquisi-
tion by Centran Bancshares Corporation of all the shares of Mid-Ohio 
Banc-Shares, Inc., Mansfield, Ohio, a bank holding company that owned 
the three banks. The Banking Markets Section concurred in the recom-
mendation of approval. 

1277 
5/16/72 
-11-
The applications were approved, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting with respect to the acquisition of The Richland 
Trust Company. The Board also authorized issuance of an order reflec-
ting that decision. A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 8, 
along with a statement reflecting the dissents of Governors Robertson 
and Brimmer. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
V Jj >J 

1278 
B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
5/16/72 
Unf c.rn'. 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 16, 1972 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 24, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to 
purchase and hold all of the shares of Citibail, S.A. ("Citibail"), 
Paris, France, at a cost of approximately $2,000,000, provided 
$500,000 of such shares are acquired within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Citibail by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Citibail if Citibail at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if Citibail establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in France or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Citibail as it may require from 
time to time; and 

v 
u«n 
1279 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Citibail 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Citibail were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by Citibail xn France m the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of Citibail. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very-truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1 2 8 0 
Item No, 2 
5/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(l2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
^ess directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to 
N°rth Freeway Bank, Houston, Texas"" ("Bank"). The bank into which 
Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means to facili-
tate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the 
pr°Posed acquisition of the shares of the successor organization is 
tr®ated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
aCcordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
atul views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
^ 
the time this application was filed, American General Insurance 
^Pany, Houston, Texas, owned more than 32 per cent of the voting shares 
Crw X a s Commerce Bancshares so that an acquisition of shares by Texas 
tyj^erce would constitute an indirect acquisition by American General. 
a separate application with respect to the acquisition of 
^ow*68 ° f B a n k w a s f i l e d by American General, as a bank holding company. 
?Ver* d u r l n 8 t h e period of the Board's consideration of these 
*ttd 
a t i o n s» American General effected a divestiture of its ownership 
^ , control of voting shares of Texas Commerce and has ceased to be 
^ at*k holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. Accordingly, 
General's application indirectly to acquire shares of Bank 
4a b e e n dismissed, as moot, by Order of the Board (1972 Federal 
Bulletin 7650). 

I 
-2-
1281 
Texas Commerce controls one bank which is located in 
Houston, Texas, and has deposits of $1.0 billion, representing 3.7 
Per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. Upon 
acquisition of control of Bank ($4.1 million in deposits), Applicant's 
Position in relation to the State's other banking organizations and 
holding companies would remain unchanged and Applicant's share of 
^eposits in the State would not increase significantly. (All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company acquisitions 
and formations through February 29, 1972.) 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in Texas 
and the second largest in the Houston banking market, controls approxi-
mate ly 16 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the Houston 
area. In addition, Applicant controls between 20 and 24.9 per cent 
of the voting shares of each of six other banks (including 24.9 per 
cent of the voting shares of Bank) which are located in the Houston 
Market and hold aggregate deposits of $157.6 million, representing 2.6 
V 
Per cent of commercial bank deposits in the Houston area. 
Bank, located in the Houston banking market approximately 10 
mUes north of Applicant's subsidiary bank, ranks 122nd among 145 banks 
^ the market and controls .1 per cent of commercial bank deposits 
^Applicant has filed applications with the Board to acquire all of 
the remaining outstanding voting shares of each of two of these six 
banks in addition to Bank. 

-2-
1282 
there. Bank was organized in 1970 by individuals associated with 
the predecessor of Applicant's subsidiary bank which has maintained 
a close working relationship with Bank since its organization. The 
service area of Applicant's subsidiary bank overlaps Bank's service 
area and some competition apparently exists between Bank and the larger 
downtown banks. The disparity in size between Bank and Applicant's 
subsidiary bank and Bank's predominantly suburban-rertail character reduce 
the prospect of meaningful competition developing between these banks. 
Iri view of the facts of record, including the nature and character of the 
aforementioned relationships and, particularly in view of Bank's small 
size, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
w°uld not significantly lessen existing or potential competition in the 
Houston area; and competitive considerations are consistent with approval. 
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary bank 
is regarded as satisfactory, management capable and prospects appear 
favorable. The financial condition and management of Bank are deemed 
Satisfactory and its future prospects appear favorable and consistent 
t'ith approval. The banking needs of the residents of the Houston banking 
i 
Market. including those in Bank's immediate service area, appear to be 
a<*equately served at the present time by existing institutions. However, 
applicant' s proposal to provide, through bank, services presently 
available only from larger downtown Houston banks, should contribute to the 
c°nvenience of banking customers in the area. Considerations relating 
c° the convenience and needs of the relevant area are consistent with 

1283 
-2-
aPProval of the application and lend some weight thereto. It is the 
Sard's judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction is in 
public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
ttle reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
0f this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
0f this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
to 
°ard> or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEAL] 
^Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Ch f1 
ell» D a a n e> Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
lr*nan Burns and Governor Maisel. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
1284 
Item No. 3 
5/16/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1972 
Mr. Solomon Freedman, Director, 
Division of Corporate Regulations, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
500 North Capitol Street, N. W. , 
Washington, D. C. 20549 
Dear Mr. Freedman: 
" 
You have requested the views of the Board of Governors 
on a draft proposal for an "Oil and Gas Investment Act of 1972 , 
which the Securities and Exchange Commission has been directed 
to present to Congress before June 14, 19 72 (hereinafter SEC 
draft bill"). The Board's comments are limited to aspects of §§ ) 
and 15 of the draft bill which relate to the Board's present 
statutory responsibilities under section 7 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934. The areas commented on include problems 
involved in attempting to define "extension of credit", antici-
pating a secondary market in, and the listing of, securities 
consisting of shares in oil and gas investment programs (herein-
after "oil and gas programs"), and forbidding the circumvention 
of the Board's margin regulations through exchange of programs 
for other securities or assessments on programs. 
It may be noted initially that the SEC draft bill would 
regulate the instalment sale of many more oil and gas programs^ 
than are presently subject to the credit restraints of Regulation T, 
under the interpretation of March 24, 1972. The bill would include 
in its coverage programs sold by issuers as well as those sold by 
brokers. It would also deny use of the intra-state exemption ol 
the Securities Act of 1933 for oil and gas programs, and thus 
require them to be registered with the Commission. 
Section 15 of the SEC draft bill would permit the sale 
of oil and gas programs on instalment payments only if there were 
no more than three instalments, to be paid in full within one year, 

1285 
Mr. Solomon Freadman 
and the purchaser is not subject to any penalty for failure to pay 
any instalment. The draft bill would then provide, however that 
payment pursuant to the specified conditions would not be deemed 
to be an extension of credit" under the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (hereinafter the '"34 Act"), and that the distribution of 
such a security shall not "involve an arrangement for the extension 
of credit." 
The term "extension of credit" is used in numerous contexts 
in the '34 Act, for example in section 11(d), governing credit 
extension by a person who is both a broker and a dealer. It also 
seems probable that an argument will be made, despite limiting 
language, that any definition contained in the bill, if enacted 
into law, should apply in other contexts. For these reasons, the 
Board believes it would be preferable to use different language 
to accomplish the same result. The enclosure contains suggested 
language for this purpose. 
The enclosed suggested language, revising section 15 of 
the SEC draft bill, would also limit the privilege of paying in 
instalments to the original issue of oil and gas programs. Although 
it is agreed that, at present, there does not appear to be any 
secondary market in oil and gas programs, the Board believes consi-
deration should be given to the possibility that such a market 
might develop in the future. Oil and gas programs being sold seem 
increasingly to exhibit the characteristics of common stock. 
The suggested language for section 15 would also clarify 
that a legal action or penalty to enforce payment of an instalment 
is a "penalty", and provide that the purchaser's interest shall be 
reduced pro rata for failure to make a payment. The latter change 
would be intended to make it clear that the customer has no right 
to obtain a greater proportionate share in an oil and gas venture 
than he has presently paid for, in cash. 
Additionally, the suggested language for section 15 would 
Provide that an oil and gas program may not be registered on an 
exchange or exchanged for an exchange-registered security until 
all instalments have been paid. This suggestion is directed in 
part at the possibility 
doubtless remote at present -- that 
oil and gas programs could themselves become registered on a nation-
al securities exchange, or that new and presently unforseen exchange 
facilities might be created upon which such programs could be traded. 
The experiment of the Chicago Board of. Trade with creation of a new 

Mr. Solomon Freedman 
- 3 -
exchange for trading in options upon securities is an example of 
the creation of such a new facility. The Board's existing authori 
to prescribe margin requirements for the issuing transaction 
should be maintained for securities that are so registered. 
As to the exchange of oil and gas programs for other 
'securities, it seems clear that existing margin regulations could 
he circumvented, if such exchange were permitted before all instal 
Stents had been paid. Because of the possibility that some method 
ttould bo found to use such exchange as a means of circumvention, 
even after all instalments had been paid, the enclosure contains 
suggested language for an additional sub-section to be added to 
section 9, forbidding such exchange if the effect is to circumvent 
the Board's margin regulations. 
It is trusted that the above comments, and the enclosure 
Will be of assistance to you in fulfilling the Congressional direc 
tive. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan, 
Assistant Secretary of the Board. 
End osure 

Enclosure I 
Offers of Exchange; Redemptions; Assessments 
Section 9(d) 
* 
* 
* 
It shall be unlawful for any registered oil program to 
gake or cause to be made to the holder of a security an offer of 
> ' ; / ! • ; 
' 
.
.
. 
exchange or a mandatory assessment where the effect of such offer 
SHexchange o r mandatory assessment would be to evade or circumvent 
the_margin requirements of Section 7 of the Securities Act of .1934. 
1287 

Enclosure II 
(Language suggested to be added is underscored) 
(Language to be deleted is struck through) 
Periodic Payments or Instalments 
Sec. 15 
(a) It shall be unlawful for any registered oil program 
to issue any security, the purchase price of which is payable in 
instalments -
(1) unless such instalments, after the initial 
payment required by the terms of the offer-
ing, are required to be made to the Issuer 
in equal amounts in not more than three pay-
ments and to be paid in full no later than 
12 months from the date of purchase; 
(2) if such security provides for any penalty 
or forfeiture of the holder's interest in 
such oil program or makes the holder liable 
to any legal action or proceeding for failure 
to pay any instalment. 
(3) unless such .security provides for the pro 
rata reduction of the total interest sold 
for failure to pay any instalment. 
(b) The payment in instalments of the purchase price of 
a security issued by a registered oil program pursuant to subsection 
(a) when such security is initially issued shall not be subject to 
the__marEin and other requirements, including those relating to the 

1289 
arranging for credit, of section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934, and rules and regulations issued by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System thereunder, unless such security is 
or will be registered on a national securities exchange or exchanged 
for a security that is so registered prior to the payment in full 
of such purchase price shall-net-be-deemed-to-be-an-exfcension-ef 
e red i fc-byany-per sen-fer-the-purposes-e£-the-Seeurities-Exchange 
Act-e£-1934-nor-sha11-the-disferibution-of-such-a-security-involve 
an-arrangement-for-the-exfeensien-ef-credit-for-sueh-purposes. 

1220 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
I t e m No. 4 
5 / 1 6 / 7 2 
A D D R E S S 
D r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 16, 1972 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors interposes no 
objection to the Federal Reserve. Bank of St. Louis 
plan to extend the 'Little Rock immediate payment 
area and approves an increase of 13 positions in 
the present employment ceiling of 1,296. The Board 
also approves an estimated increase of $63,819 in 
the budget for the second half of 1972. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

B O A R D DF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
• . 
C. 
20551 
1291 
Item No. 5 
5/16/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 18, 1972 
Mr. George H. Clay, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 
64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
The Board of Governors interposes no objec-
tion t:o the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City plan 
for extending the Omaha immediate payment area and 
approves an increase of 16 positions in the present 
employment ceiling of 1,308. The Board also approves 
an estimated increase of $130,000 in the 1972 budget 
for the Tenth Federal Reserve District. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

Item No. J-kS'2 
5/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 225] 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Notice of Oral Presentation Regarding Guidelines Used by 
Federal Reserve Banks in Approving Formation of One-bank 
Holding Companies Under Delegated Authority 
On August 20, 1971, effective September 1, 1971, the Board 
delegated to the individual Federal Reserve Banks certain of its 
Authority to approve the formation of one-bank holding companies 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
CFR 265.2(f) (22)) Simultaneously, the Board provided those 
Banks with certain general guidelines to aid them in the exercise 
delegated authority. Those guidelines provide in pertinent 
Part; 
, ' . s ' 
_ 
. . . The Board expects that the Reserve Banks 
will use their influence in exercising their author-
ity to approve the formation of one-bank holding 
companies to assure that: 
(i) 
if any offer to acquire shares is extended 
to shareholders of the bank, the offer is extended 
to all shareholders of the same class on an equal 
basis; 
(ii) the 
amount borrowed by the holding company 
to purchase the voting shares of the bank does not 
exceed either 50 per cent of the purchase price of 
the shares of the bank or 50 per cent of the equity 
capital of the holding company, the loan will be 
repaid within a reasonable period of time (not to 
exceed 10 years), the interest rate on the loan is 
comparable with other stock collateral loans by the 

•"'A-
: i ' 
1233 
2-
li 
lender to persons of comparable credit standing, and the 
loan is not conditioned upon maintenance of a correspondent 
bank balance with the lender that exceeds the usual needs 
of the bank whose shares are being purchased; and 
(iii) interest on and amortization of the holding company's 
Indebtedness will not exceed, in any year, 50 per cent of the 
holding company's proportionate share of the bank's anticipated 
net: income (after taxes) for that year, unless a higher per-
centage is specifically approved by the Reserve Bank at the 
time of the formation of the holding company. 
! 
The Board has received comments to the effect that these 
guidelines have been applied in a more restrictive manner than is 
desirable and that the guidelines result in undue adverse effects 
uPOn the transferability of bank stock. One such commenting party * 
has requested the opportunity to present its views to the Board 
orally* 
The Board has decided to explore these questions at an 
Oral Presentation before available members of the Board in the 
Board Roam of the Federal Reserve Building at 20th Street and Con-
stitution Avenue, N. V/., Washington, D. C., on June 28, 1972, 
commencing at 10:00 a.m. Interested persons are invited to parti-
cipate .through presenting material orally at the proceeding or 
through the submission of written comments. 
Persons interested in participating in the proceeding by 
Presenting material orally should inform the Secretary of the Board 
in writing not later than June 21, 1972. Written material should 
he submitted by July 12, 1972. All material submitted will be'made 

1 2 9 4 
-3-
Pliable for inspection and copying, upon request, except as pro-
VWed in § 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of 
In format ion. 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective May 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 

12*15 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
•'^oVcoY,•. 
DFTIIR 
11em No. 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
5 / 1 6 / 7 2 
•
p
i 
• m - u i , ^ : . ' 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20U51 
a d l i w e k s ncnr-iAL cunHtGi'UNDttJCc 
T [ ] T i l t ' 
U O A K U 
May 18, 1972 
Mr- Philip E. Coldwell, President 
Fc'«ieral Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
De ar Mr. Col dwell: 
This refers to a number of communications you have sent to 
the Board and individual Board members, the most recent of which is 
dated February 16, 1972, concerning an arrangement among First City 
^tional Bank of Houston, an officer of the bank, and the Houston 
Independent School District involving funds of the school district 
o f which the officer of the bank has successfully bid to become 
Assurer for a period of two years beginning September 1, 1971. 
It is our understanding that the officer of First City 
National Bank purportedly made the bid in his individual capacity, 
arid. that the bid was to pay interest on the average daily net balance 
o f all funds at a rate to be recalculated weekly on the basis of the 
j^hXished average auction rate bid at the preceding week's sale of 
->0~day U.S. Treasury bills. Certain designated funds bear interest 
a t 1.555 percentage points above the Treasury bill rate, and the 
other funds bear interest at 1.665 percentage points above the 
•^fcasury bill rate. 
It is also our understanding that the officer of the bank, 
a°ting iiri his capacity as Treasurer of the school district, has 
offered the funds to First City National Bank. The Treasurer estimate: 
tllat approximately 95 per cent of the funds will usually be maintained 
time deposits, open account, with single maturities of 30 days, 
the 
remaining funds arc to be kept on demand. The bank records 
interest on the funds as interest earned only on the time deposits. 
lle rate of interest varies and is whatever is necessary to fulfill 
•t)lG Treasurer's obligation to the school district. 

1236 
Hr. Philip E. Cold well. 
~ 2 -
After reviewing the facts of the case, the Board is of the 
view that First City National Bank should be considered, for the pur-
Poses of Regulation Q, to have been a party to the bid between the 
officer of the bank and the school district. Among the circumstances 
leading to this conclusion are the facts that the bank recommended the 
•"'Officer' to the school district in connection with the bid; the bank has 
Pledged its own securities as collateral for the school district funds 
to fulfill the obligation of the bank officer as Treasurer to secure 
the funds; all or substantially all of the funds have been channelled to 
the bank; and i:be interest paid on the funds by the bank is calculated 
so as to meet.the interest payments promised by the bank officer to the 
school district. 
The Board has previously ruled that, where a member bank pays 
a customer who maintains a demand deposit in a prescribed amount a 
higher rate of interest on a time deposit than is paid to customers 
Who do not maintain demand deposits, the incremental interest is actually 
Paid as "compensation" for the use of funds constituting the demand 
deposit and b ^ v e s a violation of the prohibition against paying 
Interest on a demand deposit. 
The Board believes that: the arrangement involving First City 
C l o n a l Bank gives rise to a payment of interest on a demand deposit. 
amount of interest paid by the bank on the time deposits is calculated 
r.o as to y i eld a certain rate of return on all funds on deposit, both 
tirae and demand. A)) indication that interest is actually being paid on 
a demand deposit in this situation is that the rate of interest on the 
time deposits may be computed only after the amount of interest to be 
I»aid on all the funds is determined and varies with the amount of the 
demand deposit. 
it also appears that the arrangement entered into by First 
City National Bank may involve an agreement or understanding (whether 
or not in writing) that time deposits of the type on which the interest 
rate ceiling has been suspended will be "rolled over." The-Board 
_ 
regards such an agreement or understanding as a violation of the spirit 
of the. interpretation the Board issued at the time it suspended the 
interest rate ceiling on 30-89 day single maturity time deposits of 
at least $.100,000. 
Published Interpretations, M 3370(b). Of 
course, if there is an underlying instrument or contract or any informal 
Understanding or agreement providing for automatic renewal of the 
^posits at maturity, the. deposits would fall within the definition 
^ 
of "multiple maturity -time deposit" (§'-21.7,1 Cg) of Regulation Q). -and.-: 
•the" maximum rate that may be paid on s u c l r a deposit would apply.-

1297 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell 
- 3 -
The Board would appreciate your communicating these views 
to First City National Bank and taking whatever steps are necessary 
to bring the arrangement into conformity with Regulation Q, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1288 
Item No. 8 
5/16/12 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CENTRAN BANCSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Centran Bancshares Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied, in three separate applications as set forth below, for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire:1) 99.33 per cent of the voting shares of The Richland Trust 
Company, Mansfield, Ohio ("Richland Bank"); 2) 98.83 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of The Farmers and Savings Bank, Loudonville, Ohio 
("Farmers Bank"); and 3) 97.61 per cent of the voting shares of The 
s^tton State Bank, Attica, Ohio ("Sutton Bank"). The above transactions 
w°uld be effected through the acquisition by Centran Bancshares Corporation 
o f all the shares of Mid-Ohio Banc-Shares, Inc., Mansfield, Ohio, a 
tegistered bank holding company which presently owns the specified 
Percentages of the three banks that are to be acquired. 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in 
accordance with S 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the applications and 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant has two subsidiary banks with total deposits of $1.2 
b lUion, and ranks as the fourth largest banking organization and second 
la*gest bank holding company in Ohio with 5.4 per cent of the total com-
mercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking data are as of 

-2-
1239 
June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company acquisitions approved 
through March 31, 1972.) Applicant's lead bank, Central National Bank 
°f Cleveland, is headquartered in Cleveland and operates 48 branches 
throughout Cuyahoga County; its other subsidiary bank, American Bank of 
Commerce, is headquartered in Akron and operates 16 branches throughout 
Summit County. 
Mid-Ohio Banc-Shares, Inc., by virtue of its control of Rich-
land Bank ($63.9 million deposits), Farmers Bank ($12.3 million deposits), 
and Sutton Bank ($6.9 million deposits), ranks as the State's eighth 
largest bank holding company. As a result of consummation of the pro-
posal, the three banks presently owned by Mid-Ohio would be acquired 
by 
Applicant, and Applicant's share of deposits in the State would be 
increased by .4 per cent, resulting in Applicant becoming the State's 
third largest banking organization while remaining its second largest 
hank holding company. 
In contrast to Applicant, Mid-Ohio, as one of Ohio's smaller 
hank holding companies, has been restricted in its acquisitions primarily 
to smaller banks located in medium size cities or rural communities. As a 
result thereof, Mid-Ohio serves markets separate and distant from those 
served by Applicant's present subsidiaries. Richland Bank, the second 
largest of five banks in Richland County, is headquartered and operates four 
o f its branches in Mansfield, Ohio, the county seat of Richland County, which 
is 74 miles southwest of Cleveland and 64 miles southeast of Akron; it also 
°Perates five other branches within a radius of 18 miles from Mansfield, 
farmers Bank, the fourth largest of five banks in Ashland County, is head-
bartered in Loudonville, located 83 miles southwest of Cleveland and 91 

1300 
-2-
mi-les southeast of Akron, and operates its single branch five miles north-
West of Loudonville. Sutton Bank, the sixth largest of eight banks in 
seneca County, operates its only office in Attica, located 75 miles south-
west of Cleveland and 84 miles west of Akron. There is no significant 
existing competition, nor potential therefor, between Applicant's sub-
sidiary banks and the banks to be acquired, primarily due to the distances 
separating the banks (the nearest office of Applicant's subsidiaries to 
any office of the proposed subsidiaries is approximately 45 miles), the 
Presence of numerous banking alternatives, and Ohio's restrictive branching 
laws, which generally limit a bank to branching within its home county. 
Although consummation of the proposal could tend to foreclose 
the development of some potential competition between Applicant and 
Mid -Ohio, it appears unlikely that Applicant would enter the areas 
served by the three proposed subsidiaries, or that Mid-Ohio possesses 
the necessary financial resources for meaningful entry into the areas 
Presently served by Applicant's existing subsidiaries. Consummation 
o f the proposal would remove Mid-Ohio as a holding company in the 
competitive structure of Ohio banking; hox^ever, the Board does not 
c°nsider that this result alone requires denial of the present proposal 
l n light of Mid-Ohio's relatively small size and the nature and size 
o f its banking subsidiaries. On the basis of the foregoing and the 
facts of record, the Board concludes that the competitive considerations 
are consistent with approval of the applications. 

-2-
1301 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and the banks involved are 
regarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval of the applications. 
Xt does not appear that any significant banking needs are going unserved 
in the areas served by each of the proposed subsidiary banks. However, 
affiliation with Applicant should result in each of the proposed sub-
sidiary banks being able to offer its customers new and expanded banking 
services. Specifically, through Applicants resources, each of the 
Proposed subsidiaries will be able to provide increased business loan 
assistance, trust services, and an expanded mortgage lending program. 
The ability of each of the proposed subsidiary banks to offer these 
additional services should benefit the residents of its respective 
service area by providing an additional source of complete banking 
services. Thus, considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
°f the communities involved are consistent with, and lend slight weight 
toward, approval of the applications. It is the Board's judgment that 
^ e transactions would be in the public interest, and that the applica-
tions should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved i 
for the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 

1302 
-5-
o£ this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective May 19, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
1/ Approval of acquisition of The Richland Trust Company. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
and Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governor Maisel. 
Approval of acquisition of The Farmers and Savings Bank and The Sutton 
State Bank. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor Maisel. 

13C3 
STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
CONCURRING IN PART AND DISSENTING IN PART 
We concur in the Board's action insofar as it relates to 
Applicant's acquisition of Farmers Bank and Sutton Bank. We would 
deny approval of Applicant's acquisition of Richland Bank, because 
such action would have clearly adverse effects on potential competition 
in the Mansfield market. Since the proposal before the Board involves 
Applicant's acquisition of the three banks through the direct acquisi-
tion of Mid-Ohio Banc-Shares, a registered bank holding company, we 
Would condition approval of the acquisition of the parent holding 
company upon Applicant subsequently divesting itself of its interest 
in Richland Bank. 
It appears that alternative means of entry into the Mansfield 
Market are available to Applicant more conducive to the promotion of 
competition than its acquisition of the second largest and one of the 
dominant banking organizations in that market. With 145 manufacturing 
firms employing 15,000 workers, the City of Mansfield (about 60,000 
Population) serves as the industrial and economic center for all of 
Richland County (about 130,000 population). If the present proposal 
Were denied, we believe that Applicant would attempt to participate 
in the economic activity in that area either through the acquisition 
one of the smaller banks in the county or through de novo entry. 
The record provides ample evidence that Applicant could enter the 
Mansfield market de novo. As Ohio's second largest bank holding 
company and its fourth largest banking organization, Applicant possesses 

1394 
-2-
both the management personnel and financial resources for meaningful 
Participation in the Mansfield market through the establishment of 
a new bank. However, as a result of the Board's action, the possibility 
that Applicant would explore alternative avenues of entry into the 
area is virtually eliminated, and the development of potential competition 
foreclosed. Since there are no benefits relating to the convenience 
and needs that would outweigh this adverse competitive effect, we 
ttould deny Applicant's acquisition of Richland Bank. 
While not determinative of our action here, we are also 
somewhat concerned by the reasoning process followed by the majority 
in evaluating the overall effect of Applicant's proposal on competition 
in Ohio. The Board's analysis quite properly includes an examination 
of the effects on competition in each of the respective markets served 
bV the subsidiaries of Applicant and Mid-Ohio. However, in a proposal 
involving the acquisition of a holding company by another holding com-
pany, we believe that consideration and analysis must also be given to 
the long-range effect of consummation of such a proposal on competition 
among holding companies, as well as the effect that the elimination of 
an independent holding company would have on a State's banking structure. 
every small and newly formed bank holding company is absorbed by a 
larger or dominant holding company, the future for the development 
smaller regional holding companies appears bleak. In our view, 
competition among banking organizations would be better served by pre-
serving and encouraging small or regional bank holding companies. 

1305 
-3-
Furthermore, we believe that the Board has the responsibility to 
exercise its authority under the Bank Holding Company Act to ensure 
that the establishment and development of small viable holding com-
panies is not thwarted by larger holding companies attempting to take 
°ver the lead bank of such companies soon after their organization. 
M*y 19, 1972. 
