MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 5, 1969 
' • .7»; ' 
• 
* 
• 
- 
' 
< 
. \ •. • ; > 
•.: 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, February 5, 1969. The Board met in the 
Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Lynch, Mertz, Noble, and Plotkin, 
and Mrs. Duerson of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy, Ettin, Lawrence, and Wiles of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Cloth, Harris, Kline, 
Poundstone, Shantz, and Shuter, and 
Misses Greene and McShane of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Foreign banking matters. A letter to Wells Fargo Bank, 
"' 
, '
 % 
1
 '•'! ' 
'. V
!
 W , 
r 
' 
nr.'.4a i V/': 
- • v 
National Association, San Francisco, California, granting 

4 4 7 
2/5/69 
-10-
permission for the establishment of a branch in Luxembourg was 
approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
A letter to Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association, San Francisco, California, granting it permission 
to acquire the shares of a commercial bank to be established 
in Lagos, Nigeria, with a branch in Port Harcourt, through 
incorporation of the bank's two existing Nigerian branches was 
approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the com-
petitive factors involved in the proposed merger of State National 
Bank of Alabama, Decatur, Alabama, with Central Bank and Trust 
Company, Birmingham, Alabama, pursuant to which the resulting 
bank, to be known as Central State Bank of Alabama, would operate 
under the charter of Central Bank and Trust Company contained 
the following conclusion: 
Competition now existing between State 
National Bank of Alabama, Decatur, and Central 
Bank and Trust Company, Birmingham, is not 
significant. However, the proposal would fore-
close the possibility of competition developing 
in the future. Overall, the effect of the 
proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
While there was no disagreement with the conclusion, 
members of the Board suggested that reference be made in the 
text of the report to the absorption of exchange charges by 
Central Bank and Trust Company to gain a competitive advantage. 

2/5/69 
-3-
They noted that in the opinion of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta's research staff a principal reason for proposing to 
merge under the charter of Central was to institute the 
practice of absorbing exchange at the resulting bank's branches. 
That would appear to give the State's third largest bank, and 
only bank with multi-county branches, an unfair competitive 
edge over member banks for correspondent banking business. 
Subject to the understanding that a reference to the 
foregoing matter would be included in the text of the report, 
the report was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Island State Bank. Island State Bank, Patchogue, New 
York, had applied for permission to merge First National Bank 
of Bay Shore, Bay Shore, New York, and the recommendations of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Board's staff 
were favorable. 
After a discussion during which it was noted that a 
competitive factor report had not yet been received from the 
Department of Justice but hopefully would be available before 
an order and statement on the case were completed, the application 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that an order 
and statement would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 

5 
2/5/69 
-10-
Dacotah Bank Holding Company. Dacotah Bank Holding 
Company, Aberdeen, South Dakota, which presently owned a majority 
of the shares of Security Bank, Webster, South Dakota, had applied 
for approval of action to become a registered bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of the following South Dakota banks: 
Farmers & Merchants Bank, Aberdeen; Citizens State Bank, Clark; 
and Citizens Bank of Mobridge, Mobridge. The recommendations of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and the Board's staff 
were favorable. 
After discussion the application was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting 
the decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Implementation of OTC margin legislation. Pursuant to 
Public Law 90-437, an amendment to the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 that was signed July 29, 1968, the Board's authority over 
stock market credit had been broadened to cover credit extended 
for the purchasing or carrying of certain securities not registered 
on a national securities exchange. The legislation left to the 
Board the timing of, and selection of criteria for, the application 
of margin requirements to such securities, known as "over the 
counter" (OTC) stocks. 
On December 20, 1968, the Board considered proposals 
contained in a staff memorandum of December 16, 1968, for 

450 
2/5/69 
-10-
implementing the OTC margin legislation through amendments to 
Regulation G, Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, or 
Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered 
Equity Securities, Regulation T, Credit by Brokers, Dealers, 
and Members of National Securities Exchanges, and Regulation U, 
Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
Registered Stocks. The primary purpose of the proposed amend-
ments, which were to be published for comment, was to include in 
the regulations criteria under which the Board would select the 
OTC stocks that would be subject to the margin and other require-
ments of the regulations. 
At that time the Board directed its staff to confer with 
the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission with regard to 
certain problems seen by the latter in the proposals, and also 
to ascertain the views of the National Association of Securities 
Dealers. A committee consisting of Governors Mitchell, Maisel, 
and Brimmer was appointed to review with the staff the results 
of the consultations. 
In a memorandum of January 29, 1969, the staff reported that 
the consultations had been held and the results discussed with the 
Board committee. It was stated to be the recommendation of the 
committee that proposals for amending the margin regulations be 
published for comment in the form originally presented to the 

451 
2/5/69 
-10-
Board on December 20, 1968, (though with certain editorial improve-
ments incorporated) as soon as the Securities and Exchange 
Commission completed action on a rule presently under consideration 
with respect to market makers in OTC margin stocks. 
However, the staff material, as supplemented by oral 
comments at today's meeting, brought out that certain problems 
remained within the framework of the proposed amendments. 
First, investigation had revealed rather significant 
shifts over a period of time in the number of market makers 
in various OTC stocks, and that shifting would affect inclusion 
of an OTC stock on the Board's margin list because of the 
applicability of one of the criteria pursuant to which OTC stocks 
would be selected for that purpose. In the circumstances, the 
staff suggested that the Board consider delegating authority 
to the staff, possibly under supervision of a Board committee, 
to make exceptions to the market-maker test in those cases 
where special circumstances produced a mechanical miss of the 
test but other characteristics strongly indicated that the stock 
in question should be included, in the public interest, on the 
margin list. 
(Note: After consideration of the aforementioned sug-
gestion, the Board delegated authority to the Director of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation.) 

452 
2/5/69 
-10-
Moreover, since the number of potential changes in the 
OTC margin list still seemed to be significant, the staff also 
requested the Board's permission to review the list "when 
necessary, every six months, instead of once a year as 
previously recommended," In this connection, the staff requested 
authorization for an additional Grade FR-9 position in the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation, the occupant of which would handle 
analytic problems in connection with the list of margin stocks. 
(Note: The request for permission to review the margin 
list more frequently than originally contemplated was approved 
and the creation of the additional staff position was authorized.) 
Second, as noted in the staff memorandum the Securities 
and Exchange Commission was expected to adopt shortly a 
rule with respect to market makers in OTC margin stocks. The 
staff suggested that the Board's regulatory proposals and the 
SEC rule should be published simultaneously. 
(Note: The Board decided to leave to its staff the 
determination, in light of developments, as to the date on which 
the proposed amendments to the margin regulations should be 
Published for comment.) 
In the January 29 memorandum the staff also pointed out 
that two changes to be made in the margin regulations in connection 
with the proposed amendments had policy implications. 

9 
2/5/69 
-10-
First, under the proposals all brokers and dealers, 
including those selling "equity funding" plans or programs, would 
be subject to Regulation T, and that regulation would continue 
to forbid a "creditor" subject to its provisions from extending 
or arranging for credit on mutual fund shares. In view of the 
nature of the issues involved, the staff recommended that as 
soon as the OTC margin proposals were published for comment the 
Board schedule an oral presentation at which representatives 
of the equity funding industry could appear and present their 
case. 
(Note: The Board decided that the press statement issued 
when the proposed amendments to the margin regulations were 
published for comment should indicate that the Board planned to 
schedule an oral presentation on this aspect of the proposals.) 
Second, whereas credit exempt from margin requirements 
could presently be extended by brokers and dealers through a 
special omnibus account to persons, including foreign firms, 
who certified that they observed Regulation T even though they 
were not subject to it, the proposed broadening of the definition 
of "creditor" in Regulation T to cover all brokers and dealers 
meant that the use of the special omnibus account privilege would 
be limited to institutions that certified that they were actually 
subject to the regulation. It seemed unlikely that responsible 

454 
2/5/69 
-10-
foreign firms would want to state in writing that they were subject 
to a U.S. securities regulation, or that their governments would 
permit them to make such a statement, and as a result the proposed 
amendment might have the effect of terminating use of the special 
omnibus account by foreigners. 
(Note: At today's meeting the staff mentioned that the 
New York Reserve Bank had raised a question about the intended 
effect on existing special omnibus accounts. The Bank pointed 
out that when regulations were extended to new areas existing loans 
normally were allowed to run off as they were paid down. The 
question, then, was whether in this instance the Board intended 
to apply a stricter rule. During a discussion of that point, 
some Board members indicated that they would favor a "no substi-
tution" provision. At the Board meeting on February 6, 1969, 
the staff returned to the Board for clarification. It had been 
the staff's impression that the Board contemplated termination of 
special omnibus accounts for foreigners at the end of one year, 
with no substitutions allowed, but there was some uncertainty, 
Particularly since It was understood that the typical special 
omnibus account had a great deal of turnover and therefore would 
b
e liquidated quite rapidly if no substitutions were permitted. 
After several possible alternatives had been considered, a Board 
member suggested the following formula: in the case of omnibus 

455 
2/5/69 
-10-
account credit extended to firms that did not certify that they 
were subject to Regulation T, no further substitutions of collateral 
would be permitted after 90 days from the date of adoption of the 
amended Regulation T, and credit extended in such accounts would 
in any event have to be brought into conformity with ordinary 
margin requirements no later than one year after such effective 
date. There was agreement with that suggestion, and it was 
understood that the proposed amendments, as published, would so 
specify.) 
Subject to the incorporation of such modifications as 
were necessary to reflect the foregoing understandings, publication 
of the proposed regulatory amendments for comment was authorized, 
along with the issuance of an appropriate press release. 
(Note: The proposals were published for comment under 
date of February 10, 1969. A copy of the press statement issued 
on that date is attached as Item No. 3.) 
Retention of employee beyond age 65, Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
(copy attached as Item No. A) approving the payment of salary 
to Mr. C. Ward Bettes as trust examiner through December 31, 1969, 
a
t the rate of $869.36 per month. Mr. Bettes had effected retire-
ment on December 31, 1968, having reached age 65 during that month. 

4t>4 
? • 
2/5/69 
-li-
lt was understood that the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation had no objection to the proposed arrangement, on 
condition that Mr, Bettes, while commissioned as an examiner, 
would not associate himself with any bank or financial institution 
in view of the possibility of conflict of interest. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

4t>4 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item N o . 1 
• F T H E 
2/5/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
F :B 
5 1969 
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, San Francisco, 
California, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Luxembourg, Luxembourg, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before March 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Luxembourg. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the bal-
ance of payments, the above consent is given with the understanding 
that in the conduct of the branch's operations, maximum reliance will 
be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now 
in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities 
of your bank, and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
ties contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forraslal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

458 
BOARD D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
Item No. 2 
2/5/69 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 5, 1969 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 15, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation M , for Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association ("B of A NT&SA"), San Francisco, California, to 
purchase and hold 100 per cent of the shares of a commercial bank to 
be organized in Lagos, Nigeria ("Nigerian bank"), with a branch in 
Port Harcourt, Nigeria, by the incorporation of the Lagos and Port 
Harcourt, Nigeria branches of B of A NT&SA, with a capitalization 
of approximately $700,000, provided such shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of Nigerian bank by B of A NT&SA is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as prac-
ticable if Nigerian bank shall in any manner engage 
in any activity or take any action whatsoever that would 
not be permissible if Nigerian bank were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, B of A 
NT&SA will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Nigerian bank as it may require from 
time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Nigerian 
bank be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if Nigerian bank were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That B of A NT&SA shall not carry on its books the shares 
of Nigerian bank at a net amount in excess of its propor-
tionate share of the book capital accounts of Nigerian 
bank, after giving effect to the elimination of all known 
losses. 

4t>4 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
2 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) 
of Regulation K. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of Nigerian bank. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your bank, Bamerical International Financial Corporation and Bank 
of America, New York, and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) RcEbrt P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

460 
Item No. 3 
2/5/69 
For release in morning papers 
February 10, 1969. 
Tuesday, February 11, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today proposals to Amend margin Regulations G, T, and U to implement the 
recent amendment to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Signed into law 
on July 29, 1968, the so called "Over-The-Counter Margin Act" (P.L. 90-437) 
broadens the Board's authority over stock market credit to cover certain 
securities that are not registered on a national securities exchange, and 
leaves to the Board the timing and selection of criteria for the application 
of margin requirements to such "over-the-counter" (OTC) stocks. 
Regulation G applies to "Credit By Persons Other Than Banks, Bro-
kers, or Dealers for Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity 
Securities," Regulation T concerns "Credit By Brokers, Dealers, and Members 
of National Securities Exchanges," while Regulation U covers "Credit By 
Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks." 
The proposals, on which the Board has invited comment through 
the Federal Reserve Banks from interested persons by March 17, 1969, are 
Principally designed to include in the regulations the criteria under which 
the Board would select the OTC stocks which would be subject to the margin 
and other requirements cf the regulations. 
Initially, "OTC margin stock" would be stock, not traded on a 
national securities exchange, which the Board determines to have the degree 
°f national investor interest, the depth and breadth of market, the availabil-
ity of information respecting such stocks and their issuers, and the character 

. 2 . 
and permanence of the issuers, to warrant treatment similar to stocks that 
are registered on such exchanges. 
The Board would publish a list of "OTC 
margin stocks" at the time the regulations became effective. 
In a related change, bank loans to broker/dealers against inventory 
positions in OTC margin stocks used to make a bona fide market would be exempt 
from margin regulation in much the same way as are loans to specialists making 
a market in stocks registered on exchanges. 
The criteria used to determine 
which broker/dealers are entitled to the exemption are designed to ensure, 
so far as possible, that an "OTC Market Maker" does in fact make a market in 
the stock, stands ready at all times (within reason) to buy or sell the stock, 
and does not unjustifiably "back away" from the market. Any registered bro-
ker/dealer would be eligible for designation as an "OTC Market Maker" if he 
meets the standards set forth in Regulation U, files with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission a notice of his intent to begin or continue such market-
waking activity and continues to file such other reports as are required pursu-
ant to a rule to be adopted by the Commission respecting market makers in OTC 
margin stocks. 
In another change, the definition of "creditor" in Regulation T 
would be broadened to cover all brokers and dealers. 
This would bring under 
Provisions of the new margin requirements brokers and dealers who now handle 
°TC accounts exclusively. 
In addition, exempt credit through a special omnibus 
account would be available only to brokers and dealers actually subject to the 
regulation. 
At present, Regulation T applies to brokers and dealers who are 
members of an exchange or who transact business through a member firm. 
Credit 
is exempt from margin requirement:*! con be extended by broker-dealers 

. 3 
. 
through a special omnibus account to persons, including foreign firms, who 
certify that they observe the regulation even though they are not subject 
to it. 
The proposed change is not designed to make foreign banks or bro-
ker-dealers subject to U. S. supervision, but only to limit the use of the 
special omnibus account privilege to institutions that certify that they 
are actually subject to Regulation T. The privilege would no longer be 
available to organizations—including foreign financial institutions and 
others—that prefer not to make such a certification. 
A special omnibus account is an account in which a member of an 
exchange may make wholesale transactions for other brokers without regard 
to margin requirements. These transactions involve customers' securities 
on which margin requirements have already been imposed at the retail level. 
The Department of Justice and the SEC recently presented to The House Banking 
and Currency Committee evidence of abuses whereby special omnibus accounts 
have been used by some foreign financial institutions to avoid U. S. margin 
requirements. 
If the proposal is adopted, most firms borrowing in special omnibus 
accounts would not be affected. However, in the case of omnibus account cred-
*t extended to brokers or dealers who did not certify that they were subject 
to Regulation T, no further substitutions of collateral would be permitted 
after ninety days from the adoption of the amended regulation. Credit extended 
such accounts would have to be brought into conformity with ordinary margin 
re
quirement8 within a year. 
At the same time, the Board incorporated into the current proposal 
the broadened coverage of margin Regulations G and U that it originally pro-
Posed last December. This applied to loans on mutual fund shares and would 

- 4 -
463 
bring "equity funding" plans or programs under both regulations. Under the 
current proposal, all brokers or dealers, including those selling equity 
funding plans or programs, would be subject to Regulation T. Regulation T 
prohibits loans on mutual fund shares. The Board, at the request of some 
firms engaged in extending credit on such plans or programs, plans shortly 
to schedule an oral presentation on this aspect of its proposals. 
A number of other conforming changes of a technical nature are 
also made throughout the regulation as necessary or appropriate. 
In a change unrelated to the implementation of P.L. 90-437, the 
provision in Regulation G regarding stock options and employee stock purchase 
plans would be amended to make clear that an increase in the current market 
value of the collateral may be taken into consideration in determining whether 
its maximum loan value U equal to the outstanding credit owing pursuant to 
that provision's withdrawal requirements. In other unrelated changes, the 
time for retaining Federal Reserve Forms G-3 and U-l (the "purpose statements" 
required by Regulations G and U) would be reduced from six to three years to 
ease the burden of record retention, and statements obtained by brokers and 
dealers in connection with "non-purpose" extensions of credit collateralized 
by regulated securities would be obtained on a new Federal Reserve Form T-4. 
Attached are copies of the proposed amended regulations which, with 
the exception of the indications of textual changes, are in the form in which 
they will be submitted for publication to the Federal Register. 
- 0 -
Attachments. 

4 t > 4 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N • R S 
Item No. 4 
2/5/69 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
fw 
February 5, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
In accordance with your request, the Board of 
Governors approves the payment of salary to Mr. C. Ward 
Bettes as trust examiner at your Bank at the rate of 
$869.36 per month through December 31, 1969. We under-
stand that Mr. Bettes reached retirement age of 65 in 
December 1968, and that it is necessary to retain him 
beyond December 31, 1968, to train younger replacements 
as well as conduct trust examinations. 
This approval is granted in accordance with the 
Board's letter S-895 dated February 4, 1946, which states 
that "the Board's advance approval should be obtained for 
the payment of salary for any service rendered after the 
expiration of the 90 day period following attainment of 
age 65." 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
