FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
Marr.h 9. 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

739 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 9, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Byrn and Miss Ormsby of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Other officers and staff of the research divisions 
also attended. 
Staff presented an economic review of the kind offered in advance 
of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, today's presentation 
including also a money market review. It was requested that copies of 
the staff reports be distributed to the members of the Board; copies of 
the statistical charts and tables prepared for today's review have been 
placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion, members of the staff who had attended for the 
purpose of the economic review left the meeting. Mr. Hexter, General 
Counsel, entered along with other staff members interested in one or 

740 
3/9/70 
-2-
more of the following items. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on March 5, 
1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Littleton Co-Operative 
Bank, Littleton, New Hampshire, with The Littleton Savings Bank, Littleton, 
New Hampshire, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of The Littleton Co-Operative 
Bank, a noninsured institution, with The Littleton Savings 
Bank would eliminate no effective competition, and the 
transaction would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Dominion Bankshares. The Board authorized the issuance of a 
proposed order and statement reflecting the Board's action on February 17, 
1970, approving the application of Dominion Bankshares Corporation, 
Roanoke, Virginia, to acquire shares of Cumberland Bank & Trust Company, 
Grundy, Virginia. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached 
under Item No. 1. 
Fund and Bank resources. Unanimous approval was given to the 
sending to the Bureau of the Budget of a letter commenting favorably on 
a Treasury draft bill "To authorize an increase in the resources of 

741 
3/9/70 
-3-
the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development, and for other purposes," the purpose of 
which was to allow the U.S. to participate along with other members of 
the two organizations. 
A copy of the letter sent is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
Foreign travel. The Board authorized travel on an actual expense 
basis by Messrs. Robert Solomon and Axilrod to Paris to attend a meeting 
of the OECD Experts Group on Monetary Policy on March 26, 1970, and by 
Mr. Solomon to attend a Joint Conference of Officials and Academics in 
Torremolinos, Spain, on March 19-22, with an intervening visit to the 
Bank of Spain. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
3/9/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
f 
Roanoke, Virginia, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
Cumberland Bank & Trust Company, 
' 
Grundy, Virginia. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Dominion Bankshares Corporation, 
Roanoke, Virginia, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Cumberland Bank & 
Trust Company, Grundy, Virginia. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Virginia 
Commissioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

6 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 17, 1969 (34 Federal Register 14488), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall be 
extended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 9, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Acting Chairman Mitchell and 
Governors Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

-BbAltEl OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION, ROANOKE, VIRGINIA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
CUMBERLAND BANK & TRUST COMPANY, GRUNDY, VIRGINIA 
STATEMENT 
Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia ("Applicant") 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Cumberland Bank & Trust Company, 
Grundy, Virginia ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to the Virginia Commissioner of Banking and his views and recommendation 
were requested. The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 

/ 
- 2 -
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraiht of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
the fifth largest banking organization in the State of Virginia, con-
trols six banks with aggregate deposits of $463 million, which represents 
6.8 per cent of the total deposits held by all commercial banks in the 
1/ 
State. 
Upon acquisition of Bank ($36 million deposits), Applicant's 
control of deposits in the State would increase to 7.3 per cent, and 
its position relative to other banking organizations in the State 
would remain unchanged. 
Bank's main office is in Grundy, Buchanan County. It has 
a branch in Oakwood, also in Buchanan County, and one branch each in 
Clintwood and Haysi, which are in the adjoining county of Dickenson 
The two counties are situated among the mountains in southwestern 
Virginia and are somewhat isolated from surrounding counties by 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company forma-
tions and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

natural barriers* Because of the topography of the area and established 
customer trade patterns, these two counties, from which Bank derives 
over 96 per cent of its deposits and 94 per cent of its loans, are 
considered to constitute a relevant market. 
Only one other bank, Grundy-National Bank ($9 million deposits), 
is located in the two-county area. That bank,which was established 
in 1964, has exhibited satisfactory growth, and it does not appear 
likely to be adversely affected by Applicant's acquisition of Bank. 
On the contrary, it appears likely that Grundy National Bank will 
realize some benefit from any success which Applicant might have in 
promoting economic development of the area. 
The only one of Applicant's subsidiaries which competes with 
Bank is The First National Exchange Bank of Virginia ("Exchange Bank"), 
Applicant's largest subsidiary. Exchange Bank operates 18 offices in 
southwestern Virginia, five of which are in counties contiguous to 
Buchanan and Dickenson; however, only two of such offices (the 
Richlands office and the St. Paul office) derive more than a minimal 
amount of business from the two-county area. 
The Richlands office of Exchange Bank is 21 miles from Bank's 
Oakwood Branch, and 30 miles from Bank's home office in Grundy. The 
Richlands office derives $2.9 million in deposits from individuals, 
partnerships, and corporations located in Buchanan and Dickenson 
Counties. The St. Paul office of Exchange Bank, which is located 
32 miles from Bank's branch in Clintwood, and 41 miles from its branch 
in Haysi, derives $1.4 million in such deposits from Buchanan and 

-4-
Dickenson counties. The amount of such deposits held by the two offices 
is equal to 15 per cent of the deposits held by Bank, but is insignifi-
cant when compared to the total deposits of Exchange Bank. 
Further, such business appears to be primarily related to 
such incidental factors as personal relationships rather than to com-
petition between the institutions. It does not appear that increased 
competition is likely to develop between present subsidiaries and Bank 
because of the underdeveloped and stable nature of the two-county 
economy, and because Virginia law prohibits Applicant's subsidiaries 
from branching de novo into the two counties. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or 
be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any area. While the acquisition 
would eliminate some present competition, it does not appear that 
such competition is significant. The Board therefore further 
concludes that the proposal would not substantially lessen competi-
tion, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of 
the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 
considered to be satisfactory. Management is competent and the 
prospects of the holding company and its subsidiaries appear 
favorable. 

748 
-6-
Bank also is in satisfactory financial condition. As is 
discussed more fully below, Applicant plans to reorient Bank's Invest-
ment policy to encourage to a greater extent the economic development 
of the two-county area. Applicant has expressed willingness to meet 
the additional capital needs of Bank which this reorientation will 
cause. 
Bank has been run competently, though conservatively; how-
ever, it may soon face a serious management succession problem for 
which affiliation of some type appears to be the only feasible solution. 
Applicant proposes to meet this need as it arises by assignment of 
personnel from its system, and by providing training for personnel 
recruited from Bank's area. Bank's prospects would be generally 
improved by the assistance which Applicant proposes to provide. 
As they relate to Applicant, these considerations are 
consistent with approval of the present application; as they relate 
to Bank, they weigh in support of such action. 
Convenience and needs of the communities concerned. -
Consummation of the proposed transaction would have no effect on 
customers of Applicant's present subsidiary banks. 
Buchanan and Dickenson Counties, with a population of 
56,000 in 1968 (which had declined from 57,000 in 1960, although 
Virginia's population had increased over 20 per cent in that time), 
are a part of Appalachia, the economic condition of which is extremely 

749 
-6-
dcpressed. Improvement in the economy appears to be dependent on 
development of the area's coal, mineral, and timber resources, or 
on the attraction of new industry. Although Bank has been com-
petently run, it has not encouraged this development; loans equal 
only 43 per cent of deposits, and the bank is heavily invested in 
high grade securities. 
Applicant has submitted numerous letters from businesses 
in the area to the effect that local credit demands are not being 
met by the conservatively operated Bank and by the relatively small 
Grundy National Bank. Applicant proposes to direct its efforts 
toward encouraging the economic development of the area. In partic-
ular 
it would increase mortgage and commercial lending, thereby 
encouraging capital investment in the two counties. The availability 
of convenient, full service banking would provide some inducement 
for industrial concerns to locate in the area. In accomplishing 
its purpose of assisting economic development of the area, Applicant 
not only has the necessary financial resources, but, in addition, 
has the advantage of experience developed through operating sub-
sidiary banks with offices in communities which have analogous problems. 
These considerations lend additional weight toward approval 
of the application. 

Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the. Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
-V 
N 
the application should be approved. 
March 9, 1970. 

751 
B D A R D D F G U V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3/9/70 
f*AL 
RE^ 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B D A R D 
March 9, 1970. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
This is in reply to your Legislative Referral Memorandum 
of March 5, 1970, requesting the Board's views on the Treasury 
draft bill "To authorize an increase in the resources of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, and for other purposes." 
The Board of Governors favors enactment of this proposed 
Attention: Mr. J. F. C. Hyde, Jr. 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
legislation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert G. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
