Minutes for February 20, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

5 5 1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 20, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Messrs. Leavitt and Egertson, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Cloth, Forrestal, Shuter, and Via of the 
Legal Division 
Mr. Golden of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Miss McShane and Messrs. Achor, Burton, Lyon, 
and Rumbarger of the Division of Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on February 13 and by the Federal Reserve Banks 

5 5 2 
2/20/67 
-21-
of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on February 16, 1967, of 
the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, 
1 
New York, New York, granting an extension of 
time within which to establish a branch at 
446-48 McDonald Avenue, Borough of Brooklyn. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
2 
approving changes in the basic hospital-surgical 
program at the Helena Branch and payment of two-
thirds of the premium costs for officers and 
employees of the Branch. 
Report on competitive factors. After discussion, a report to 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabili-
ties of Valley National Bank, Littleton, Colorado, by Arapahoe Bank, 
also of Littleton, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Corporation. In the form in which approved, a sentence was added to 
the body of the report indicating that Valley National Bank was the 
only bank in Littleton that was open six days a week. The conclusion 
of the report was revised to read as follows: 

5 5 3 
2/20/67 
-21-
The proposed purchase of assets and assumption of lia-
bilities of Valley National Bank, Littleton, by Arapahoe 
Bank, Littleton, a subsidiary of Denver U.S. Bancorporation, 
Inc., Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, 
would eliminate a considerable amount of competition exist-
ing between the two banks, and thus the competitive effect 
is adverse. 
Application of Marshall & Ilsley (Items 3 and 4). There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on January 16, 1967, of the application of Marshall & Ilsley 
Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire 80 per cent or 
more of the outstanding voting shares of Bank of Greenfield, Greenfield, 
Wisconsin, a newly-organized nonmember insured bank. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached 
as Items 3 and 4. 
Application of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated February 7, 1967, from the Division of 
Examinations, with other papers pertinent to the application of Wachovia 
Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, to merge with 
First National Bank of Morganton, Morganton, North Carolina. The 
recommendations of the Division of Examinations and the Banking Markets 
Section of the Division of Research and Statistics were favorable, as 
was the recommendation of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
In support of its recommendation, the Division of Examinations 
Pointed out that the banks were serving different economic strata in 

5 5 4 
2/20/67 
-4-
the Burke County area and did not compete actively with each other. 
The resulting institution would provide competition at all economic 
levels. This competition would not affect adversely either North-
western Bank, the sole direct competitor in Burke County, or the banks 
with offices in the periphery of the county. The increase in concen-
tration of banking resources in the State, although nominal, would 
further strengthen the position of the bank that presently ranked 
first in this respect. Geographically, however, the merger would 
bring Wachovia to the approximate center of a group of about 20 contig-
uous counties in which it had no offices, and would increase to 2 the 
number of counties in which it had offices in the group of about 30 
counties comprising the western portion of the State. The convenience 
and needs factor lent support for approval, principally through making 
available locally a full range of banking services, including some of 
the more sophisticated ones, and providing a convenient alternative 
source of the various services required by individuals and businesses 
in different economic strata. As to the banking factors, the manage-
ment situation at First National weighed in favor of approval, but 
only slightly. The Division concluded that concentration, the only 
negative aspect, was not sufficiently adverse to outweigh the positive 
aspects. 
After introductory comments by Mr. Egertson, discussion 
centered principally on the question whether Wachovia could establish 

5 5 5 
2/20/67 
-21-
a de novo branch in Morganton. While there was no legal prohibition, 
Wachovia asserted that the administrative climate of the State was such 
as to make it futile to apply for establishment of a de novo branch in 
a community where the bank did not already have an office. Since 1962 
the bank had filed applications for branches in Hickory and Graham, 
both of which had been denied despite evidence of a favorable attitude 
by people in those communities. However, the bank had not applied for 
branches in Morganton or elsewhere in Burke County. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that if the two other 
largest North Carolina banks, which were national banks, had been 
allowed to enter new communities with de novo branches but Wachovia 
had not, that would be substantial evidence that the de novo branch 
route was not available to Wachovia. He indicated that he would have 
the staff analyze the record. 
Secretary's Note: A staff memorandum was 
circulated under date of February 28, 
1967, at Governor Brimmer's request. 
The members of the Board then stated their tentative positions, 
beginning with Governor Shepardson, who said it seemed to him the lack 
of competition between the two banks and the benefit that should 
accrue in terms of the convenience and needs of the community through 
the proposed transaction justified the recommendation of the Division 
of Examinations. 

5 5 6 
2/20/67 
-21-
Governor Mitchell stated that, although he was not too enthu-
siastic about the proposal, it appeared to him that the presence of 
Wachovia would be helpful in meeting the needs of larger borrowers in 
the Morganton area. From the point of view of concentration, aside 
from Winston-Salem, where Wachovia's dominance was overwhelming, there 
were a number of cities in which North Carolina National had a stronger 
position, including Asheville. He believed Burke County would find it 
useful to have a strong bank like Wachovia or North Carolina National 
represented in Morganton. It seemed evident that one or the other would 
enter that county, and there might be some question as between them, 
but he was inclined to approve the Wachovia application. 
Governors Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer and Chairman Martin also 
indicated a favorable position. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would disapprove. He noted 
the extent to which smaller banking institutions were being eliminated 
in North Carolina, with a resulting concentration of power in a few 
large banks that put on the remaining small institutions a pressure 
that was difficult for them to withstand. He saw no need for the 
presence of Wachovia in Morganton; there were offices of one large 
institution to take care of large borrowers, and such borrowers could 
als o be served by banks located elsewhere in the State. First National 
of Morganton, a good and highly profitable bank, was in a position to 
provide facilities to the smaller local businesses. First National was 

5 5 7 
2/20/67 
-21-
viable, had met the needs of its community, and had played a substantial 
part in the development of the area. Although there was no present 
competition between Wachovia and First National, since First National 
was a correspondent of Wachovia, potential competition was being elimi-
nated through the merger. The branching laws of the State permitted 
banks to establish branches in any community if there was need for 
them, and he saw nothing in the record to indicate conclusively that 
Wachovia could not go into Morganton with a de novo branch. In circum-
stances such as he had mentioned, he believed the Board should not 
permit the further concentration of banking power in North Carolina, 
even minimally. 
The application of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company was there-
upon approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. It was understood that 
an order and statement reflecting this decision would be drafted for 
the Board's consideration, and that a statement explaining Governor 
Robertson's dissent also would be prepared. 
Application of Bank of Sussex County. There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated February 9, 1967, from the Division of Examina-
tions and other papers relating to the application of The Bank of 
Sussex County, Franklin, New Jersey, to merge with The Hardyston National 
Bank, Hamburg, New Jersey. The recommendations of the Division of 
Examinations, the Legal Division, the Banking Markets Section of the 
Division of Research and Statistics, and the Federal Reserve Bank of 

5 5 8 
2/20/67 
-21-
New York were all unfavorable due to the substantial adverse competi-
tive effects. 
After summary remarks by Mr. Egertson, Governor Mitchell asked 
whether, in view of certain information regarding competition that had 
been supplied by the applicant in support of its proposal, considera-
tion had been given to having a special survey conducted by the Banking 
Markets Section. Mr. Golden said consideration had been given to that 
possibility. However, even if full credit was given to the applicant's 
contentions, they would not offset the evidence of adverse competitive 
circumstances. In the judgment of the Banking Markets Section the 
evidence that the merger would have adverse competitive effects was so 
strong that a special survey would not be justified. 
After further discussion the application was denied unanimously, 
with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting this action 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Messrs. Cloth and Via then withdrew from the meeting. 
Application of Hawkeye Bancorporation. On February 14, 1967, 
after discussing the application of Hawkeye Bancorporation, Red Oak, 
Iowa, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of a majority 
of the voting shares of Houghton State Bank, also of Red Oak, the Board 
requested that an oral presentation be arranged in an effort to clarify 
certain aspects of the application. It was understood that the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Iowa State Banking Department, and 

5 5 9 
2/20/67 
-21-
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago would be asked to participate. The 
principal area of interest had to do with the banking factors, especially 
management. 
At today's meeting Mr. O'Connell described steps he had taken 
looking toward an oral presentation. A problem had developed in that 
the General Counsel of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was 
averse to the use in the presentation of the most recent report of exam-
ination of Houghton State Bank by the Corporation and to participation 
by the Corporation's examiner. General Counsel had indicated that if 
such a request were received from the Board, he would recommend against 
compliance. 
In the circumstances, Mr. O'Connell had searched for alternative 
procedures. One possibility would be to ask Mr. Dunlap, the President 
°f Houghton State Bank, to appear, and also to hear the views of repre-
sentatives of the Reserve Bank regarding the bank's asset and capital 
condition, loan portfolio, dividend policy, salaries, and lending prac-
tices, and the rating they believed should be given the bank. However, 
it would be necessary to bring out that the Reserve Bank's views were 
based on analysis of the report of examination by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation. 
A second alternative would be to have the Board request the 
Reserve Bank to make a special investigation of Houghton State Bank, 
with emphasis on the banking factors. Testimony of Reserve Bank 

2/20/67 
-10-
representatives at the oral presentation could then be premised on their 
own findings. Mr. O'Connell described particular aspects of the bank's 
operations that he would recommend be included in an investigation by 
the Reserve Bank, if that alternative should be the Board's choice, and 
suggested that consent to such an investigation be obtained not only 
from the Corporation but also from the State Banking Department. Also, 
whereas he had earlier recommended that representatives of the State 
Banking Department participate in any oral presentation, he now withdrew 
that recommendation. The Department had stated its views and conclu-
sions with respect to the application by letter. 
Dis cussion of Mr. O'Connell's report disclosed sentiment in 
favor of the second alternative. However, Governor Robertson suggested 
first making an effort, in connection with a forthcoming meeting of the 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, to persuade the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation to participate and to allow the use of 
its examination report in the oral presentation, along the lines of the 
procedure originally discussed with the Corporation's General Counsel. 
There was unanimous agreement with Governor Robertson's 
suggestion. 
Messrs. Shuter, Golden, Achor, Burton, Lyon, and Rumbarger and 
Miss McShane then withdrew from the meeting. 
Legislative recommendations (Items 5-9). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated February 15, 1967, from the Legal Division 

5 6 1 
2/20/67 
-21-
submitting draft letters and bills for transmittal to the Chairmen of 
the appropriate Congressional Committees with respect to each legisla-
tive recommendation that would be included in the Board's Annual Report 
for 1966, except the one relating to margin requirements for transac-
tions in over-the-counter securities. 
(The sending of the letter and 
bill on that subject was approved by the Board on January 23, 1967.) 
Mr. Hackley commented that the first proposal on the list, the 
so-called "eligible paper bill," was similiar to the bill originally 
submitted to the Congress in 1963, introduced in each Congress since 
then, and passed by the Senate last year. 
Question was raised whether, since such a bill had already been 
introduced in the Senate at the present session of Congress, it would 
be advisable for the Board to submit it again. However, discussion 
indicated a predominant view in favor of resubmitting the bill, with 
comments in the transmittal letters to recognize that the bill was 
identical to bills introduced in this or previous sessions. There was 
also agreement upon certain editorial changes in the letter. 
Mr. Hackley then commented on the proposal that all Federally-
insured banks be required to clear all checks drawn on them at par and 
be prohibited from imposing exchange charges. Although the Board had 
recommended such legislation in its Annual Report for 1965, it had not 
submitted a draft bill to implement the recommendation. There might be 
a question whether the Board would want to submit the draft bill now in 
\ 

5 6 2 
2/20/67 
-21-
light of the introduction in the Minnesota legislature of a bill that 
would require par clearance in that State. 
Governor Brimmer said he had talked recently with President 
Galusha of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, who was optimistic 
about the chances of enactment of a State law. It was Governor Brimmer's 
view that the submission of a bill to Congress by the Board might 
strengthen the Minnesota effort and encourage similar efforts in other 
districts. 
Other members of the Board also expressed such an opinion. How-
ever, it was agreed that before the letter and draft bill were trans-
mitted, the views of President Galusha should be ascertained. 
During further discussion there was agreement upon certain 
changes in the draft letter suggested by Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
Mr. Hackley next described the draft bill on graduated reserve 
requirements. Although the Board had never formally submitted a bill 
on this subject, Chairman Martin had placed a draft bill in the record 
of hearings held by the House Committee on Banking and Currency in 
June 1966. The draft now proposed was similar to that one. In brief, 
it would authorize the Board to fix reserve requirements without the 
present differentiation between banks in reserve cities and elsewhere. 
The bill would provide for a range of reserve requirements from 3 to 
10 per cent on time deposits. For demand deposits, it would specify 
ranges of 7 to 14 per cent on deposits up to $5 million, 8 to 20 per 

5 6 3 
2/20/67 
-21-
cent on deposits from $5 million to $100 million, and 10 to 22 per cent 
on deposits above $100 million. The staff believed such limitations 
desirable to avoid giving small country banks the impression that under 
the new authority the Board might increase their reserve requirements 
substantially above the present level, and also to avoid the contention 
that the Board could favor large banks by reducing their reserve require-
ments below the present minimum. There appeared to be a distinct advan-
tage in having limitations stated in the law, although the bill would 
provide authority for the Board to increase the $5 million cutoff to $10 
million and the $100 million cutoff to $500 million. The bill would 
make reserve requirements applicable to all insured banks and would make 
the Federal Reserve discount windows available to nonmember insured banks 
on the same basis as to member banks. 
Governor Robertson agreed that maximum reserve requirements for 
the different deposit brackets should be stated in the law. However, 
he could not see the need to specify minimums; some years from now the 
Board might find that provision of adequate reserves for an expanding 
economy was hindered thereby. 
Governors Mitchell and Daane expressed agreement with Governor 
Robertson's point. 
During further discussion of Governor Robertson's suggestion, 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the minimum reserve requirements 
should be set by Congress. He regarded a minimum reserve requirement 
as, in effect, a franchise tax. That had been true historically, and 

15 
2/20/67 
-21-
Congress should not be asked to discontinue specifying a minimum 
franchise tax. There were really two requests in the draft bill: that 
the differentiation according to location of bank be removed, and that 
authority be granted for a graduated schedule of reserves. A request 
to remove or change the present statutory minimum was a different matter. 
If such a request was made, it should be the subject of a separate bill. 
Messrs. Cardon and Hackley commented that opposition must be 
expected even if the bill proposed only limited changes in the present 
law. If a provision to reduce or remove the statutory minimum was 
added, the difficulties would be compounded and the prospect of obtain-
ing legislation would be diminished. 
During discussion of further suggestions for revising the mini-
mum percentages downward, Governor Daane expressed the view that, if 
chances of enactment were doubtful anyway, something might be said for 
Requesting the complete restructuring of reserve requirements that 
Would seem to be needed in the long term. He regarded graduated reserve 
requirements as a transitional step toward uniform requirements. 
Governor Brimmer commented, however, that it would seem more 
probable that amendments could be obtained when need arose, if a bill 
were enacted, than that a more drastic bill containing changes believed 
desirable for long-term needs could succeed of enactment now. 
Governor Robertson agreed that that might be so. The present 
draft bill was a long step forward and a concerted effort should be 

5 6 5 
2/20/67 
-21-
made to have it enacted. Nevertheless, he would like to see the Board 
sponsor a bill that would provide adequate flexibility for the years 
ahead. 
Chairman Martin commented that he also believed there would be 
more chance of obtaining enactment of a bill such as the present draft, 
and on the basis of the practicalities of the situation a consensus 
developed along those lines. 
Governor Mitchell then raised a question regarding the dollar 
amount cutoffs for the several demand deposit levels. It was his 
recollection that the $5 million cutoff would include 75 per cent of 
the banks in the country, and the $100 million cutoff would include 
98 per cent. He believed it might be more appropriate to set the lines 
at $2.5 million and $50 million, particularly since the requirements 
Would apply only to a bank's demand deposits. 
Governors Robertson and Daane then suggested that the deposit 
brackets be expressed in terms of a range, with authority given to 
change the cutoff points within that range. After discussion there 
was general agreement that the bill should provide that the $5 million 
figure could be increased by the Board to not more than $10 million or 
decreased to not less than $2.5 million, and that the $100 million 
figure could be increased to not more than $500 million or decreased 
to not less than $50 million. 
There was also agreement with a suggestion by Governor Daane for 
deletion of a sentence in the draft letter that would transmit the bill. 

5 6 6 
2/20/67 
-21-
Further discussion resulted in agreement regarding the remaining 
draft letters and bills that had been submitted, relating to purchase 
of obligations of foreign governments by Federal Reserve Banks, home 
mortgage loans to bank examiners, and loans to bank executive officers. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the sending of letters and 
draft bills to the appropriate Committee Chairmen in a form reflecting 
the changes agreed upon during this meeting, it being understood that 
the letter regarding par clearance would be held pending consultation 
with President Galusha. 
Secretary's Note: Transmittal of the bill 
on par clearance was subsequently deferred 
at the suggestion of President Galusha, 
pending developments with respect to the 
proposed legislation in Minnesota. 
Copies of the letters subsequently transmitted to the Chairmen 
of the appropriate Senate Committees, with the enclosed bills, are 
attached as Items 5-9. Similar letters were sent to the Chairmen of 
the appropriate House Committees. 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, Division of 
International Finance, entered the room at this point. 
Above-maximum salaries at Chicago Reserve Bank. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated February 16, 1967, from the Division of 
Personnel Administration regarding a letter from President Scanlon of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago advising that the Bank's Board of 
Directors had recommended a 5 per cent general increase in the salaries 

18 
2/20/67 
-21-
of all non-officer personnel of the Bank (excluding building trade and 
service employees whose salaries reflected union-negotiated rates) with 
satisfactory work records, effective February 20 if possible. In 
connection therewith, the Bank requested the Board's approval of pay-
ment of above-grade-maximum salaries to 158 employees who otherwise 
could not be granted the general increase. 
The Bank also requested approval of an increase in the minimum 
of salary grade 1 of the employees' salary structure in keeping with 
recent amendments to the Fair Labor Standards Act, requiring a minimum 
hourly wage of $1.40. (The memorandum noted that the Board had already 
authorized approval of such changes to conform to the wage law, when 
requested by a Reserve Bank.) 
President Scanlon's letter set forth reasons cited by the Bank's 
directors in support of the 5 per cent general increase, in essence 
relating to increasing disparity between average salaries paid by the 
Reserve Bank and those paid for comparable work by other institutions 
l n the community, increasing turnover in the Bank's staff, and shortage 
of personnel in the Chicago area. The approval of payment of above-
grade salaries to the 158 employees was requested "until an anticipated 
^crease in the Bank's salary structure which we expect to occur as a 
result of the May 1967 salary survey." 
Governor Mitchell expressed reservations about the practice of 
granting general salary increases. He then indicated that he had a 

5 6 8 
2/20/67 
-21-
question whether the Chicago situation would not allow postponing action 
until after the May salary survey had been made and said he had some 
feeling toward deferring approval of any above-grade salary increases 
pending the results of that survey. It was his impression that the 
labor market in Chicago might be right now at fever pitch and that some 
of the firms included in the survey might even now be in the process 
of making up their minds. 
Governor Brimmer said that when he was in Chicago last week 
First Vice President Helmer had expressed concern about turnover and 
serious deterioration of the work force, especially in the check opera-
tion and some other areas. At the same time he (Governor Brimmer) came 
away feeling that the sense of urgency possibly was overstated and that 
there might not be a sufficient degree of sensitivity to the role of a 
Federal Reserve Bank as opposed to the role of other institutions in 
the community. While he would not want to do anything to hamper the 
Chicago Reserve Bank's operations, he felt that caution should be exer-
cised by a Reserve Bank against setting the pace, for others might then 
Point to the Reserve Bank as a reason for their moving ahead. He was 
inclined to feel that perhaps the Chicago Bank should await the May 
survey. 
In further discussion, Governor Mitchell raised a question 
about the effectiveness of the Federal Reserve System's recruiting and 
training policies in periods of high employment, specifically, whether 

5 6 9 
2/20/67 
-19-
the Reserve Banks were doing enough to train personnel in the lower 
grades and to equip people for promotion. Perhaps there was evidence 
that a good job was being done in that respect. However, in periods 
of relatively full employment the Reserve Banks should be leaders in 
training and upgrading personnel. 
Chairman Martin said he felt President Scanlon was dealing with 
a problem that the Board probably should not complicate for him unless 
it was sure of the outcome. He suggested that Governor Mitchell talk 
with President Sc anion to appraise the validity of the Chicago Reserve 
Bank's request, with the thought that Governor Mitchell would then bring 
the matter back to the Board for further consideration. 
It was understood that the matter would be handled in the manner 
suggested by Chairman Martin. 
Interest equalization tax (Item No. 10). There had been dis-
tributed a draft of reply to a request from the Committee on Ways and 
Means of the House of Representatives for the Board's views on H.R. 3813, 
a bill to continue the interest equalization tax for an additional two 
years, while permitting its application in a more flexible manner. The 
draft would recommend favorable consideration of the bill and then would 
comment on relationships between the interest equalization tax and the 
System's responsibilities for monetary policy. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement upon a 
number of changes in the draft letter suggested by members of the Board, 
the letter was approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 10. 

5 7 0 
2/20/67 
-21-
All members of the staff then withdrew except Mr. Sherman. 
Retirement of Mr. Young. Governor Shepardson reported that 
Ralph A. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board, was applying for retire-
ment effective on or about March 20, 1967, in order to enter another 
field of professional work. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Pursuant to the authori-
zation at the Board meeting on January 31, 
1967, there were sent to the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, and Minneapolis 
on February 17, 1967, letters (copies attached 
as Items 11-13) approving increases in the 
minimums of certain salary grades in view of 
the new minimum hourly wage of $1.40 estab-
lished under the Fair Labor Standards Act. 
There was sent today to the Presidents of all 
Federal Reserve Banks a letter (copy attached 
as Item No. 14) regarding arrangements for a 
study of loopholes in the Bank Holding Company 
Act, being made under the general supervision 
of Governor Maisel. 
On February 17, 1967, Governor Shepardson 
approved on behalf of the Board the follow-
ing items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (copy attached as 
•Item No. 151 approving the reappointment of Charles A. Schlough as 
assistant examiner. 
Memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated February 16, 
1967, requesting authorization to employ Andrew N. Thompson, retired 
Assistant Director of that Division, for a period of a few weeks in 
order to complete a special project, with compensation at the rate of 
$50 per day for each day worked. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 

5 7 1 
2/20/67 
-21-
Appointments 
Dale W. Henderson as Summer Research Assistant, Division of Inter-
national Finance, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,451, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Anniece Laurie as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,413, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Helen Farr Popkin as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $10,166, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
John Fay Rand as Systems Engineer, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $17,550, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
.Salary increase 
Linda Ingram, Stenographer, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from $4,776 to $5,331 per annum, with a change in title to Secretary, 
effective February 26, 1967. 
Transfer 
Judy Ann Shaffer, from the position of Stenographer in the Division 
°f International Finance to the position of Secretary in the Division 
of Research and Statistics, with an increase in basic annual salary from 
$4,936 to $5,331, effective February 26, 1967. 
Governor Shepardson noted on behalf of the 
Board on February 17, 1967, a memorandum 
advising that Mary Louise Roberts, Statis-
tical Assistant, Division of Data Processing, 
had filed application for retirement effec-
tive March 1, 1967. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (copy attached 
a s Item No. 16) approving the appointment of Edward C. Lindstrom and 
Albin C. Netherwood as assistant examiners. 

5 7 2 
2/20/67 
-22-
Memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated February 14, 
1967, recommending the establishment of a new clerk-stenographer 
position in the Bank Holding Company Activities function of that 
Division. 

5 7 3 
IS*. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
• . C. 20SS1 
Item No. 10 
2/20/67 
AOORCB8 OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 20, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust 
Company, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to November 20, 1967, the time within 
which Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York, 
New York, may establish a branch at 446-48 McDonald 
Avenue, Borough of Brooklyn, New York, New York. The 
establishment of this branch was authorized in a letter 
dated August 18, 1965. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

5 7 4 
• • A R D DF GDVERNDRS 
Item No. 10 
2/20/67 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 20, 1967. 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, 
President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
This refers to Mr. Cramer's letter of January 19, 1967, 
advising us of the changes in the basic hospital-surgical program 
for employees at the Helena Branch. We understand that these 
changes will become effective March 1, 1967. 
The Board of Governors approves the proposed program 
and the payment of two-thirds of the premium costs for officers 
and employees of the Branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

5 7 5 
Item No. 10 
2/20/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C, 
the Matter of the Application of 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
f o r approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Bank 
o t Greenfield, Greenfield, Wisconsin, 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3), as amended by Public Law 89-485), and section 222.4(a)(3) 
°f Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)(3)), an application by 
Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for the 
board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
S t a n d i n g voting shares of Bank of Greenfield, Greenfield, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
th 
e Commissioner of Banks for the State of Wisconsin of the application 
a n d requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended 
aPproval. 

-2-
5 7 6 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 21, 1966 (31 Federal Register 13624), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
vi£ws with respect to the proposal. Time for filing comments and 
views has expired and all those received have been considered by the 
B°ard. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day after the date of this Order or 
later than three months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 20th day of February> 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin,and Governors 
Robertson, Shepardson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and 
Brimmer. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

5 7 7 
Item No. 10 
2/20/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION OF 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, 
TO ACQUIRE SHARES OF BANK OF GREENFIELD, GREENFIELD, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
( Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has filed with the Board, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
tended ("the Act"), an application for prior approval of the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the outstanding voting shares of Bank of 
Greenfield, Wisconsin ("Bank"), a new nonmember insured bank. 
A s °f June 30, 1966, Applicant's four subsidiary banks held deposits of 
million. Bank, a newly organized institution, is located in the 
^ty of Greenfield, about eight miles south of Milwaukee, and is expected 
tr» u 
have $3e8 million in deposits after three years of operation. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As required 
b y Section 3(b) of the Act, notice of the application was given to the 
Cocmiggj[onGr 0 f B a nks for the State of Wisconsin, The Commissioner 
rGcotr,meuded approval. 

- 2 -
578 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
^at the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
m°n°poly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
ar® clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consider-
ation the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
atl(* needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction,, - There are eight 
ksnk holding companies operating in the State of Wisconsin, four of which 
among the State's 10 largest banking organizations. Holding companies 
c°ntrol approximately 35 per cent of the deposits and 8 per cent of the 
b 
y 
an*ing offices in the State. 
Although the concentration of offices 
f holding company banks has been increasing steadily between 1962 and 
^65 (f r o m 
p e r cent to 8«3 per cent), the percentage of deposits 
Strolled by such banks during the same period has evidenced almost no 
^ banking data are as of December 31, 1965, unless otherwise noted. 

5 7 9 
-2-
il*crease. Consummation of Applicant's proposal will have no measurable 
effect on the degree of holding company concentration in the State, 
applicant would remain the third largest banking organization and holding 
Cornpeny in the State of Wisconsin, controlling about 7 per cent of the 
dePosits and less than 1 per cent of the banking offices. On a State-
basis, consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in such 
c°ntrol by Applicant, by holding company systems, nor by the 10 largest 
banking organizations as to require disapproval of the application herein. 
Bank's projected primary service area covers 13 square miles 
SDH 
encompasses part of the city of Milwaukee, a major portion of the 
city of Greenfield, and about 70 per cent of the village of Greendale. 
competing with two banking offices located in its primary 
ervice area and seven banking offices that are located elsewhere but 
c°rcpete therein. Even if Bank's deposits reach the estimated $3.8 
^llion after three years' operation, it will be one of the smallest 
these 10 banking offices. Holding company subsidiary banks would 
c°ttttol about 11 per cent of the total deposits held by the 10 offices, 
9s 
compared to 8 per cent at present. The increases in the amount of 
eP°sits held by the Applicant and the number of its banking offices 
result of the proposed acquisition would not tend to create a 
n°poly} o r lessen competition, or restrain trade in any other manner 
the MSMSA, the primary service area of Bank, or elsewhere. 

5 8 0 
-2-
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of 
applicant's proposal on existing and potential competition, the Board 
f J 
n d s t h a t these considerations present no bar to approval of the appli-
'"ton. There are no offices of Applicant's banks that compete signifi-
cantly i n Bank's primary service area. According to the application, only 
° n e of Applicant's six banking offices derives any IPC deposits from the 
a r e a (about .2 per cent of that bank's total deposits). The amount of 
p°tential competition between Bank and Applicant's subsidiary banks which 
be foreclosed by consummation of Applicant's proposal is minimal. 
With 
respect to the competitive force of Applicant's group in 
Nation tc the other banks competing in the service area involved, the 
ecord shows that the banking offices deriving deposits from Bank's 
a r7 service area are engaged in active competition. As Bank's 
Ejected share of such deposits will only amount to about 3 per cent 
after .. 
tnred years of operation, consummation of Applicant's proposal 
not adversely affect existing competition in the area concerned, 
Of Prevent future competition therein. 
In the light of the foregoing considerations and the facts of 
te^or-d 
> the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
n o t result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination 
Conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of 
n8 in any area. The Board further finds that consummation of the 
P°sal would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a 
ittono 
iy> or operate in restraint of trade. 

5 8 1 
-2-
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
applicant has been operating as a bank holding company since 1959. Its 
financial condition and prospects are satisfactory in the light of the 
8atisfactory condition and prospects of its subsidiary banks. Applicant s 
^agement, composed principally of officers and directors of Marshall & 
^sley Bank, is considered experienced and capable. 
Bank has no financial or operating history. However, its 
financial structure and its prospects are satisfactory for a new organi-
2ation. Bank's management is composed of officers and directors of 
applicant and its subsidiaries, as well as responsible and successful 
business and/or professional men residing in Greenfield. It is reasonable 
tr* 
° expect that Bank will be maintained in a sound financial condition 
utuler Applicant's control. 
On the basis of tb.e above considerations, the Board concludes 
tllat the proposed acquisition is consistent with the sound operation of 
banks concerned and that the prospects of Applicant and Bank are 
£ 
av°rable. Accordingly, the banking factors are consistent with approval 
application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved• - Bank is the 
banking facility in Greenfield, a city with a steadily increasing 
E l a t i o n estimated at present to exceed 22,000. Although there is no 
services are now available at Bank which are not also furnished by each 
lence of a lack of banking services in the primary service area, and 
no 

5 8 2 
-2-
o f the other two banking offices presently located in the service area, 
becoming affiliated with Applicant, Bank will be in a better position 
to offer complete, more convenient, and a broader rang*, of alternative 
inking services to the business community and individuals in Greenfield, 
The 
eae circumstances are consistent with approval of Applicant's proposal. 
Summary and conclusion, - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
CQtltained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
ectlon 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
tt 
^action would be in the public interest and that the application should 
b e approved. 
F e bru a r y 20, 1967. 

mm 
5 8 3 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 10 
2/20/67 
V ^ t e n r r r r r \ ® / / « 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E O f T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 1, 1967 
Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
^ommittee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
D e ar Mr. Chairman: 
th 
T h e B o a r d o f Governors again wishes to recommend legislation 
at would permit member banks of the Federal Reserve System to borrow 
With t h e F e d e r a l Reserve Banks on the security 6f any sound assets 
in v U t p a y i n g a "Pfenalty" rate of interest whenever technically 
eligible paper is presented. This legislation would replace present 
^ °visions of the Federal Reserve Act that permit borrowings without 
Penalty interest rate only on the security of Government obligations 
Xh e
P a p e r t h a t m e e t s c e r t a i n outmoded "eligibility" requirements. 
rath6 r e s t r i c t i v e provisions should be amended so as to facilitate 
her than penalize efforts by banks to meet the public's changing 
edit needs. 
g , 
T h e original Federal Reserve Act authorized the Reserve 
- 
t o discount only certain types of paper arising out of "actual" 
^mmercial or agricultural transactions, subject to specified maturity 
the^v t i? n S* 
T h e c o n c e P t underlying this limited authority was that 
mad 
i q u i d i t y o f commercial banks could be assured only if the loans 
lated 
t h e m W 6 r e s h o r t t e r m a n d self-liquidating in character. Re-
<Us 
tC> t h i S c o n c e P t w a s t h e assumption that the pledging of such 
of p ° u n t e d paper by the Reserve Banks as security for the issuance 
cur G d e r a l Reserve notes would serve as the basis for an elastic 
artfrenCy' it: w a s expected that the volume of currency would expand 
ec0
 C O n t r a c t directly in response to the varying credit needs of the 
niej,1101^ a s reflected by the volume of short-term borrowing by corn-
e a l and agricultural enterprises. 
on] 
T h e Principle that Federal Reserve credit should be extended 
fro ° n t h e b a s i s o f short-term, self-liquidating paper was departed. 
a m e
m a s early as 1916, during the First World War, when the law was 
^ m b 
t 0 a u t h o r i- ze the Reserve Banks to make 15-day advances to 
t ^ b a nk s> n o t °nly on the security of "eligible paper" but also 
sip • . S e c u rity of direct obligations of the United States. A more 
Hes 
f i C a n t departure occurred in 1932, when Congress authorized the 
V e Banks to make advances to member banks in exceptional and 

5 8 4 
Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
unusual circumstances on any security satisfactory to the Reserve 
*janks, although at a penalty rate of interest. This authority, at 
first temporary, was made permanent in 1935, and it is no longer 
diluted to exceptional and unusual circumstances, although such 
advances continue to carry a penalty rate of interest. 
The concept that limitation of discounts to short-term, 
elf-liquidating paper would serve automatically to regulate the 
v°lume of Federal Reserve notes in circulation has also been de-
Parted from by amendments to the law and has been refuted by 
experience. In 1932, Congress authorized the issuance of Federal 
eserve notes on the security of Government obligations in addition 
0 eligible paper and gold. This authority was originally of a 
emporary nature, but it was made permanent in 1945. The volume of 
ederal Reserve notes today fluctuates with the changing demands of 
h e economy without regard to the nature of the paper offered as 
^°Hateral for Federal Reserve credit or pledged as security for 
federal Reserve notes. 
Each of these legislative changes took place during a 
of economic stress that served to make clear the inadequacy 
the original framework for Federal Reserve credit extension. The 
^redit needs of American businessmen, farmers, and consumers were 
Jiving in many ways that could not be adequately handled by the 
instrument of short-term, commercial-type paper; and the rapid 
owth of both private and Governmental economic activity.generated 
redit requirements far in excess of those that could be supported 
the relatively small volume of "eligible paper". For example, 
rmers today make much greater use of mechanized equipment; a modern 
mbine represents a big investment, and requires longer-term financing, 
to 
r e x a mP^ e 
t*ie entry of banks into consumer lending in response 
credit needs created by the mass marketing of automobiles and other 
too
a"-[-e consumer goods. Banks are now making term loans to business, 
> in substantial volume, partly in response to economic changes 
Partly in recognition that a two-year loan may be sounder than 
o-day loan made in the expectation of repeated renewals. 
i 
Despite changes in the character of paper held by commercial 
nks and the repeated and necessary departures from the original 
^ncept that discounts should be based only on short-term, self-
te^U:Ldating paper, the law continues to impose unduly restrictive 
/luirements as to the nature and maturity of the paper that may be • 
scounted by the Reserve Banks or offered as security for advances 
the Reserve Banks without payment of a penalty rate of interest. 
For many years, it has been generally recognized that the 
ncept of an elastic currency based on short-term, self-liquidating 

5 8 5 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-3-
P^per is no longer in consonance with banking practice and the needs 
the economy. It has long been apparent that the narrow require-
a m T \ ° f t h e l a W r e § a r d i n S "eligible paper" serve no useful purpose 
na that it would be preferable to place emphasis on the soundness 
of :?8 p a p 6 r o f f e r e d a s security for advances and the appropriateness 
the purposes for which member banks borrow. The one-year paper of 
ny bank customers that is not now eligible for discount may be as 
tisfactory collateral as the 90-day notes of other customers. More-
^ r, the nature of the collateral provides no assurance that the 
^rowing bank will use the proceeds for an appropriate purpose. 
As long as member banks hold a large enough volume of 
^ ernment securities, they need not, of course, be particularly 
ncerned as to the eligibility for discount with the Reserve Banks 
ha s
CK S t 0 m e r s I p a p e r h e l d b y t h e m* 
S i n c e W o r l d W a r 1J-> however, there 
sec • 
a S h a r p n 6 t d e c l i n e i n t h e aggregate holdings of Government 
uriti.es by member banks. Consequently, a number of banks are 
obta? ° b l i g e d t o t e n d e r other kinds of collateral when they seek to 
acCei 
F e d e r a l R e s e r v e credit, and this development will be sharply 
s h o u - M ^ ^ i f 3 f u r t h e r substantial increase in economic activity 
secu 7 ^ U S e b a n k S f u r t h e r t o reduce their holdings of Government 
Cities in order to meet increased credit demands. 
"inel* •ui1!? S U C h a s i t u a t i o n J t h e Reserve Banks can accept technically 
onlv 
, 
p a p e r a s c o l l a teral for advances to their member banks 
inte 
r S e ° t i o n 1 0 ( b ) o f t h e F e d eral Reserve Act at a rate of 
HoveveSt ° n e " h a l f o f o n e P e r cent above the regular discount rate. 
"inel
er? th® necessity for distinguishing between "eligible" and 
that 1 S i b l e " PaPer gives rise to cumbersome administrative procedures 
In 0
 a r e n o t warranted by the exigencies of current banking conditions. 
*eVis
 
t 0 a v o i d these problems, it would clearly be preferable to 
Vit-i,Se a n d uP-date the law so as to eliminate the existing restrictions 
respect to "eligible paper". 
that 
T h e B o a r d o f Governors and the Federal Reserve Banks believe 
Banks
SU<^h a r e v i s i o n o f t h e law would be desirable so that the Reserve 
o f
W i l \ a l w a y s b e in a position to perform promptly and efficiently 
Cred 
t h e* r principal responsibilities - the extension of appropriate 
Wit-- a s s i s t a n c e to member banks to enable the latter to meet the 
eicimate credit needs of the economy. 
kind , 
Accordingly, the Board again urges that legislation of the 
and h 6 r e Proposed be given favorable consideration by your Committee 
the / 
t h e Congress. A draft of the bill in the form as passed by 
enate in the last Congress is enclosed herewith, along with a 

^he Honorable John Sparkman 
-4-
section-by-section explanation and a document showing textual 
changes that would be made in present law. This draft is identical 
U h S. 966, which we note has been introduced this year by 
Senator Proxmire. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Win. McC. Martin, Jr. 
^closures 

DRAFT OF PROPOSED BILL REGARDING 
ADVANCES BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
A 
B I L L 
To amend the Federal Reserve Act in order to enable the Federal Reserve 
Banks to extend credit to member banks and others in accordance 
with current economic conditions, and for other purposes. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in 
Co 
--S&Sess assembled, That the following new section is inserted in the 
pederal Reserve Act immediately preceding section 14: 
'SEC. 13A. (a) Any Federal Reserve Bank may make advances 
to a ny of its member banks on the time or demand notes of such banks 
Secured to the satisfaction of such Federal Reserve Bank, subject to 
S U ch limitations, restrictions, and regulations as the Board of 
Go 
vernors of the Federal Reserve System may prescribe. 
"(b) In making advances pursuant to this section, each Federal 
serve Bank shall give due regard to the maintenance of sound credit 
cions and the accommodation of commerce, industry, and agriculture. 
E a C h F e d eral Reserve Bank shall keep itself informed of the general 
cha 
racter and amount of the loans and investments of its member banks 
a view to ascertaining whether undue or inappropriate use is being 
made of u 
bank credit for the speculative carrying of or trading in 
Curities, real estate, or commodities, or for any other purpose in-
sistent with the maintenance of sound credit conditions; and, in 
te*n)ining whether to grant or refuse advances, the Federal Reserve 

5 8 8 
- 2 -
Bank shall give consideration to such information, Whenever the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in the light of any 
reports made to it by a Federal Reserve Bank, determines that any 
member bank is making such undue or inappropriate use of bank credit, 
the Board may, in its discretion, after reasonable notice and an 
opportunity for a hearing, suspend such bank from the use of the credit 
facilities of the Federal Reserve System and may terminate such suspen-
sion or may renew it from time to tine0 
"(c) Any Federal Reserve Bank may make advances to any 
individual, partnership, or corporation, on its promissory notes, 
secured by direct obligations of the United States, subject to such 
limitations, restrictions, and regulations as the Board of Governors 
°f the Federal Reserve System may prescribe*" 
SEC. 2. The following provisions of the Federal Reserve Act 
are hereby repealed: 
section 10(a) (12 U„ScCc 347a); section 10(b) 
(12 U.S0C„ 347b); section 11(b) (12 U.SrC. 248(b)); the second, third, 
fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth, tenth, and thirteenth paragraphs of 
section 13 (12 U.S.C, 343, 344, 345, 346, 347, 361, 347c); section 13a 
(12 U,S.C, 348-352); and the last sentence of the third paragraph of 
section 24 (12 U eS 0C, 371). 
SEC, 3. The eighth paragraph of section 4 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C, 301) is amended to read as follows: 
"Said board of directors shall administer the affairs of said 
bank fairly and impartially and without discrimination in favor of or 
a8ainst any member bank or banks," 

-3- 
589 
SEC. 4. The thirteenth paragraph of section 9 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S#Ct 330) is amended by changing the colon after the 
ttords "member banks" in the second sentence to a period and by striking 
°ut> commencing with the words "Provided, however,", the remainder of 
the paragraph. 
SEC. 5. In the last sentence of section 11(c) of the Federal 
^serve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(c)) the words "and discount fixed by the 
B°ard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System" are changed to read 
barged by the Reserve Bank on advances under section 13A(a) of this 
Act". 
SEC. 6. In the last sentence of section ll(m) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U#S.C. 248(m)) the words "of all rediscount privileges 
a t Federal reserve banks" are changed to read "from the use of the 
c*edit facilities of the Federal Reserve Banks." 
SEC. 7. In the second paragraph of section 12 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U*S.C, 262) the words "discount rates, rediscount 
business" are changed to read "advances under section 13A of this Act, 
a t es of interest charged by the Federal Reserve Banks on such advances"* 
SEC. 8. The first paragraph of section 14 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 353) is amended to read as follows: 
"Any Federal Reserve Bank may, subject to the regulations of 
e Federal Open Market Committee, purchase and sell in the open market, 
home or abroad, either from or to domestic or foreign banks, firms, 
^ o r a t i o n s , 
or individuals, cable transfers, bankers 
acceptances, 
ancI b i n s of exchange, with or without the indorsement of a member bank." 

-4-
590 
SEC. 94 Section 14(c) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U«S*C. 356) 
ls amended by striking out the words "arising out of commercial transac-
t s , as hereinbefore defined". 
SEC, 10. Section 14(d) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U,S.C. 357) 
is tended to read as follows: 
"(d) To establish from time to time, subject to review and 
;e*minat 
(i) 
semination of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
rates of interest to be charged by the Federal Reserve Bank on ad-
V a n C e s u n d e r section 13A(a) of this Act, which shall be fixed with a 
of accommodating commerce, business, and agriculture, and of 
"Staining sound credit conditions; and different rates may be fixed 
° r different classes of paper or according to such other basis or 
bases no 
', , 
as may be deemed necessary in order to accomplish such purposes; 
each such bank shall establish such rates every fourteen days, or 
°f te 
n er if deemed necessary by the Board; and (2) rates of interest to 
charged by the Federal Reserve Bank on advances under section 13A(c) 
°f this Act;" 
SEC. 11, The second paragraph of section 16 of the Federal 
A 
Act (12 U.S,C. 412) is amended by striking out the third sentence 
substituting therefor the following: "The collateral security thus 
shatll be notes of member banks or others acquired under the pro-
Vist 
n s of section 13A of this Act, or bills of exchange or bankers' 
CePtances purchased under section 14 of this Act, or gold certificates, 
0 t div. 
Arect obligations of the United States." 

5 9 1 
-2-
SEC. 12. The second sentence of section 19Ce) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 374) is amended by changing the word "discounts" 
in such sentence to read "advances". 
SEC. 13. The second paragraph of section 23A of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c) is amended by striking out the words 
drafts," and "for rediscount or" from the clause beginning with the 
V o r d "Provided.". 
SEC. 14. Section 201(e) of the Act of July 21, 1932, as 
tended (12 U.S.C. 1148) is amended by striking out the words '.'various 
Federal reserve banks and" from that section. 

5 9 2 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R 5 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 6 
2/20/67 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 1, 1967 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors wishes to recommend legislation 
establishing a graduated system of reserve requirements against 
the demand deposits of all federally insured commercial banks 
ar*d, in conjunction therewith, authorizing the Federal Reserve 
Banks to extend credit to nonmember insured commercial banks to 
the same extent such credit is made available to member banks. 
Under the provisions of section 19 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, the Board could establish a graduated system of 
reserve requirements for member banks. However, the Board's 
ability to establish the most appropriate graduated system is 
•limited by the outmoded statutory differentiation, for re'serve 
Purposes, between reserve city and "country" banks. 
The Board believes that the classification of member 
anks into reserve city and country banks has become increasingly 
arbitrary and inequitable, as differences in both size and 
Action between country and city banks have lessened. With 
graduated reserve requirements along the line of the enclosed 
£aft bill, the required reserves of each bank would depend on 
"e size of its demand deposits rather than its location. More-
over, this proposed system would probably lessen changes in total 
required reserves resulting from shifts in deposits among banks 
0 ± different size. 
The Board also considers that, rationally and equitably, 
^°nmember insured banks should be required to maintain reserves 
n the same amount and form that are applicable to member banks, 
eposits in nonmember banks are part of the country's money supply 
jut>c a s 
are those in member banks, and accordingly their exemption 
rom federally imposed reserve requirements cannot be justified. 
, n making Federal Reserve requirements applicable to nonmember 
anks - one of the major "burdens" of Federal Reserve membership -

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
the law should grant such banks access to Federal Reserve discount 
facilities - one of the major benefits of such membership. 
The enclosed draft bill is based upon the foregoing 
considerations. The Board urges the introduction and enactment 
o f such proposed legislation. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 

591 
A 
B I L L 
To establish a graduated system of reserve requirements for all insured 
k 
bank 
banks, to authorize Federal Reserve Banks to extend credit to all insured 
s> and for other purposes. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in 
C a r e s s assembledT That section 19(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
U.S.C, 461), as amended by the Act of September 21, 1966 (80 Stat. 823), 
is amended by adding at the end therof the following sentence: "For 
PurPoses of this section, the terms 'insured bank1 and 'noninsured bank* 
Shall have the meanings given those terms by section 3(h) of the Federal 
DePosit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h))," 
SEC. 2. Section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S,C, 462) 
I 
s tended to read as follows: 
"(b) Every insured bank engaged in the business of receiving 
eP°sits subject to check shall maintain reserves against its deposits 
iti Such ratio or ratios and according to such reasonable basis or bases 
sball be determined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Syst 
tem within the following limitations: 
(1) The required reserve ratio for deposits other than demand 
p°sits shall be not less than 3 per cent nor more than 10 per cent. 
(2) The required reserve ratio for demand deposits not exceeding 
^ H i o n shall be not less than 7 per cent nor more than 14 per cent. 

5 9 5 
-2-
(3) The required reserve ratio for demand deposits exceeding 
$5 million and not exceeding $100 million shall be not less than 8 per 
cent nor more than 20 per cent. 
(4) The required reserve ratio for demand deposits exceeding 
$100 million shall be not less than 10 per cent nor more than 22 per cent. 
(5) The $5 million figure may be increased by the Board to 
not more than $10 million or decreased to not less than $2-1/2 million, 
the $100 million figure may be increased to not more than $500 million 
°r decreased to not less than $50 million. 
"Every insured bank shall make reports concerning its required 
^serves to the Board of Governors at such time and in such form as the 
B°ard may require. 
"For every violation of this section by an insured bank, in 
Edition 
to the penalties that may be authorized by other provisions of 
such bank shall be subject to a penalty not exceeding $1,000 per 
day 
each day during which such violation continues. Such penalty 
m ay be assessed by the Board of Governors, in its discretion, and, 
vben so assessed, may be collected by the Federal Reserve Bank by suit 
° r otherwise." 
Whenever it shall appear to the Board of Governors that an 
^sured bank has willfully violated or has continued to violate the 
Provisions 
of this section regarding required reserves or reports with 
tespect thereto, the Board, after having warned the bank to discontinue 
Svich violations, may report such facts to the Federal Deposit Insurance 

5 9 6 
-2-
CorPoration which shall immediately commence proceedings to terminate 
the status of the bank as an insured bank in accordance with the provisions 
of 
section 8(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C« 1818(a)). 
SEC. 3. Section 19(c) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C, 462) 
ls amended by changing the words "member bank" to "insured bank". 
SEC. 4. The second sentence of section 19(e) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C, 374) is amended by changing the words "member bank" 
to insured bank" and the words "nonmember bank" to "noninsured bank". 
SEC. 5. Sections 19(f) and (g) of the Federal Reserve Act 
U.S«C. 464, 465) are amended by changing the words "member bank" and 
»» ember banks" wherever they occur therein to "insured bank" and "insured 
bariW 
JKS , respectively. 
SEC. 6. Section 11(e) of the Federal Reserve Act 
(l? u
*s.c. 248(e)) is repealed. 
SEC. 7. Section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act is amended by 
B at the end thereof the following new paragraph: 
"Every Federal Reserve Bank is authorized to discount paper for, 
^ advances to, any insured bank in its district to the same extent 
Subject to the same limitations as said Federal Reserve Bank is 
°*ized to discount paper for, and make advances to, member banks 
the provisions of this Act." 
SEC. 8. Section 7 of the Act of September 21, 1966 
(80 s. 
823), is repealed. 

5 9 7 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 7 
2/20/67 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 1, 1967 
^he Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Since February 1962, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
has engaged in foreign currency operations on behalf of the System 
°Pen Market Account and under directions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. These operations have been encouragingly successful in 
accomplishing their basic purposes, and have thus helped to safeguard 
the value of the dollar in international exchange markets. 
These operations have been implemented in part by the 
establishment of reciprocal credit balances or "swap" arrangements 
between the New York Reserve Bank and foreign central banks. The 
authorization for System foreign currency operations adopted by the 
Federal Open Market Committee requires that foreign currency holdings 
excess of minimum working balances be invested insofar as practicable, 
a n d that such investments be in accordance with the provisions of 
section 14(e) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Under section 14(e), idle amounts held by the Reserve Bank 
an account with a foreign bank may be invested in bills of exchange 
and acceptances that arise out of actual commercial transactions and 
have maturities of not more than 90 days, or they may be placed in an 
interest-bearing time account with the same or some other foreign bank. 
However, in certain instances there has been a scarcity of such paper 
investment., time deposit facilities have not always been conveni-
ently available, and, under present law, such idle funds could not be 
invested in obligations of foreign governments, such as foreign 
treasury bills. On the other hand, a foreign central bank having a 
balance or reciprocal credit or "swap" arrangement with the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York may invest idle funds in its account with the 
Reserve Bank in interest-bearing United States securities. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
- 2 -
5 9 8 
The disadvantage in this respect under which the Reserve 
Bank must operate would be remedied by an amendment to section 14(e) 
of the Federal Reserve Act that would specifically authorize Federal 
Reserve Banks to buy and sell securities with maturities not exceeding 
12 months that are issued or guaranteed by foreign governments. 
The Board recommends the enactment of such an amendment to 
the law. A suggested draft of a bill for this purpose is enclosed. 
This draft is identical with S.1557, which passed the Senate in the 
last Congress, and S.965, introduced this year by Senator Proxmire. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 

D R A F T 
5 9 9 
A 
B I L L 
Th 
0 amend the Federal Reserve Act to enable Federal Reserve banks to 
invest in certain obligations of foreign governments. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
^ Q n i t e d States of America in Congress assembled. That the first 
sentence of subsection (e) of section 14 of the Federal Reserve Act 
( l 2 U.S.C. 358) is amended to read as follows: 
"(e) To establish accounts with other Federal reserve banks for 
exchange purposes and, with the consent or upon the order and direction 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and under 
re8ulations to be prescribed by said board, to open and maintain accounts 
in foreign countries, appoint correspondents, and establish agencies in 
Such countries wheresoever it may be deemed best for the purpose of 
Purchasing, selling, and collecting bills of exchange, and to buy and 
8 eU> with or without its endorsement, through such correspondents or 
a8encies, bills of exchange (or acceptances) arising out of actual 
mercial transactions which have not more than ninety days to run, 
lusive of days of grace, and which bear the signature of two or more 
Sponsible parties, and to buy and sell any securities which are direct 
ligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any 
f°teign government or monetary authority, and which have maturities from 
e °f purchase not exceeding twelve months and are denominated payable 
in any convertible currency; and, with the consent of the Board of 
°v^rnors of the Federal Reserve System, to open and maintain banking 
°unts for such foreign correspondents or agencies, or for foreign banks 
0 t bankers, or for foreign states as defined in section 25(b) of this Act." 

6 0 0 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Jtem No 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/20/67 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 1, 1967 
The Honorable James 0. Eastland, 
Chairman, 
Committee on the Judiciary, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Section 212 of the United States Criminal Code 
(18 U.S.C. 212) prohibits a federally insured bank from making any 
loan to any person who examines or has authority to examine such 
bank. Conversely, section 213 of the Code (18 U.S.C. 213) prohibits 
any examiner from obtaining any loan from any federally insured bank 
examined by him. 
While these provisions of law, designed to prevent conflicts 
of interest, are based upon sound principles, the Board believes that 
they unduly and unfairly place bank examiners at a serious disadvan-
tage in the obtaining of financing for the purchase or construction 
of homes. Modification of the law to permit insured banks to make 
home mortgage loans to examiners up to some maximum amount prescribed 
by statute would not, in the Board's opinion, defeat or impair the 
accomplishment of the purposes of these provisions, particularly if 
the examiner is precluded from examining the lending bank during the 
life of the loan. 
Accordingly, the Board recommends the introduction and 
enactment of appropriate amendments to the Criminal Code that would 
authorize an insured bank to make a home mortgage loan to an examiner 
up to an amount not exceeding $30,000. A draft of a bill for this 
purpose is enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
qpcov*, 
Enclosure 

6 0 1 
D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
To amend sections 212 and 213 of title 18, United States Code. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That sec-
tion 212 of the United States Criminal Code (18 U.S.C. 212) is amended 
by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph: 
"Nothing contained herein or in section 213 of this title 
shall prohibit any such officer, director, or employee from making, 
or an examiner or assistant examiner from accepting, from any such 
bank, corporation, member,institution, association, or organization, 
a loan in an amount not exceeding $30,000 that is secured by a first 
lien on a home owned and occupied or to be owned and occupied by such 
examiner or assistant examiner, but no examiner or assistant examiner 
to whom such a loan is made shall, as long as the loan remains out-
standing, participate in any examination of the institution by which 
the loan was made." 

6 0 2 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
Item No. 9 
2/20/67 
•f^URE^t-
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 1, 1967 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors wishes to recommend certain 
amendments to the provisions of section 22(g) of the federal 
Reserve Act regarding loans by member banks of the Federal Reserve 
System to their executive officers. 
These provisions presently prohibit a member bank from 
making loans to any of its executive officers, except in an amount 
not exceeding $2,500 and then only with the prior approval of a 
majority of the bank's board of directors. 
In addition 
an executive 
officer is required to make a written report to his bank with respect 
to any loan obtained by him from any other bank. 
The Board believes that these restrictions, first enacted 
in 1933, are unrealistically severe in the light of changed economic 
conditions and that they should be liberalized. 
In 1956, in connection with the then proposed "Financial 
Institutions Act", the Board reconunended that the $2,500 exemption be 
increased to $5,000. 
This change was included in that bill as it 
passed the Senate in 1957; and the bill would have also relieved 
executive officers from the burden of reporting borrowings from 
other banks where they would not exceed $15,000 in the caseof home 
mortgage loans or $5,000 in the case of other loans 
The Report of 
the President's Conunittee on Financial Ins-titutions in April 1963 
recognized the desirability of increasing the $2 500 ceiling on the 
amount an executive officer may borrow from his bank. 
The underlying purpose of restrictions on loans by member 
banks to their executive officers is unquestionably sound 
However, 
the Board believes that aome liberalization of these restrictions 

6 0 3 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
would not be contrary to the public interest. In addition to an increase 
in the basic ceiling on exempted loans, the law should provide a special 
exemption with respect to mortgage loans covering the purchase of an 
executive officer's home. 
Accordingly, the Board recommends (1) that an executive officer 
of a member bank be permitted to borrow from his own bank up to $5,000, or, 
in the case of home mortgage loans, up to $30,000; (2) that, in lieu of the 
present requirement for prior approval by the bank's board of directors with 
respect to exempted borrowings by an executive officer from his own bank, 
the officer be required to report any such borrowing to the board of 
directors; and (3) that reports as to borrowings from other banks be required 
only where they would exceed in the aggregate the amount an executive officer 
could borrow from his own bank. In connection with these changes, certain 
obsolete provisions of the law should be repealed. 
To preclude favoritism, these changes should be accompanied by 
a requirement that any loan to a bank's executive officer shall be made on 
terms not more favorable than those extended to other borrowers. 
There is enclosed a draft of a bill that would amend 
section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act along the lines above described. 
The Board urges favorable consideration of such a bill by your Committee 
and by the Congress. This is identical with S. 1558, which passed the 
Senate in the last Congress. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 

6 0 4 
D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
TA 
10 amend section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act relating to loans to 
executive officers by member banks of the Federal Reserve System, and 
t0r other purposes. 
Be It enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
•^LiLnited States of America in Congress assembled, That subsection (g) 
of section 22 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 375a) is amended by 
atrlking out the first two sentences thereof and inserting in lieu thereof 
« 
the following: 
"(g) No executive officer of any member bank shall borrow from 
°r otherwise become indebted to any member bank of which he is an executive 
officer, and no member bank shall make any loan or extend credit in any 
0ther manner to any of its own executive officers: Provided, That any 
^mber bank may extend credit, on terms not more favorable than those 
ended to other borrowers, to any executive officer thereof, and such 
of£icer may become indebted thereto, in an amount not exceeding $5,000, or, 
the case of a first mortgage loan on a home owned and occupied or to 
be n owned and occupied by such officer, in an amount not exceeding $30,000, 
but any such indebtedness shall be promptly reported by such officer to 
th 
e board of directors of the bank of which he is an officer. If any 
*ecutive officer of any member bank borrows from or if he be or become 
^ebted to any other bank or banks in an aggregate amount exceeding that 
he could lawfully borrow from the member bank of which he is an 
Cutive officer under this section, he shall make a written report to 
e board of directors of such member bank, stating the date and amount 
^ such loan or loans or indebtedness, the security therefor, and the 
PU t 
P°se for which the proceeds have 
or are to be used." 

6 0 5 
'.ML RE**'. 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O f 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 S 5 I 
Item No. 10 
2/20/67 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 20, 1967 
The Honorable Wilbur D. Mills, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Ways and Means, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request for the views of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on the bill, H.R. 
3813, to continue the interest equalization tax for an additional 
two years, while permitting its application in a more f o i b l e 
manner. The Board recommends favorable consideration of the bill. 
As you know, the Federal Reserve System is responsible for 
establishing and implementing.a monetary policy that will ensure the 
maximum utilization of our productive resources of .Uta an capital 
consistent with reasonable stability in the general price level. 
Another objective with which the System is concerned is of coure 
an appropriate balance in our international payments, without which 
it would be difficult for the United States to carry out ^ s inter 
national responsibilities or, indeed, to achieve its domestic economic 
objectives. 
As you will recall, when the Interest Equalization Tax was 
adopted as a balance-of-payments measure, the immediate domestic 
objective was to encourage faster expansion of the economy, which in 
turn called for a monetary policy of relative ease. 
During most of the year 1966, on the other hand, a 
restrictive monetary policy was followed. While this - s designed 
primarily to combat inflationary pressures at home it "suited in 
credit conditions which not only inhibited the outflow of 
capital but also attracted foreign capital to the United States. 
At present we are again witnessing a change in the domestic 
economic scene. Pressures on domestic resourcesarenot nearly so 
great nor pervasive as they were a few months ago. As a result, 

6 0 6 
The Honorable Wilbur D. Mills 
-2-
Federal Reserve System has eased domestic monetary conditions, and this 
has been reflected in significant increases in reserve availabilities 
and declines in interest rates. 
By providing some insulation between interest rates in the 
United States and those abroad, the Interest Equalization Tax permits 
monetary policy here to act with greater flexibility in meeting the 
needs of the domestic economy. For this reason we see particular 
merit in putting the tax on a more flexible basis, with a range of 
Possible variation between zero and 2 percent. 
This protection is especially important at the present time, 
when U.S. monetary policy has moved toward ease, and interest rates 
here have fallen more rapidly than in most foreign countries. We are 
hopeful that interest rates in developed countries abroad, which have 
started to come down from last year's peaks, will decline significantly 
further, and that the differential between our rates and foreign rates 
not continue to move adversely. But we cannot count on this, and 
therefore we welcome the extra measure of protection from the possibility 
°f raising the tax to 2 percent. At other times, when U.S. interest 
rates are high relative to those abroad, the tax could be put on a 
standby basis. 
Thus we attach equal importance to the proposed increase in 
the maximum rate of the tax--to 2 percent--and to the authority for the 
President to vary the tax flexibly in accordance with changing interest 
rate differentials between the United States and other developed countries. 
I might also note that although a sharp increase in the outflow 
o f capital from both bank and nonbank sources would be inhibited by the 
voluntary foreign credit restraint program, the continued existence and 
strengthening of the Interest Equalization Tax would supplement the 
effort of banks and other financial institutions to control the outflow 
o f dollars. Furthermore, it would tend to focus their foreign lending 
credits to finance U.S. exports and to satisfy the needs of less 
developed countries—both of which uses are exempt from the Interest 
Equalization Tax. 
In sum, enactment of H.R. 3813 would help to reduce any 
^consistency that might otherwise develop between the domestic and 
international objectives of monetary policy. 
Sincerely yours, 

6 0 7 
. • V o i c o v j ' ' ' . 
s p ? 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. II 
2/20/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 17, 1967 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. George H. Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 
Dear Mr. Ellis: 
As requested in your letter of February 13, 1967, 
the Board of Governors has approved, retroactive to February 1, 
1967, a revised minimum salary of $2,950 per annum for Grades 
1 and 2 of the salary structure, applicable to employees of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

6 0 8 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
2/20/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 17, 1967 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Walter H. MacDonald, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. MacDonald: 
As requested in your letter of February 14, 1967, 
the Board of Governors has approved, retroactive to February 1, 
1967, a revised minimum salary of $2,938 per annum for Grade 1 
of the salary structure, applicable to employees of the 
Cincinnati Branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

6 0 9 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
Item No. 10 
2/20/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
February 17, 1967 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolist Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
As requested in your letter of February 13, 1967, 
the.Board of Governors has approved, retroactive to February 1, 
1967, a revised minimum salary of $2,950 per annum for Grade 2 
of the Minneapolis-Helena salary structure. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 

6 1 0 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
2/20/67 
A O O R C S B O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R O 
February 20, 1967, 
D*ar Sir: 
The Board has directed that a study be made of loopholes 
J1* the Bank Holding Company Act and has requested Governor Maisel 
0 give general supervision to the study. Three Federal Reserve 
anks have made available individuals to work on the study, and 
£ is hoped at least tentative conclusions can be reached within 
^oout six months. The individuals so made available and their 
Reserve Banks ar6 as follows: 
Herbert C. Morse 
William F. Upshaw 
Joseph R. Vogel 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis 
p 
Mr. Upshaw has been asked to act as chairman of the group, 
time to time the group will need to obtain information from the 
B 
-
eserve Banks, including information contained in examination reports. 
u 
be appreciated if each Federal Reserve Bank that may be called 
Pon for such assistance will cooperate in every way practicable. 
n this connection, it will be considered appropriate to utilize 
lamination reports in whatever manner may seem advisable, always 
aking suitable precautions to protect the confidentiality of the 
^formation in the reports. 
Very truly your. 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

G i l 
o^MlliP:'-
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No. 15 
2/20/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
February 17, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Quackenbush1s letter of February 15, 1967, the Board 
approves the reappointment of Charles A. Schlough as 
an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, effective today. Please advise the salary 
rate. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

6 1 2 
^OfGOv'. % 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 
2/20/67 
16 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 20, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of February 14, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointments of Edward C. Lindstrom and Albin C. Netherwood 
as assistant examiners for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York. Please advise the effective dates of the appoint-
ments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
