Minutes for May 11, 1967 
To: 
Membe rs of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1.863 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 11, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 1/ 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Forrestal, Senior Attorney, and Cloth 
and Porter, Attorneys, Legal Division 
Mr. Lyon, Supervisory Review Examiner, Division 
of Examinations 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made 
i/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

1864. 
5/11/67 
-2-
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to The Peoples Bank of Montross, 
1 
Virginia, Incorporated, Montross, Virginia, 
approving an investment in bank premises. 
Letter to First National City Bank, New 
2 
York, New York, consenting to the acquisi-
tion of all or substantially all of the 
capital stock of Banco Riachuelo, S.A., 
Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
Letter to Citizens State Bank, Cadott, 
3 
Wisconsin, approving an investment in 
bank premises. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
4 
Kansas City relating to the question 
whether loans by a State member bank to 
an affiliate, collateraled by warehoused 
real estate loans covered by "take out" 
commitments, would be secured by collat-
eral meeting the requirement of section 23A 
°f the Federal Reserve Act. 
Letter to the Charles Stewart Mott Founda- 
5 
tion, Flint, Michigan, granting its request 
for an extension of time until May 31, 1967, 
within which to register as a bank holding 
company, but indicating that no further 
extension of time would be considered. 
In connection with Item No. 4, Governor Sherrill observed that 
a s he read the proposed letter it was not intended to be a statement 
°f general applicability and instead represented an approach in which 
the answer to the question raised was contingent upon the circumstances 
o f a particular case. Mr. Hooff commented that the effect of the letter 

1 8 o 
5/11/67 
-3-
was to modify a 1933 Board interpretation that took a negative approach, 
and for that reason perhaps a new interpretation based on the letter 
should be published. Governor Maisel expressed the view that, although 
the letter seemed satisfactory as a reply to the Kansas City Reserve 
Bank, further thought should be given to the exact wording of any pub-
lished statement, particularly so far as the adaptation of the final 
paragraph of the letter was concerned. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
Posed merger of The First National Bank of York, York, Pennsylvania, 
into The York Bank and Trust Company, also of York, was approved unani-
mously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The First 
National Bank of York and The York Bank and Trust Com-
pany would eliminate significant existing and potential 
competition and increase the already high level of bank-
ing concentration in the York area. The overall effect 
of the proposal on competition would be substantially 
adverse. 
Application of Dominion Bankshares Corporation (Items 6-7). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on April 26, 1967, of the application of Dominion 
Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, to become a bank holding 
company by acquiring shares of The First National Exchange Bank of 
Virginia, Roanoke, and Metropolitan National Bank, Richmond, Virginia. 

1866 
5/11/67 
-4-
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 6 and 7. 
Messrs. Hooff, Sammons, Dahl, Egertson, Cloth, Forrestal, Lyon, 
and Porter withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Director appointment. To succeed Donald B. Campbell, who had 
resigned, it was agreed to ascertain through the Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas whether R. M. Buckley, President, EasTex, Incor-
porated, Evadale (Beaumont), Texas, would accept appointment if tendered 
as a director of the Houston Branch for the unexpired portion of the 
three-year term ending December 31, 1968, with the understanding that 
if it were found he would accept, the appointment would be made. 
Secretary's Note: It having been ascer-
tained that Mr. Buckley would accept the 
appointment if tendered, an appointment 
wire was sent to him on May 15, 1967. 
Ceiling rates. Governor Robertson read the following letter 
addressed to him under date of May 9, 1967, by Chairman H o m e of the 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board: 
Our Board at this time is considering what changes, 
if any, should be made effective July 1, 1967, in the 
ceiling rates which have been prescribed by regulation 
for the savings and loan industry. There are certain 
economic considerations which suggest the desirability 
of some downturn in the present ceiling rates. The 
problem is perhaps more focal as to savings and loan 
associations than it may be as to banks in that such 
associations are approaching a principal quarterly div-
idend period beginning July 1, 1967. We believe that 
it would be salutary for the savings and loan industry 
to know of any changes in the present rate structure by 
June 1, 1967. 

1867 
5/11/67 
-5-
As a basis for preliminary discussion of this matter 
at the meeting of the Coordinating Committee scheduled for 
this week or at a meeting to be held soon thereafter to 
discuss rate controls, it is the purpose of this letter 
to raise some questions as to ceiling rates on banks and 
mutual savings banks which could affect any action we may 
take in regulating rates in the savings and loan industry. 
When the Rate Control Bill became effective last year, 
our Board was faced with a decision to establish rate ceil-
ings in an industry which had never had rate ceilings of 
any kind. There was a wide variety of savings plans with 
rates which ranged all the way to 6 percent per annum. 
Uniformity throughout the country could not be achieved 
without substantial damage to certain regional areas. 
Therefore, the Board established as of October 1, 1966, 
a broad base of a 4 3/4 percent passbook rate and a 
5 1/4 percent certificate rate, with certain regional 
exceptions. Some of these regional exceptions were 
changed as of January 1, 1967, which has resulted in the 
following: 
1. States where certain areas are permitted to 
pay a 5 percent passbook rate because of 
savings bank competition: 
Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York 
2. States where certain areas are permitted to 
pay a 5 percent passbook rate based primarily 
upon prior practice: 
Arizona, Hawaii, Louisiana, Oregon, 
Texas, Utah, Washington, Wisconsin 
3. States permitted to pay a 5 1/4 percent pass-
book rate: 
Alaska, California, Nevada 
4. All other states and certain areas in those 
states shown in categories 1 and 2 are 
restricted to a 4 3/4 percent passbook rate 
and a 5 1/4 percent certificate rate. 

5/11/67 
-6-
(Attached is a statement dated May 8, 1967, of the detail 
of the original rate ceilings established by our Board 
and an indication of the changes made therein effective 
January 1, 1967. Please note that associations which 
pay no more than a 4 3/4 percent rate on passbooks may 
pay a certificate rate of up to 5 1/4 percent. Associa-
tions which pay higher than a 4 3/4 percent passbook 
rate are limited to a certificate rate of 5 percent 
except that in Alaska, California, and Nevada, associa-
tions are limited to a 5 1/4 percent rate on both pass-
books and certificates.) 
Our Board is desirous of taking further steps to 
establish a greater uniformity of rates throughout the 
country. Moreover, we are concerned that a number of 
associations may be paying rates beyond their earning 
capacity. In this regard, we sense a reluctance on the 
part of associations in many areas to voluntarily reduce 
their rates in the face of existing or potential competi-
tion. 
These underlying facts suggest the desirability of 
our Board's taking action toward lowering average rates 
paid by savings and loan associations. At the same time 
the Board does not desire to upset competitive balances 
so as to interfere with the currently satisfactory res-
toration of the flow of funds into savings and loan asso-
ciations which augurs a return to more normalcy in the 
home financing market. Consequently, the precise nature 
of any action which may be taken by our Board is par-
tially dependent upon the nature of action, if any, 
which may be taken with respect to ceiling rates by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In this regard, 
the questions which have occurred to our Board are as 
follows: 
1. If consideration is being given to some reduction 
in bank ceiling rates on CDs below $100,000, would 
a 4.75 percent rate be feasible? Such a reduction 
would assume a reduction in certificate rates for 
savings and loan associations to 5 percent nation-
wide . 

i 869 
5/11/67 
-7-
2. Would it be possible for the banking supervisory 
agencies to consider a category of CDs with maturi-
ties less than 6 months, with a ceiling rate 1/4 per-
cent below the ceiling for CDs of 6 months and longer? 
(Our Board presently requires certificate accounts of 
savings and loan associations to be for a 6-month min-
imum and $1,000 minimum.) 
3. As an alternate to question 2 above, could it be 
required that CDs of less than 6 months maturity and 
less than $1,000 would only carry the passbook rate? 
4. Would it be possible to lower the passbook rate for 
mutual savings banks to 4 1/2 percent? Or 4 3/4 per-
cent? 
5. Would it be feasible to consider a prohibition against 
compounding more frequently than quarterly? 
(Our 
Board would be willing to consider action in this 
area if there would be comparable action with respect 
to banks and mutual savings banks.) 
Governor Robertson said that, as Chairman Home indicated, the 
Home Loan Bank Board proposals would come up this afternoon at a meet-
ing of the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. The letter dealt, 
°f course, with an important topic in which all of the Board members 
were interested, and he would suggest that consideration of the subject 
by the Board be deferred. He proposed, at this afternoon's meeting, 
simply to express the Board's view that legislative action to extend 
the Act of September 21, 1966, should not be sought until after July 1, 
and to indicate that he would bring back to the Board for consideration 
such proposals for action on ceiling rates as might be presented by 
Chairman Home. 

1870 
5/11/67 
-8-
Chairman Martin concurred in Governor Robertson's suggested 
approach, adding that the question was important enough to warrant con-
sidering whether some discussion of it at the Federal Open Market Com-
mittee meeting on Tuesday, May 23, would be advisable. 
As to the Treasury draft bill (on which the Board previously 
had reported to the Budget Bureau) that would make permanent the Act 
of September 21, 1966, Governor Robertson said he understood the Trea-
sury Department had now changed its position and was writing to the 
appropriate Congressional Committees urging an extension of the Act on 
a two-year basis. It was also his understanding that the Home Loan Bank 
Board wished to have its authority under the Act expanded to cover non-
member savings and loan associations. 
Governor Maisel suggested that in talking to the Coordinating 
Committee it would be well to stress that the Board was concerned about 
what was happening in the long-term end of the market, that any inter-
ference with the market at this time could have unanticipated consequences 
in terms of the flows of funds, and that the market therefore ought to 
be given as much freedom as possible. Governor Robertson replied that 
those points would be borne in mind. 
Columbia Bank and Trust Company. Governor Robertson reported 
further developments in the matter of Columbia Bank and Trust Company, 
a Proposed new bank to be established in the town of Columbia, Maryland. 
Initially the bank was to have been owned by a holding company, the 

I S ? 
5/11/67 
-9-
stock of which would be held in equal amounts by Suburban Trust Company 
(Hyattsville) and Equitable Trust Company (Baltimore), both nonmember 
banks. 
Governor Robertson said he understood that Suburban Trust Com-
pany had now withdrawn from the negotiations. Under a revised proposal, 
50 per cent of the stock of the new bank would be held by Equitable 
Trust Company and 50 per cent by nonbank interests. In reply to a ques-
tion from Chairman Randall of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
he had expressed the view, with which Chairman Randall concurred, that 
the revised proposal would seem to resolve the questions seen in the 
original proposal from the standpoint of section 7 of the Clayton Act. 
Governor Maisel withdrew from the meeting at this point to keep 
another engagement. All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman 
and Kenyon also withdrew. 
Services of Mr. Yager. In 1964 the services of Charles A. 
Yager, Chief, Government Finance Section, Division of Research and 
Statistics, were made available to the Secretariat of the Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and Development for duty in Paris as Director 
the National Accounts and Statistics Branch. Under the terms of 
the agreement Mr. Yager continued as a Board employee and was provided 
allowances comparable to those afforded foreign service officers of the 
Department of State in the Paris area. The Board was to obtain reim-
bursement for Mr. Yager's salary and the other allowances in the amount 

l.ST'S 
5/11/67 
-10-
* , F h 
that would be paid by the Organization to an employee on its own staff 
tor such services. In 1966 the Board approved an extension of Mr. 
V-Y 
Yager's assignment until the end of August 1967. Mr. Yager's return 
to the U.S. was now contemplated, and the Divisions of Research and 
Statistics and International Finance were each desirous of obtaining 
his services in the capacity of Associate Adviser. 
Upon recommendation by Governor Robertson, the heads of the 
interested divisions were authorized to negotiate with Mr. Yager with 
a view to obtaining his services in one of the two divisions, accord-
ing to his choice, at a salary of $22,500. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Pursuant to the rec-
ommendation in a memorandum from the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
dated May 8, 1967, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board on 
May 10, 1967, the establishment of 
an additional economist position in 
the Business Conditions Section. 

1873 
B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/11/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R B E S P O N D E N O E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 11, 1967 
V 
Board of Directors, 
The Peoples Bank of Montross, 
Virginia, Incorporated, 
Montross, Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System approves an investment in bank 
premises of $15,000 by The Peoples Bank of Montross, 
Virginia, Incorporated, Montross, Virginia, for the 
purpose of providing landscaping and parking facilities 
at the new bank building. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
0 

B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
5/11/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 11, 1967. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 23, 1967, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act and Regulation M, for the First National City Bank 
("FNCB"), New York, New York, to purchase and hold all or substan-
tially all of the capital stock of Banco Riachuelo, S.A. ("Banco"), 
Sao Paulo, Brazil, at a cost of approximately $3,700,000, provided 
such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Banco by FNCB is granted subject to the applicable pro-
visions of Section 25 and Regulation M and the condition that FNCB 
shall not hold any shares of stock in Banco if Banco at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible to a national 
bank or to a foreign branch of a national bank under the provisions 
of Regulation M. 
The above consent is granted with the further condition 
that FNCB shall not carry on its books the shares acquired of Banco 
at a net amount in excess of its proportionate share of the book 
capital accounts of Banco, after giving effect to the elimination 
of all known losses. 
Regulation M provides that, when required by the Board of 
Governors, FNCB will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Banco as it may require from time to time. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of the First National City Bank, First National City 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1875 
First National City Bank 
-2-
Overseas Investment Corporation and International Banking Corpora-
tion, will not cause the total of such loans and investments to 
exceed the guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E„ Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1878 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 3 
D F T H E 
5/11/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2*. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
e; 
) ' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 11, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Citizens State Bank, 
Cadott, Wisconsin. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System approves an additional investment 
in bank premises of not to exceed $165,000 by Citizens 
State Bank, Cadott, Wisconsin. This latter amount 
includes $17,500 for land which has been purchased, 
$125,100 for construction of new banking quarters, and 
$22,400 for unfore seen contingencies in connection with 
construction costs. 
• Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

18 
67" 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
5/11/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T U T H E 
B O A R D 
May 19, 1967 
Mr. George D„ Royer, Jr., 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Royer: 
This refers to your letter of May 2, 1967, presenting 
the question whether loans by Commerce Trust Company, a State member 
bank, to an affiliate, collateraled by warehoused real estate loans 
covered by "take out" commitments, would be secured by collateral 
meeting the requirement of section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act, 
It is stated that Commerce Trust Company has extended a 
line of credit to a mortgage company for the past several years, and 
the bank's parent corporation, Commerce Bankshares Inc., is proposing 
to purchase the mortgage company thus creating an affiliate relation-
ship between the bank and the company. It is further stated that the 
practice of the mortgage company has been to originate loans either 
while having a prior commitment from an ultimate investor to pay the 
mortgage company a guaranteed amount at the time of "take out" by 
the ultimate investor, or to originate loans where a commitment has 
not been received from an ultimate investor at the time the loan is 
made. Between the date when funds are advanced by the mortgage 
company and the date of "take out", these notes, with supporting 
deeds of trusts or mortgages, are pledged as collateral for loans to 
the mortgage company. 
It is pointed out that the Board many years ago issued an 
interpretation (1933 Federal Reserve Bulletin 566) indicating that 
mortgages arising out of the ordinary type of direct loans on real 
estate usually are not obligations of the kind contemplated by the 
statute for use as collateral to loans to an affiliate. The reason-
ing for their exclusion was that the security required by statute 
should consist of obligations for which there are sufficient price 
quotations on the open market to make it possible to determine their 
market value with reasonable accuracy. However, the Board stated 

1878 
Mr. George D. Royer, Jr. 
-2-
that it was not impossible for real estate mortgages to meet the 
marketability requirement. 
The notes with their supporting deeds of trusts or mortgages, 
pledged to secure the borrowings of the mortgage company, are said to 
be valid and enforceable obligations with the funds having been 
advanced to the borrowers at the time the same are pledged. As the 
commitments of the ultimate investors establish the price which will 
be paid for the notes on a day certain, it appears that a market value 
is established. Accordingly, the Board is of the opinion that in such 
cases, if the collateral security equals at least 120 per cent of the 
loan or extension of credit, a loan by the member bank to the affili-
ated mortgage company would be adequately secured within the requirements 
of section 23A. 
The question of marketability depends upon various factors 
when consideration is being given to the use of individual mortgages 
as collateral to loans, and it is recognized that the market for 
mortgages, particularly those Federally underwritten, is more 
definitely established today than it was in 1933. Therefore, the 
Board's 1933 interpretation should be viewed in the light of present 
conditions, especially where an affiliate is engaged in the business 
of warehousing real estate loans. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
5/11/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 11, 1967 
Mr. Robert Bc McCullough, 
Financial Vice President, 
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, 
500 Mott Foundation Building, 
Flint 2, Michigan. 
48502 
Dear Mr. McCullough: 
This acknowledges your letter of April 28, 1967, addressed 
to Mr. Leland Ross, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
wherein you request on behalf of Charles Stewart Mott Foundation an 
additional 30-day extension of time from May 1, 1967, within which, 
pursuant to the requirements of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
as amended, there may be filed a Registration Statement on behalf of 
Mott Foundation, 
As you are undoubtedly aware, the subject request for 
additional time was transmitted by you to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago on the last business day preceding Foundations deadline for 
filing its Registration Statement. The request was received by the 
Reserve Bank on May 1 and by the Board on May 3, two days beyond the 
Period granted Foundation for filing its Registration Statement. The 
Board notes that the initial request on behalf of Foundation for an 
extension of time was dated two days subsequent to the December 28, 
1966, deadline for filing the Registration Statement. Apart from the 
question of Foundation's apparent lack of diligence in gathering the 
data necessary to complete its Registration Statement, failure of 
Foundation to submit its requests for extensions cf time reasonably 
in advance of the required filing dates evidences an attitude that 
this Board, as the supervisory authority having direct regulatory 
responsibilities under the Bank Holding Company Act, cannot condone. 
Accordingly, while the Board has granted your request for 
an extension of time until the close of business on May 31, 1967, 
within which to file a Registration Statement on behalf of Foundation, 
you are advised that no further extension of time in this matter will 

1880 
Mr. Robert B. McCullough 
-2-
be considered by the Board, and that if the required Registration 
Statement has not been received at the Board's offices on or before 
Hay 31, 1967, that fact will be promptly transmitted to the United 
States Attorney General for whatever action he finds appropriate in 
the circumstances. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary,, 
• . 

1881 
Item No. 6 
5/11/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Roanoke, Virginia, 
approval of action to become a 
kanlc holding company through the acquisi-
tion of more than 50 per cent of the 
°utstanding voting shares of The First 
National Exchange Bank of Virginia, 
Roanoke, Virginia, and Metropolitan 
National Bank, Richmond, Virginia» 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(l)), and section 222.4(a)(1) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 
CFR 222.4(a)(1)), an application by Dominion Bankshares Corporation, 
Roanoke, Virginia, for the Board's prior approval of action to become 
Q bank holding company through the acquisition of more than 50 per cent 
o f the outstanding voting shares of The First National Exchange Bank 
o f Virginia, Roanoke, Virginia, and Metropolitan National Bank, 
Richmond, Virginia. 

-2-
1882 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller made no recommendation on 
proposal. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on March 21, 1967 (32 Federal Register 4326), which 
Ptovided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
vievs with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was 
Awarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
teceived have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Sard's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of the 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 11th day of May, 1967, 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and Governors 
Robertson, Shepardson, Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer, 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane, 
Governor Sherrill did not participate in the Boardfs 
action in this matter, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Order. 
(S*AL) 

1883 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 7 
5/11/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION, ROANOKE, VIRGINIA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Dominion Banlcshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to beccme a 
hank holding company through the acquisition of more than 50 per cent of 
the voting shares of The First National Exchange Bank of Virginia, Roanoke, 
Virginia ("First National"), and of Metropolitan National Bank, Richmond, 
1/ 
Virginia ("Metropolitan"). As of December 31, 1966, 
First National, 
wi-th 31 offices and total deposits of $300 million, is the fourth largest 
hank and the sixth largest banking organization in Virginia in terms of 
total deposits. Metropolitan is located in downtown Richmond, and has 
$11 
million in deposits after 1-1/2 years of operation. It has but one 
°ffice and is eighth in size of the ten banks in Richmond, 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to> and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The Comptroller's Office acknowledged receipt of notice, but 
^id not respond with views and recommendation concerning the subject 
implication. 
i' Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of this date. 

2 -
i 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
°ther manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly out-
Weighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
^ meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to 
b e served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - If the subject 
Proposal were consummated, Applicant would be the third largest of the 
^ive bank holding companies operating in Virginia. Its control of $311 
Million of deposits would rank it fifth in size with respect to all banking 
°r8anizations in the State. Applicant's resulting share of deposits in 
the State would be but .2 per cent greater than the 5.6 per cent of such 
total deposits now controlled by First National. 
First National operates 31 offices in 18 Virginia localities, 
all of which are in the western and southwestern sections of Virginia. 

1885 
- 3 -
2/ 
Its primary service area 
encompasses 14 separate service areas, one of 
which is the City of Roanoke and portions of the four counties within a 
25-mile radius of that city. This latter area is considered to be the 
area from which First National's main office and seven of its branch offices 
derive approximately 43 per cent of First National's total IPC deposits. 
Consummation of this proposal will not, in the Board's judgment, have any 
significant competitive consequences in First National's primary service 
area. 
Metropolitan's primary service area (the area from which it is 
estimated approximately 90 per cent of its total IPC deposits are derived) 
is the City of Richmond, located 170 miles from Roanoke and about 130 miles 
from the closest office of First National. There are 10 banks located in 
Richmond, the area that will be principally affected by consummation of 
Applicant' s proposal. Of the 10 banks, four (including two holding company 
subsidiaries) control 91 per cent of the total deposits held by them; the 
two largest banks hold 62 per cent of the deposits of all banks in the 
It is reasonably foreseen that Applicant's entry into the Richmond 
banking market could effect a deconcentration in the existing control of 
banking resources, particularly with respect to the two large Richmond 
banks, one of which holds $535 million of deposits, and the other, $341 
Million. 
The area from which it is estimated that First National derives 
° per cent of its deposits of individuals, partnerships, and corporations 
("IPC deposits"). 

1886 
- 4 -
Each of the proposed subsidiary banks derives a substantial 
portion of its loans and IPC deposits from its own primary service area 
and only a negligible amount of loans and such deposits from the primary 
service areas of the other bank. With the exception of the City of Roanoke, 
First National's service areas are predominantly rural in nature, while 
Metropolitan serves an urban and commercial territory. While there is 
little significant variation between the deposit structures of the two 
banks, there is a wide difference in the emphasis given to types of loans 
in the two banks. Real estate loans are almost twice as large a percentage 
First National's total loan portfolio as they are in the case of 
Metropolitan. On the other hand, commercial and industrial loans con-
stitute a significantly larger portion of Metropolitan's total loans than 
they do of First National's total loans. 
Although each of the subject banks conducts correspondent bank 
business (Metropolitan, on a very modest scale), the two banks do not 
carry balances with each other nor do banks located in the primary service 
area of one have balances with the other institution. Metropolitan does 
not operate a trust department; First National is quite active in this 
field. The aforementioned distinctions in the emphasis that each bank 
Sives to certain types of business, Metropolitan's small size in relation 
t o First National, and the distance separating the two institutions, 
e*Plain the negligible present competition between these two banks and, 
the Board's judgment, indicate a lack of reasonable likelihood that 
significant competition would develop between them in the foreseeable 
future. 

1887 
- 5 -
As earlier stated, approval of Applicant's proposal will have 
little effect on competition in the areas primarily served by First 
National. Its potential as a state-wide competitor would be enhanced, 
however, through its affiliation with Metropolitan. In addition to the 
competition First National now offers within its service area to state-
wide banking organizations and large out-of-state banks for large com-
raerical and industrial accounts, it will, by the proposed affiliation, 
be able to compete more effectively for this business. 
Competition among banks in Richmond should be further enhanced 
by Metropolitan's broadened service potential. Its ability to handle, 
conjunction with its Roanoke affiliate, larger lines of credit; its 
Prospects as a full service correspondent bank; and its improved ability 
t o more readily and completely serve the banking requirements of the 
retail businesses and individuals in its service area will enhance 
Metropolitan's competitive position vis-a-vis its larger competitors. 
With respect to the two Richmond banks that are somewhat smaller than 
Metropolitan, it may reasonably be assumed that, for those types of 
Rainess for which they and Metropolitan now compete, Metropolitan will 
Bain some competitive advantage. However, the total impact on these banks 
is not reasonably expected to be such as to significantly impede their 
growth and development. 
Summarizing, the Board concludes, on the basis of the record 
before it, that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result 
ln a monopoly, or further any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 

1888 
v 6 * 
°r attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area 
the State, nor would such consummation substantially lessen competi-
tion, tend to create a monopoly, or operate in restraint of trade in any 
relevant area. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant has no financial or operating history. However, its pro forma 
financial condition and its prospects are considered satisfactory in the 
Hght of the satisfactory financial condition and prospects of First 
National and Metropolitan. 
Applicant's management will be composed of directors and officers 
o f the two proposed subsidiary banks. The qualifications and experience 
their managements reasonably suggest that Applicant's management will 
b e satisfactory and that the banks, under Applicant's control, will con-
tinue their records of sound operations. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
siderations related to the banking factors are consistent with approval 
the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - There is 
n°thing in the record from which it can be concluded that the major 
banking needs of either the Roanoke or Richmond areas are not now being 
reasonably served. Applicant does not propose to alter the scope or 
nature of the services now offered by First National in its service area. 
However, with respect to the Richmond area, Applicant asserts that the 
Proposed affiliation will result in a broadening of the scope and nature 
°f services offered by Metropolitan, thus enabling that bank to serve 

- 7 -
1 8 8 9 
better the Richmond community and to compete more ably with the larger 
Richmond banks. As earlier stated, Applicant proposes to broaden sub-
stantially Metropolitan's commercial loan services. Additionally, that 
bank will obtain fiduciary powers in order to serve, under the experienced 
guidance of First National, what appears to be an increasing demand for 
corporate trust services in Richmond. First National is presently a major 
correspondent for nearly 100 banks, many of which also maintain accounts 
with the larger Richmond banks. Applicant's proposal to make available 
to Metropolitan the experience of First National's correspondent bank 
department can be expected to sharpen competition among Richmond banks 
for these correspondent accounts, as well as provide an additional 
alternative for banks seeking such services. 
In the Board's judgment, the oroader range of services that will 
be available from and through Metropolitan, operating as an affiliate of 
First National under Applicant's proposal, offers reasonable assurance of 
Public benefit, both with respect to additional and more convenient 
services, and increased competition, as to weigh toward approval of the 
application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
H ay 11, 1967. 
