MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 26, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 26, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman-^/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
vi 4, £ i' • • • 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Philadelphia Bank. Chairman Martin reported that he had 
been informed by Chairman Winn of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
t A :• 
1 • ' 
Philadelph 
ia that it was the unanimous intention of the Board of 
Directors of that Reserve Bank to name David P. Eastburn, at 
Present Senior Vice President, to the office of President to 
succeed Mr. Bopp upon the latter's retirement. 
. ^Xvi 1 i. .. 
; 
The Board members expressed no objection to this proposal. 
v- -U 
Chairman Martin then indicated that the Philadelphia 
i'ly 
directors had been inclined to announce the appointment of Mr. 
Eastburn as early as midyear, but he had suggested, he said, that 
it might be more advisable to delay the announcement until a date 
closer to Mr. Bopp's retirement. 
Other Board members indicated that they agreed with the 
re 
. .• 
. 
. 
^airman1 s view. 
-•> U) 
Chairman Martin then withdrew from the meeting, 
i/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

6/26/69 
-2-
D ivis ion r e o rganization. Governor Sherrill presented for the 
Board's consideration a memorandum addressed to him under date of 
June 16, 1969, by Mr. Partee, who was to assume office as Director 
°f the Division of Research and Statistics at the end of this month, 
in which Mr. Partee proposed a realignment of officers' assignments 
within that Division. 
After discussion, the Board indicated that it would have no 
objection to the proposed assignments for the conduct of the 
Divi sion's responsibilities. The nature of the assignments is shown 
in the listing attached to these minutes as Item No. 1. 
Adjustment of salary schedule. The Federal Salary Act of 
1967 (Public Law 90-206) provided for comparability of Federal 
civilian employees' salaries with rates paid in private enterprise, 
to be accomplished by three adjustments effective in October 1967, 
July 1968, and July 1969. The first two adjustments had been 
accomplished on schedule, and the President had now signed an 
Executive Order to effect the final part of the three-part adjust-
ment, effective with the first full pay period on or after July 1, 
1969. The Executive Order provided percentage increases in the 
respective grades of the employee salary schedule ranging from 3.0 
t o 10.3 per cent. 
Governor Sherrill asked for the views of the Board members 
concerning the question of adjusting the Board's regular salary 
schedule in conformity with the adjustment to the Civil Service 

2087 
6/26/69 
-3-
schedule and said that a memorandum from the Division of Personnel 
Administration covering the details was to be distributed to the 
Board members shortly. 
Board members expressed their general agreement with an 
adjustment of the Board's regular salary schedule in conformity 
with the Civil Service adjustment, with one exception. The Civil 
Service program involved no increase in Grade 1 salaries, and all 
Board members present felt that some increase for employees of the 
Board at that grade level was desirable. Governor Sherrill indicated 
that he would request the Personnel Director to include an appropriate 
suggestion of that kind in the memorandum to be distributed. (Note: 
The memorandum was subsequently distributed and was approved at the 
Board meeting on June 27, 1969.) 
Foreign travel. Upon recommendation by Governor Sherrill, 
the Board authorized travel by Paul Gekker, Senior Economist, Division 
°f International Finance, during the period September 1 until about 
September 17, 1969, for the following purposes: (1) to attend a 
seminar on economic planning sponsored by the Center for Research 
ar*d Study of Social and Economic Problems, to be held in Budapest, 
Hungary, September 3-5, and (2) to visit the central banks of Hungary, 
Czechoslovakia, Poland, and England. It was understood that expenses 
board and lodging during the seminar would be borne by the 
sponsoring organization. 

6/26/69 
-4-
Personnel matters. Upon recommendation by Governor Sherrill, 
the Board approved the payment of salary to Harry J. Halley, 
Assistant Controller, at the annual rate of $25,500 (an increase 
from $23,000), effective July 13, 1969. Governor Sherrill pointed 
°ut that Mr. Halley would have received a salary increase of $2,000 
under the midyear Civil Service adjustment had he remained with his 
Previous employer, the Office of Economic Opportunity, and there 
had been an understanding that in the circumstances an increase of 
• • ' 
-'< ' ? . w 
I 
similar amount would be made in his Board salary at the appropriate 
time. Governor Sherrill said that Mr. Halley1s performance since 
Joining the Board's staff had revealed even more breadth of experience 
and usefulness of talent than had been anticipated, and that accord-
ingly a somewhat larger increase than $2,000 seemed appropriate. 
The Board also approved the establishment of an additional 
secretarial position in the Office of the Controller, the incumbent 
t o be assigned as secretary to Mr. Halley. 
Pursuant to the further recommendation of Governor Sherrill, 
the Board approved the reestablishment of a position of senior 
Program analyst in the Office of the Controller and approved the 
aPPointment to that position of Benjamin T. Teeter, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty, with annual salary at the rate of $21,589. 
p 
^vernor Sherrill 
said that Mr. Teeter was presently a senior analyst 
in the Office of Economic Opportunity and that his appointment at the 
Or 
j 
a 
1 5 level would fill in the structure of the Controller's Office 

2089 
6/26/69 
-5-
that had earlier been provided in anticipation of Mr. Halley's 
recruitment. Mr. Teeter had worked closely with Mr. Halley and 
appeared to have background and experience of a kind that would 
make him valuable in connection with the enlarged staff management 
activities now being planned. 
The following then entered the meeting: 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 

Ki 
i 
6/26/69 
-6-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Appropriate supporting staff 
Establishment of branches in New Jersey. In a memorandum 
dated June 17, 1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
called attention to bank legislation recently enacted in New Jersey 
that among other things liberalized de novo branching privileges. 
As a result, numerous branch applications had been received by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Philadelphia and, it was 
understood, by the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Federal Reserve Banks and the 
State Banking Department were processing the applications as 
e*peditiously as possible in order that announcements might be 
roade shortly after the new legislation became effective on July 17, 
1969. 
The memorandum pointed out that in some areas it was possible 
that over-banking might result. It was understood that the State 
Bank Commissioner recently met with the Comptroller of the Currency 
an effort to determine a way to control the number of new branches 
in certain areas and at the same time assure equality of treatment 
a s between State and national banks; apparently no accord was reached 
Mr. Egertson pointed out that the branch applications filed 
°y State member banks would normally be handled by the Reserve Banks 

2091 
i 
6/26/69 
-7-
concerned under delegated authority. In view of the unusual circum-
stances involved, the Division was bringing the matter to the 
attention of the Board, but with the recommendation that the 
applications continue to be processed in the usual way and that their 
processing be expedited so that the State member banks would not 
be placed in a disadvantageous position competitively. 
After discussion, agreement was expressed with the Division's 
recommendation. In accordance with a suggestion by Governor 
Robertson, it was understood that discussion would be initiated 
with the Comptroller of the Currency with regard to the possibility 
that over-banked situations might result in certain areas if all of 
the applications by national and State banks were approved. (Note: 
At the Board meeting on June 27, Governor Robertson reported that 
the Comptroller had received approximately 130 branch applications 
from national banks and was preparing to approve all of them, it 
being the Comptroller's view that any other course of action might 
result in problems under the antitrust laws.) 
Policy record entries. There had been distributed a memo-
randum from Mr. Broida dated June 20, 1969, submitting the policy 
record entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
°n April 1, 1969. The entry had been approved by the Board on May 29, 
n o further suggestions had been received, and it was now being sub-
mitted for final review. 

'mm 
6/26/69 
-8-
The release of the entry to the press on Monday, June 30, 
was approved unanimously. 
With a memorandum dated June 23, 1969, Mr. Broida submitted 
a draft of policy record entry covering the meeting of the Federal 
Open Market Committee on April 29, 1969, as revised to take account 
°f comments received following distribution of a preliminary draft. 
The entry was approved by the Board, with the understanding 
that it would be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents for 
Possible further comments and that it would be released to the 
Press about July 28, 1969, after final Board review. 
Barnett National Securities Corporation. There had been 
'S:t(! Ji. , ^ ;* . v • 
;. 
• : r. , 
distributed drafts of orders and a statement reflecting the Board's 
aPproval on May 14, 1969, of the application of Barnett National 
Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Citizens National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida, 
and the Board's denial of Barnett's application to acquire shares 
i.&C " r . 
' 
, • 
o f Union Trust National Bank of St. Petersburg. 
The issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 2. 
Meeting of central bank technicians. There had been distributed 
a "Memorandum from Mr. Solomon relating to an invitation from the 
Central Reserve Bank of Peru for the Federal Reserve to participate in 
t h 
L n e Ninth Meeting of Central Bank Technicians of the American Continent 
to be held in Lima in November. The memorandum recommended that 

2093 
6/26/69 
-9-
participation in the meeting be authorized. Attached was a draft 
letter of acceptance. 
Following discussion, the letter to the Central Reserve 
Bank of Peru was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
Reduced reserves. The following items were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had 
been made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the 
respective numbers indicated 
Item No. 
Letter to United States National Bank, 
4 
San Diego, California, granting its 
request for permission to continue to 
maintain reduced reserves, with the 
understanding that the permission would 
be subject to revocation when its new 
Los Angeles headquarters building was 
completed and occupied, or earlier if 
there should be any significant change 
in the character of the bank's business. 
Letter to The Traders National Bank, 
5 
Kansas City, Missouri, granting its 
request for permission to maintain 
reduced reserves. 
Reserve Bank budgets. In a memorandum dated June 10, 1969, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations presented an analysis 
the proposed budgets of the Federal Reserve Banks and branches for 
the second half of 1969. Total controllable expenses were expected 
t o increase by $4.8 million (4 per cent). This increase reflected a 
$6.2 million rise in operating expenses, with each of the Federal 
Reserve Banks participating, offset partially by other factors. 

2i >' >4 
6/26/69 
-10-
In assessing the budgets the Division noted that there was 
indication that the Banks had exercised restraint, in line with 
the Board's request in its letter of April 16, 1969. The Banks 
were facing ever-increasing pressures to keep pace with technological 
advances and to participate in new programs, and in the circumstances 
the Division was of the view that they had achieved a reasonable 
balance between restraint and necessary requirements in estimating 
their expenses. It was recommended that the budgets be accepted. 
After discussion, the budgets were accepted. A copy of the 
telegram sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston is attached as 
Item No. 6; the telegrams to the other Reserve Banks were in similar 
form. 
Euro-dollars. To take account of suggestions made at 
yesterday's meeting, there had been distributed a revised draft of 
Press release relating to proposed amendments to Regulation M 
(Foreign Activities of National Banks) that would impose reserve 
requirements against certain Euro-dollar transactions and amendments 
to Regulation D (Reserves of Member Banks) that would define as 
deposits any borrowing by a member bank from a foreign bank and 
impose a reserve requirement against such deposits. 
Today's discussion focused on the setting of a formula to 
Provide a minimum reserve-free base in order to reduce inequities 
that might otherwise accrue to those banks that had not heretofore 
keen active in the Euro-dollar market. Governor Maisel noted that 

) 9 5 
6/26/69 
-li-
the present draft would fix that base at 3 per cent of a bank's 
total assets as of December 31, 1968. However, such an arrangement 
would put a premium on window dressing as well as make the base 
stationary. He suggested instead a formula whereby the base for 
any member bank with a foreign branch would be equal to 3 per cent 
of its total average deposits subject to reserve requirements. 
After some debate, this suggestion was accepted. 
There followed a discussion of the relationship of such a 
base to the imposition of a 10 per cent reserve requirement on 
borrowings of U.S. banks from their foreign branches in excess of 
daily average amounts during specified computation periods, and 
language was suggested to clarify this point. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the issuance of a 
Press release in the form attached as Item No. 7. 
Federal funds transactions. There had been distributed a 
revised draft of press release relating to proposed amendments to 
Regulation D (Reserves of Member Banks) and Regulation Q (Payment of 
Interest on Deposits) that would bring a member bank's liability on 
certain Federal funds transactions within the coverage of the regu-
lations . 
Several changes of a technical nature were agreed upon, and 
Governor Robertson then suggested that issuance of the release be 
delayed pending consultation with the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation with respect to a similar move by that Corporation. 

2096 
6/26/69 
-12-
Unanimous approval was then given to the issuance of the 
press release, subject to the above understanding. (Note: A copy 
of the press release, as subsequently issued, is attached as 
Item No. 8.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2097 
Item No. 1 
6/26/69 
Suggested Organization of the Division of Research and Statistics 
» 
" 
Partee, Director 
Axilrod, Associate Director 
Keir, Associate Adviser 
Capital Markets 
Government Finance 
; 
/ 
Sigel, Adviser 
Banking - Eckcrt, Asst. Adviser 
Consumer Credit 
Flow of Funds 
* 
Wernj.ck, Associate Adviser 
National Income - Zeisel, Asst. Adviser 
Business Conditions 
Gramley, Associate Director 
Special Studies 
Smith, Adviser 
Banking Markets - Shull, Asst. Adviser 
Statistical Methodology 
Administration 
Williams, Adviser 
Editing, including Greenbook, Bulletin and Annual Report 
Library 
Weiner, Asst. Adviser 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, 
1 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
' 
approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
1 
more of the voting shares of Citizens 
1 
National Bank of St. Petersburg, 
' 
St« Petersburg, Florida. 
1 
" - - 
i 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3))and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett National 
Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, for the Board's prior 
aPproval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Citizens National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, 
Fl°rida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
2098 
Item No. 2 
6/26/69 
SYSTEM 

2099 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 4, 1969 (34 Federal Register 1707), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time shall be extended for good cause by the Board 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 26th day of June, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
more of the voting shares of Union Trust 
National Bank of St. Petersburg, 
st. Petersburg, Florida. 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett National 
Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
yoting shares of Union Trust National Bank of St. Petersburg, 
Petersburg, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Vr*tten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
th 
6 Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 4, 1969, (34 Federal Register 1708), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
ai*d views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
c°nsideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
l8 denied. 
' n • - • 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 26th day of June, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
•, 
• •. • 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK OF ST. PETERSBURG, ST. PETERSBURG, FLORIDA, 
AND OF UNION TRUST NATIONAL BANK OF 
ST. PETERSBURG, ST. PETERSBURG, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, 
Florid 
a ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has 
applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of 
^ e Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for 
P^lor approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
v°ting shares of (1) Citizens National Bank of St. Petersburg, 
st. Petersburg, Florida ("Citizens National"), and (2) Union Trust 
National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida ("Union 
Trust"). Although each of these proposals is the subject of a 
Separate application and Board Order, this Statement contains the 
B°ard's findings and conclusions with respect to both applications 
because many of the facts and circumstances involved are common to 
both. 

2103 
-2-
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
aPplications was given to the Comptroller of the Currency and his 
views and recommendations were requested. The Comptroller recommended 
aPproval of both applications. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transactions. -
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in Florida, owns 
a majority interest in 14 banks which hold total deposits of $508.3 
million, representing 4.4 per cent of the total deposits held by all 
insured commercial banks in Florida.""^ Applicant would control 5.6 per 
cent of such deposits if the proposed acquisition of Union Trust were 
consummated, and 6.0 per cent if it acquired both Union Trust and 
Citizens National; in either case, it would become the third largest 
inking organization in the State. Acquisition of only Citizens 
^ational would result in its control of 4.8 per cent of such deposits, 
a n d 
that event Applicant would retain its position as the State's 
fourth largest banking organization. 
Citizens National ($47 million deposits) and Union Trust 
($135 million deposits) are both located in the City of St. Petersburg 
l n Pinell as County, Florida. The closest of Applicant s present 
A U banking data are as of December 31, 1968, unless otherwise noted, 
Jested to reflect holding company acquisitions approved by the Board 
Co date. 

-3-
2104 
subsidiaries are located approximately 80 miles east of St. Petersburg, 
find none competes to any significant extent with either of the proposed 
subsidiaries. 
Union Trust and Citizens National are, respectively, the 
second and fifth largest of 12 banks in St. Petersburg and the second 
and seventh largest of 34 banks in Pinellas County. Union Trust is 
m°re than twice as large as the third largest bank in the county and 
conducts by far the largest trust department in the area. The two 
banks hold, in the aggregate, about 29 per cent of the deposits in 
the city and almost 16 per cent of the deposits in the county, and 
their combined deposits exceed those of the largest bank in the area. 
Union Trust is located in downtown St. Petersburg, and serves 
ttle entire city. Citizens National, located west of the downtown area, 
serves a more limited geographical area lying almost wholly within that 
served by Union Trust. Until 1965, the two banks were competitors; 
a t that time Citizens National was faced with serious financial and 
Management difficulties and Union Trust, at the request of principal 
stockholders of Citizens National and with the encouragement of the 
bank's supervisors, endeavored to assist its recovery. To that end, 
a corporation controlled by stockholders of Union Trust was established 
a n d acquired a majority of the shares of Citizens National; a voting 
trust agreement, which expires in 1976, covers a majority of the shares 
o f the corporation and provides further assurance of control of Citizens 
National by stockholders of Union Trust. A majority of the directors 

Citizens National also serve as directors of Union Trust, and 
eight of the ten trustees under the voting trust agreement are directors 
°f both banks. 
Although the relationship between the two banks precludes the 
G*istence of meaningful competition between them at present, the recent 
°rigin and circumstances of that relationship make difficult any assess 
ment of its probable duration. Acquisition of both banks by Applicant, 
however, would make affiliation of the banks permanent, thereby fore-
closing any likelihood of future competition between them and elimi-
nating the potential for competition which could result if the present 
common ownership were dissipated. That consideration, in and of itself 
adverse to favorable actions on both applications, takes on added sig-
nificance in the light of the size of the two banks relative to other 
uanks in the relevant areas and in view of Applicant's standing as one 
the largest banking organizations in the State. Acquisition of 
UtUon Trust, which is not only one of the largest banks in the 
• Petersburg area, but the fourth largest independent bank in the 
State, by one of the State's largest banking organizations, would tend 
0 Perpetuate 
existing concentration in the local area and increase 
batriers to new entry by others into that area. Also, if the precedent 
e8tablished 
were followed by allowing other large holding companies 
to acquire banks of similar size in other areas, domination of many 
o f the State's significant markets by a small number of large organi-
2ations could result. Approval of the acquisition of both Union Trust 

2106 
and of the fifth largest bank in the St. Petersburg atea by the 
same large organization would compound those anticompetitive effects^ 
and, in the Board's view, cannot be justified absent the most com-
pelling circumstances bearing upon the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved. 
Applicant indicates that, in negotiating agreements with 
directors of the two banks with respect to the two proposed acqui-
sitions, Directors of both banks insisted on the interdependence of 
two proposals, and each of the agreements reached provides that 
the subject bank cannot be acquired separately without the consent 
the Directors of that bank to a modification of the agreement. 
Applicant, however, while expressing doubt that such consent could 
obtained, indicates that it "would give serious consideration" to 
requesting such consent if only one of the applications is approved. 
Acquisition of either bank by Applicant, leaving the other 
a e r its 
present ownership, would have the effect of breaking the 
Pre8ent affiliation, with the prospect that they would become competi-
tors. Should this be accomplished through acquisition of Union Trust, 
however, it is doubtful that Citizens National, which has not fully 
recovered from its earlier difficulties, could compete effectively; 
tlle competitive benefits of that action therefore may be illusory, 
a n d in any case would be outweighed by the risk to the viability of 
C i t i z e n s National which would be created by depriving it of its 
pr®sent support without providing an alternative. In addition, as 

210? 
-6-
earlier noted, consummation of that proposal would tend to perpetuate 
Present concentration in the St, Petersburg area. Acquisition of a 
bank of the size of Union Trust is clearly not necessary to Applicant's 
effective entry into the St. Petersburg market, and entry through that 
roeans would eliminate the potential for deconcentration and for in-
creased competition which would result from Applicant's acquisition 
Citizens National or some other bank smaller than Union Trust. 
Acquisition by Applicant of Citizens National would be in 
furtherance of the goal of preserving and promoting competition in the 
St. Petersburg market. Not only would that acquisition remove the 
^pediment to competition which the present common ownership of Citizens 
National and Union Trust represents, but affiliation with Applicant 
w°uld afford Citizens National the financial and managerial resources 
^hich it requires in order to become an effective competitor. Appli-
Cant's entry into the St. Petersburg area through that means would tend 
to decrease the concentration of deposits in the larger banks in the 
area, without appreciably raising the barriers to entry by others, and 
Without undue adverse effects on competing banks in the area. 
Summarizing the effects of Applicant's proposals on competition, 
i s the Board's conclusion that consummation of both proposals may 
the effect of substantially lessening future competition in the 
St 
• Petersburg area. Acquisition of Union Trust only, while competi-
tively preferable to acquisition of both banks, would still have sig-
nlflcant anticompetitive effects. However, acquisition of Citizens 

Z1 
-7-
National only would be consistent with the preservation of sound 
banking competition, both in the St. Petersburg area and in the State 
of Florida. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition, management, and prospects are regarded 
a s satisfactory. These conclusions also apply with respect to Appli-
cant's present subsidiary banks, except that some of the subsidiaries 
considered to need additional capital; Applicant, however, has 
indicated plans to remedy these capital deficiencies at an early date. 
The financial condition of Citizens National, despite the 
efforts of supervisory authorities and of Union Trust over the last 
several years, continues to be less than satisfactory, with asset weak-
ness and a need for additional capital. The bank has an excellent 
location, and its prospects, which are uncertain at present, would be 
favorable if its problems received appropriate attention under strong 
Management leadership. It appears that Citizens National needs an 
filiation with a large organization in order to cope with these weak-
neS8es, and the present affiliation with Union Trust has been bene-
ficial to it. However, Union Trust, as noted hereafter, itself has 
S° m e management difficulties, and Applicant's greater ability to pro-
vi-de immediate strong management and its assurances of financial sup-
Port weigh heavily in favor of approval of its proposed acquisition 
o f Citizens National. 
Union Trust is in generally satisfactory financial condition. 
a result of the recent retirement of one of its senior officers, 

2109 
-8-
and the prospective retirement of others, coupled with a lack of 
qualified successors at the bank's middle management level, Union Trust 
has some management deficiencies. Applicant has provided assistance 
to the bank in that regard pending the Board's ruling on its appli-
cation to acquire Union Trust, and undoubtedly that acquisition would 
f a c i l i t ate permanent resolution of these difficulties. It appears, 
however, particularly in the light of Union Trust's size and its strong 
Position in an attractive area, that necessary management could be ob-
tained without Applicant's assistance. Therefore, the bank's prospects 
are regarded as favorable regardless of whether it becomes a subsidiary 
Applicant. 
Considerations under these factors provide strong support 
for Applicant's proposal to acquire Citizens National, regardless of 
whether or not the application with respect to Union Trust is also 
approved. Such considerations provide only limited weight in support 
approval of the application of Union Trust, but are consistent with 
such action provided that the application with respect to Citizens 
National is also approved. Because of the unusual circumstances of 
this case, Applicant's acquisition of Union Trust would have adverse 
effects on the banking factors as they apply to Citizens National, 
Unless coupled with approval of the acquisition of the latter bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
The convenience and needs of customers located in areas served by 
Applicant's present subsidiary banks would not be affected by the pro-
Posed acquisition. 

2 1 J 0 
-9-
It does not appear that there are significant unserved banking 
needs in the St. Petersburg area. Acquisition of Citizens National, 
however, would provide the means for upgrading the services of that 
bank, in particular, strong demand for trust services exists in 
St. Petersburg, which is a retirement area, and improvements which 
Applicant could effect in the trust services offered by Citizens National 
would provide a significant alternative supplier of a service presently 
dominated by Union Trust. Convenience and needs considerations therefore 
provide some additional weight in support of the proposed acquisition 
Citizens National. 
Acquisition of Union Trust would not permit Applicant to offer 
the community any services which it could not provide through acquisi-
tion of Citizens National, or which Union Trust could not provide on 
its own initiative. Considerations bearing upon community convenience 
and needs therefore provide no significant weight toward approval of 
that proposal. 
Summary and conclusion. - Based on the foregoing, it appears 
that consummation of Applicant's proposed acquisition of Citizens National 
w°uld promote competition in the St. Petersburg area, would lead to needed 
improvements in the financial condition and prospects of the bank, and 
would serve the convenience and needs of the area. Acquisition of both 
Citizens National and Union Trust, however, would have significant anti-
competitive effects which are not outweighed by any other considerations. 
Acquisition of Union Trust, but not Citizens National, would also have 

210? 
-10-
anticompetitive effects, and, in addition, would involve unacceptable 
> V; i . 
risks with respect to the future of the latter bank. 
On the basis of all relevant facts contained in the record, 
and in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, 
it is the Board's judgment that: 
1. the proposed acquisition of Citizens National would be 
in the public interest, and that application should be approved; 
2. the proposed acquisition of Union Trust would not be in 
the public interest, and that application should be denied. 
June 26, 1969. 

" ' f: 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE: 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2112 
Item No. 3 
6/26/69 
.Ml. RtSfc'i • 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C a H R t S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
V' 
V 
1 
June 26, 1969 
AIR MAIL 
Central Reserve Bank 
of Peru, 
, Lima, Peru. 
Gentlemen: 
This letter will acknowledge receipt of your letter cf 
February 6, 1569. 
On behalf of the Federal Reserve System, the 
Board of Governors is pleased to accept your invitation to parti-
cipate in the Ninth Meeting of Central Bank Technicians of the 
American Continent to be held in Lima between November 17 and 
November 22, 1969. 
We note that, in cooperation with CEMLA, you have pre-
pared a provisional agenda for this meeting and we arc looking 
forward to receiving it in sufficient time to allow us to pre-
pare any papers which may be deemed appropriate for us to sub-
mit to the Meeting. Without waiting for the agenda, we are 
taking steps to begin the preparation of the document on mone-
tary and exchange developments in the United States since the 
last meeting. We shall endeavor to have this paper in your 
hands by mid-August, as you have requested. 
We note also the changes in procedure that you propose 
to introduce at this meeting. We hope that they will contribute 
to a more effective presentation and discussion of the subjects 
on the agenda. 
We look forward to hearing from you further as regards 
this meeting. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
! J 

% 
RE 
M 
m 
2113 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 4 
6/26/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 27, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
United States National Bank, 
San Diego, California. 
92112 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to the Board's letter of December 20, 
1967, and to your bank's letter of June 5, 1969, to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco regarding reserve 
requirements for your bank. 
After further review of this matter, the Board 
grants permission to United States National Bank to continue 
to carry reserves required of banks located outside of reserve 
cities, with the understanding that this permission will be 
subject to revocation by the Board when your bank's new 
Los Angeles headquarters building is completed and occupied, 
or earlier if there should be any significant change in the 
character of its business. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2114 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2C551 
Item No. 5 
6/26/69 
A D O H E H H 
O F F I C I A L 
C O H S E S P D N U E N C E 
TD THE HOARD 
June 26, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
The Traders National Bank, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, the Board of Governors, acting 
under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, grants 
permission to the Traders National Bank to maintain the same reserves 
against deposits as are required to be maintained by member banks not 
in a reserve city, effective with the first reserve computation period 
beginning after the date of this letter. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such permission is 
subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2115 
T E L E G R A M 
I t e m No. 6 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
6/26/69 
BOARD O F GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
June 26, 1969 
J : : 
-
MORRIS - BOSTON 
Board has reviewed and accepts budget of Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston for period July 1 - December 31, 1969, as 
submitted with Mr. Latham's letter of May 19, 1969. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 
o 
u a 
i 

2111.6 
Item No. 7 
6/26/69 
For immediate release 
June 26, 1969 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
Proposed to amend its regulations in order to moderate the flow of 
Euro-dollars between U.S. banks and their foreign branches and also 
between U.S. and foreign banks. Comments on the proposed amendments 
should be submitted to the Board within 30 days. 
Proposed amendments to Regulation M, which governs the foreign 
activities of member banks, would: 
1. Establish.a 10 per cent reserve requirement on borrowings 
U. S. banks from their foreign branches to the extent that these 
borrowings exceed the daily average amounts outstanding in the four 
*eeks ending May 28, 1969. This marginal reserve requirement would 
V 
also apply to assets acquired by the foreign branch from U.S. offices 
the bank. 
To reduce potential inequities that may be involved in use of 
a base period under this proposal, the Board suggested a minimum base 
equal to 3 per cent of total deposits subject to reserve requirements 
any bank with a foreign branch regardless of the magnitude of its 
Previous use of Euro-dollars. 
u 
2. Establish a 10 per cent reserve requirement on branch 
loans to U.S. residents to the extent such loans exceed those in a 
base period defined as either (a) the amount outstanding on June 25, 
1969, or (b) the daily average of amounts outstanding in the four weeks 

ending May 28, 1969. The choice of base would be left to the member 
bank. An exemption for branches with small amounts of loans to U.S. 
residents (less than $5 million on any day of a relevant computation 
period) is included in the proposal. 
In a companion measure, the Board proposed to define as 
deposits subject to Regulation D, which governs reserves of member 
banks, any borrowing by a member bank from a foreign bank. The 
Board proposed a 10 per cent reserve requirement against depcreits of 
this class. 
The reserve requirements proposed in these amendments 
would remove a special advantage to U.S. banks of using Euro-dollars 
for adjustment to domestic credit restraint. The Board noted that 
these reserve-free liabilities of U.S. banks to their foreign 
branches have risen by more than $7 billion since the beginning of 
1969, and by about $3 billion during the first three weeks of June. 
Increases of these magnitudes in liabilities to foreign branches by 
a few large banks have had a distorting influence on credit flows in 
the United States and abroad. 
The Board proposed that banks' reserve-free bases be 
subject to automatic reduction unless such reduction is waived by 
Board action at the time. Under the automatic reduction feature, 
a new base would be established when, in any period used to calculal 
reserve requirement, these claims of foreign branches subject to rei 
requirements fall below the original base. 
Copies of the proposed amendments are attached. 

r r * 
2118 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Parts 204, 213] 
[Regs. D, M] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS' FOREIGN ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL BANKS-' 
Reserves Against Certain Foreign Transactions 
The Board of Governors is considering amending Part 204 and 
art 213 to impose reserve requirements against certain transactions usually 
I ittL 
Solving so-called "Euro-dollars" - deposits of United States dollars 
banks located outside the United States, including overseas branches 
0f United States banks. 
The proposed amendments are designed to remove a special advan-
age to member banks of using Euro-dollars for adjustment to domestic 
c*edit 
restraint. The increasing magnitude of this practice has had a 
°-ting influence on credit flows in the United States and abroad. 
Specifically, the proposed amendments would: 
(1) Establ ish a 10 per cent reserve requirement against (a) bor-N 
n g s by domestic offices of member banks from their foreign branches and 
<b> a s 
sets of foreign branches acquired from domestic offices of its parent 
^ber k , 
oank, to the extent that such borrowings and assets exceed the daily 
amounts outstanding in the four weeks ending May 28, 1969. 
(2) Establish a 10 per cent reserve requirement against credit 
ended by a foreign branch of a member bank to United States residents, 
the extent such credits exceed those in a base period defined as either 
U) th 
amount outstanding on June 25, 1969, or (b) the daily average 
outstanding in the four weeks ending May 28, 1969. 
tio^Pite the title of Part 213, the conditions, limitations, and restric-
t s t h e r e i n a r e applicable to foreign activities of State-chartered member 
4 6 veil as national, banks (12 U.S.C. .321, 601), 

2119 
-2-
(3) Establish a 10 per cent reserve requirement on borrowings 
by m e m b e r banks from banks abroad that are not denominated as deposits. 
Each of the reserve requirements would be maintained by member 
bat>k head offices in a manner similar to that applicable to their deposit 
^abilities generally. 
' ^ I-*' • » 
The first two of the proposed requirements would be accomplished 
adding a new section to Part 213, as follows: 
' 
Marginal reserve requirements. 
(a) Member bank transactions with foreign branches. During each 
Week of the four-week period beginning [the seventh Thursday after the ef-
date of this paragraph] and each week of each successive four-week 
Maintenance") period, a member bank having one or more foreign branches 
in addition to the requirements of Part 204 of this chapter (Regula-
D), keep on deposit with the Reserve Bank of its district a daily 
age balance equal to 10 per cent of the amount by which the daily aver-
age 
Qgg 
net total of (1) outstanding assets held by its foreign branches which 
re Purchased from its domestic offices and (2) balances due from its domes-
i < 
Uc offices to its foreign branches, for the four-week ("computation") period 
nS on the Wednesday fifteen days before the beginning of each maintenance 
^ t o d 
a> exceeds the greater of either (i) the corresponding daily average 
total f 
I Qr either the four-week period ending May 28, 1969 or any computa-
U 0 n Period beginning on or after [the effective date of this paragraph], 
^tch V er is least, or (ii) three per cent of the member bank's average 
total d eposits subject to reserve requirements during the computation period. 

-3-
(b) Credit extended bv foreign branches to United States residents. 
V i n g e a c h w e e k o f t h e four-veeic period beginning [the seventh Thursday 
^£L_the effective date of this paragraph] and each week cf each succes-
8*Ve four-week maintenance period, a member bank having one or more foreign 
inches shall, in addition to the requirements of Part 204 of this chapter 
Elation D) and of the preceding paragraph, keep on deposit with the 
^serve Bank of its district a daily average balance equal to 10 per cent 
H 
tl*e amount by which daily average credit outstanding from its foreign 
tai*ches to United States residents (other than assets purchased and 
Varices due frcm its domestic offices) for the four-week computation 
ending on the Wednesday fifteen days before the beginning of each 
* ^tenance period exceeds either the corresponding daily average total 
the four-week period ending May 28, 1969 or the total outstanding 
n e 25, 1969: Provided, That this paragraph does not apply with respect 
tq 
V foreign branch which did not have credit outstanding to United States 
i< 
esl^ents exceeding $5 million on any day during the relevant computation 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
The third of the proposed requirements xcould be accomplished: 
(1) by amending the exemption enumerated (1) in § 204.1(f) (relating 
to c 
ertain promissory notes as deposits) by changing "that is issued to 
n°ther bank" to read "that is issued to a domestic office of another bank"; 
(2) by amending § 204.5(a) by changing "subject to paragraph (b)" 
to t 
t 
"subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)"; and 

-4-
(3) by adding to § 204.5 the following new paragraph: 
"(c) Reserve percentage against certain deposits of foreign banks. 
^Posits represented by promissory notes, acknowledgments of advance, due 
^Us, or similar obligations of the kind described in § 204.1(f) that are 
issued to, or undertaken with respect to, a foreign office of another bank 
s^aU not be subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, 
a member bank shall maintain on deposit with the Reserve Bank of its 
^strict a balance equal to 10 per cent of such deposits." 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
^ited States Code, aind section 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure of the 
B°atd of Governors. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, inter-
r e d persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or arguments. 
^ 
such material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be 
Reived not later than July 28, 1969. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 26th day of June 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
^al] 

Z1Z2 
Item No. 8 
6/26/69 
For immediate release 
June 27, 1969 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
invited comments within 30 days on a proposal to bring a member bank's 
liability on certain so-called "Federal funds" transactions with 
customers other than banks within the coverage of RegulationsD (reserve 
of member banks) and Q (payment of interest on deposits) . A copy of 
the proposal is attached. 
- 0 -
% " : • 
• •. 

^J.fOU 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Parts 204, 217] 
[Regs. D, Q] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS; PAYKENT OF INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Certain Federal Funds Transactions as Deposits 
The Board of Governors is considering amending section 204.1(f) 
and section 217.1(f) in order to bring a member bank's liability on certain 
8°-called "Federal funds" transactions with customers other than banks 
Witbin the coverage of Regulations D and Q, At the present time, all such 
ransactions in nondocumentary nondeposit form are exempt from the regulations. 
Recently, some banks have been making the Federal funds market 
aVaUable to their corporate depositors as a means of providing them with 
Merest on short-term funds. In the Board's judgment, there is no justifica-
°n for a bank's liability on such transactions to be exempt from rules govern-
ing r 
reserve requirements and the legal prohibition against payment of interest 
demand deposits. 
In the Board's view there are only two types of Federal funds 
sections entered into by banks that may justifiably be exempt from 
ations D and Q. One is where the liability is to another bank acting 
Principal (and not on behalf of any customer). The other is where the 
u 
al)Uity relates to certain transactions in connection with payment for 
Utities. In the first case, the transactions facilitate implementation 
^ mc 
netary policy; in the second, the transactions are an integral part of 
stablished market practice of settling purchases and sales of securities. 
Limiting the scope of Federal funds transactions that are exempt 
emulations D and Q would be accomplished by amending the general rule 

•2- 
2124 
set forth in section 204.1(f) and section 217.1(f), by modifying the inter-
bank exemption thereto, and by the addition of a new exemption to cover 
Federal funds transactions on securities transactions, as follows: 
"(f) Deposits as including certain promissory notes and other obli-
gations. For the purposes of this part, the term 'deposits' shall be 
denied to include the proceeds of any promissory note, acknowledgment of 
advance, due bill, or similar obligation (written or oral) that is issued 
undertaken by a member bank principally as a means of obtaining funds to 
vised in its banking business, except any such obligation that: 
(1) is issued to, and held for its own account by, a bank 
* * * 
(4) arises from a loan, for one business day, of proceeds of a 
transfer of deposit credit in a Federal Reserve Bank (or other immediately 
Mailable funds), commonly referred to as 'Federal funds', in connection 
V*th payment on that day for securities." 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
States Code, and section 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure of the 
**°ard 0f Governors. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, inter-
r e d persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or arguments. 
^ 
such material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C., 20551, to 
deceived not later than July 28, 1969. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 26th day of June 1969. 
By order of the Hoard of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
