MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 8, 1971 

3G8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 8, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 2/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby and Mr. Morgan of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Staff presented a review of economic and financial developments 
of the kind customarily offered in preparation for meetings of the 
Federal Open Market Committee. 
Copies of the statistical materials 
Prepared for the purpose of today's review have been placed in the 
Board's files along with copies of the individual briefings. 
After discussion based on the presentation, members of the staff 
who had attended for the purpose of the review left the room and the 
m e e t i n g continued with limited staff attendance. 
U 
Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 
2/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

369 
2/8/71 
-2-
Staff appointment. 
The Board approved the appointment of 
William W. Layton to fill the newly-established official staff position 
of Director of Equal Employment Opportunity, Office of the Secretary, 
with annual salary at the rate of $28,000, effective upon Mr. Layton's 
assuming his duties. 
It was anticipated that he would be able to 
complete the necessary arrangements and assume his duties within 
about a month. 
Discount rate. The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Philadelphia, St. Louis, and San Francisco had acted, subject to review 
and determination by the Board of Governors, to establish a discount 
rate of 4-3/4 per cent (a reduction from the current rate of 5 per cent), 
A table was distributed showing the relationship between the 
discount rate and prevailing short-term market rates. The recent decline 
in the latter rates had caused the discount rate to be clearly out of 
alignment, and comments by the staff reflected a view that a continua-
tion of the trend in market rates was in prospect. 
It was noted that 
the Trading Desk was currently having to enter into repurchase agree-
ments at a rate well under the discount rate in order to put money out 
and that the discount rate was serving to discourage use of the window 
because member banks could adjust their positions more economically 
through other means. However, temporary deferral of a discount rate 
adjustment, if that should be the Board's decision, was not judged by 
the staff to have seriously disturbing consequences. 

370 
2/8/71 
-2-
All members of the Board were of the view that a reduction in 
the discount rate was indicated, and that the main question to be decided 
was one of timing. 
The point was raised whether a reduction of one-
quarter of a point would in fact be sufficient to avoid the appearance 
of restrictiveness, since it would not repair entirely the existing 
discrepancy between the discount rate and market rates and a further 
drop in market rates was being projected. 
It was suggested that in 
any event the circumstances favored prompt action on the discount rate, 
for with the passage of time pressure was likely to increase for a 
larger cut in the rate. Most of the members of the Board expressed the 
view that it would be prudent to continue the recent practice of making 
one-quarter point changes in the discount rate, absent exceptional 
circumstances. 
Reference also was made to the Chairman's forthcoming testimony 
before the Joint Economic Committee, with views exchanged on whether it 
would or would not be desirable to act on the discount rate before the 
date of the Chairman's appearance; and to stories that had appeared in 
the press suggesting that pressure was being exerted on the Federal 
Reserve to pursue a more expansive monetary policy and influence a fur-
ther decline in interest rates. 
Possible interpretation of a discount 
rate announcement in the light of those stories was discussed briefly. 
At the end of the discussion a majority of the members present 
indicated that, all things considered, they would be inclined to act on 

371 
2/8/71 
-2-
the discount rate promptly, but there was a tentative minority view 
(Chairman Burns and Governor Brimmer) on the side of deferring action 
for at least another week or so. Chairman Burns then suggested that 
the views of the Reserve Bank Presidents be solicited in the course of 
their comments at the Open Market Committee meeting tomorrow, and it 
was agreed that that would be done, with the expectation that the Board 
would then return to the subject later this week. 
The establishment without change by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis on January 21 and 28, by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas on January 28, by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta on February 1, and by the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York on February 4, 1971, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
! 
' i H : } • i ' 
. r ,! 
FOMC membership. 
It was understood that Governor Maisel would 
talk with Chairman Lilly of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis to 
! 
- Vi,' 
) Vs i • V. 
ascertain his views with respect to the possibility of a change in the 
normal rotation of membership on the Federal Open Market Committee to 
Permit the Presidents of the San Francisco and Kansas City Banks to serve 
as member and alternate for the year beginning March 1, 1971, since the 
appointment of a successor to Mr. Galusha as President of the Minnea-
polis Bank was not in immediate prospect. 

rap 
372 
2/8/71 
-2-
Governor Robertson withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Partee, and 
R. Solomon also withdrew. 
President's Commission. Chairman Burns reported on a visit he 
had received from Mr. Caspar Weinberger of the Office of Management and 
Budget with further regard to the financing of the work of the President's 
Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation. The Chairman said he 
had advised Mr. Weinberger of the following proposal for financial 
assistance by the Board, which proposal had been recommended by Governor 
Maisel in the light of previous Board discussion: 
1/4 share of estimated cost of publication 
$53,000 
of Commission report 
Estimated rental equivalent of space made 
available to Commission in Seattle 
Branch, Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco (over full duration of 
Commission's life) 
6,000 
Compensation and travel expenses for authors 
of four study papers already determined 
by the Board to be related to its 
responsibilities 
8,500 
$67,500 
Possible compensation and travel expenses for 
authors of additional papers that might 
be determined by the Board to be related 
to its responsibilities, up to 
10,000 
$77,500 
The Chairman also said he had told Mr. Weinberger that in his 
view the final item of $10,000 need not necessarily be considered a 
j J 

373 
2/8/71 
-2-
ceiling; if further papers were proposed that were determined by the 
Board to be related to its responsibilities, the $10,000 figure might 
be raised to $20,000 or $30,000. 
The Chairman expressed the hope that the Board would support 
him on the statement he had made to Mr. Weinberger. 
Governor Brimmer said he continued to feel that the Board should 
not go beyond the modest amounts of assistance it had already agreed to 
provide, as covered in the second and third items in the foregoing list. 
If any additional papers were proposed for underwriting by the Board, 
he would want to deal with the matter on an ad hoc basis. 
After further discussion the Board members expressed agreement 
with the statement the Chairman had made to Mr. Weinberger, Governor 
Brimmer dissenting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
